ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Centre Synergies and T.E.I., access to higher education, experimental schools, General Archives of the State and other provisions". The above bills following the decision of the Standing Committee on Formatological Affairs on a proposal from the Minister responsible are discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure in accordance with Rule 76(5) of the Constitution and Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 16 April 2019 to discuss the draft law at one to two single meetings in principle, articles and amendments. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Environment and Energy, the Deputy Ministers of Environment and Energy, as well as the Deputy Minister of Economy and Finance, tabled a draft law on 19-4-2019: "Preparation of the Concession of the Project of Study - Construction - Financing - Operation - Conservation and Operation of the New International Airport of Heraklion Crete and Study - Construction and Financing of its Roads". Referral back to the competent Standing Committee
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u3	What do you want, Mr. Javarra? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, on behalf of the New Democracy, I would like to make a statement before the opening of the procedure. You, as well as all my fellow Members, are aware, and the Minister with the relevant legislative initiative, in that a bill that aims to reshape the country's academic map and, at the same time, to make a great and great educational reform, cannot, on the contrary, be subjected to the suffering and the trial of democratic, parliamentary dialogue in comfort. Unfortunately, this democratic dialogue has already taken precedence over the urgency shown by the Minister to bring it to the debate invoking the possibility of this compressed procedure which gives him the characterisation of this bill as an urgent one. Here, therefore, democratic dialogue is basically strangled and shrunk, if not the parliamentary process is fascinated. We strongly protest! Indeed, I think we may also have a responsibility for the fact that, with our tolerance to date, we have encouraged the government to think that the House is part of the government, that Parliament has no role but to carry out administrative, bureaucratic and administrative drafts so that now by taking the seal and signing that they have been voted on and put into effect. That's not a democracy, though. This is not a parliamentary democracy. This is something else to which we awefully look and express our fear that the democratic parliamentary institutions in Greece are no longer working.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u5	Okay, you made your statement, it sounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u6	No 'all right'. You'll let me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u7	You don't speak now. You make a statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u8	'All right' cannot be said to a parliamentary representative. "Okay" let it say where you think it works. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Listen, I'm never going to take it personally. Stop, respect democracy. You have become the club for discussions and for the production of resolutions. So listen, Mr President. If you wish, and I suggest it to the Minister too, there is another way, which I would now suggest to you because it is a way to remove all prerogatives. You can use a creative interpretation of the Rules of Procedure to bring these bills you want to be voted on in accordance with the procedure of the resolutions. To bring this House a resolution without any debate, to use the majority that you have along with all these willing men who have with you, and finally, to avoid fraud and delusion that within Parliament there is a legislative function. Legislative function on SYRIZA Government has been brought to an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u9	We have lived through democracy in the "Athena" project. We experienced her very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u10	You're the president. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u11	Inadmissibles won't be heard here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u12	Get down on SYRIZA's seat and say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u13	There will be no such expressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u14	Your way is unacceptable. It is incomprehensible that the President-in-Office should be present in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u15	Did you understand what my colleague said? Do you understand what he said, Mr. Bourra?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u16	President you are, you are not a party master.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u17	I know exactly what I am.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u18	Respect your role!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u19	To make a speech in this Chamber on resolutions? Don't go ahead with your mental tongue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u22	Now I'm tempted. We have a reversal. What SYRIZA did, when New Democracy and PASOK brought in an emergency one after another, is now being done by New Democracy, which SYRIZA copied the previous ones and brought back under the same procedure. So there is no point in this controversy. You did the same you did, too, who blamed them at the time. What is the substance, in our opinion? First of all, it's terrible that it's coming at the Great Week. It's unacceptable. It has been done by all the governments, and by the SYRIZA government, by all the education bills, to come either in the summer or to such days when the schools and universities are closed. That's why he's coming now. That is unacceptable and condemned by everyone. Secondly, as far as the procedure is concerned, we also disagreed with the Conference of Presidents and said that one day it is not enough and there is a second one, namely tomorrow. Of course, that will also depend on the speakers. At the end of the day, the President said we will see and look at this. We suggest it. Nevertheless, our position is that this bill should be withdrawn. No one supports it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u23	What you are saying now is essentially.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u24	I'm done. You don't have to comment. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u25	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u27	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u28	Because the JRC spokesman said that the essence is that it sucks and comes Great Week, I didn't know that she was so religious to the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u29	What are you talking about? Is that a answer? Are you kidding us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u30	But please! Is this a place you're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u31	I said the schools are closed. Don't you hear? Nor will it be irony for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Paphie, you said your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u33	But only ironically can this be handled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u34	Don't you hear? You should go to an ovulatingologist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u35	No, I heard very well. Look, first of all, I don't understand why this tension. Easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u36	So you don't twist what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Paphie, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u38	But you talked about the Great Week, that's why. Firstly, I am pleased that the representative of the New Democracy accepts that there is a bill here that completes the re-drafting of the Charter of Higher Education and that there is a long time for education reform. We agree on both.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u39	"He's claiming" I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u40	Minister, we're talking about the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u41	Can I tell you something? When opposition says that dialogue is strangled and the parliamentary procedure is fascinated, such comments do not help, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u42	You're the ones who started!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Kikilia, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u44	Refer to the Minutes two minutes ago. Mr Javarras said that and I agree with him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u45	I said "Philosophical". You don't pay attention to all the words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u46	Look, Mr. Javarra. In September 2017, this is a year and a half ago, I called my office all the parties, each separately - your party's representative - came to see the issue of the third grade and the new way of entering universities. We have all called them, heard their views, and the KIC came, all the parties separately. Only Mrs. Gennamas saw in her office here. Since September 2017 only Potami has sent specific opinions on specific proposals. Why has no proposal been sent since September 2017? Is this a tripartite dialogue? Second, we have been voting for a year and a half for similar bills: University of West Attica, Ionian, Ioannina, Thessaly, University of Athens. Why now that incredible tension, can you tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u47	That's why the bill, Minister! Do you see it? And it's back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u48	Look, the image does play a very big role in the public speech. But you know? The image must also have content. Let go of these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u49	A picture of a thousand words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u50	Look, your problem is that it's big? You should have asked us to send you some assistants to help you read.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u51	What are you talking about? It's Maria Antoinette's stop: You don't have bread, eat pancake!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Hatzidakis, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u53	Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u54	But it's an insult to the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Hatzidakis, these pages...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u56	It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Hatzidakis, is this a process now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u58	Is it a procedure, Mr President, 'Take assistants to read a thousand hundred pages'? He's ironing us, and he's abusing us!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u59	That's another thing the Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u60	First of all, I'm not insulting you. Listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u61	Where do you think you are?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u62	In Parliament. Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Kikilia, where do you think you are?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u64	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u65	Are you telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u66	Yes, of course, you. Where do you think you are? Where do you think you're presiding like this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u67	You have reason not to be calm seems to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u68	All right, the show, Santa!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u69	And you've read a thousand hundred pages! Liar! Hypocrite!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u70	Do you know how much of this was in public consultation and how long? You who didn't read that? 'Cause now I need you to answer me. Why was that in consultation, understand? So don't make any impressions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u71	Just one third, Minister, say it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u72	Please. It's not how it works, we've got a whole day ahead of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u73	These are done when you choose these methods.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u74	Ma'am, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u75	You know, if the arguments scare you, you'll have every chance to say that. So what I'm telling you is that, first, we have voted the same architecture for many other universities and TEI. Do you remember the Ionian, Yannina, Thessaly, the University of Athens, the Agricultural, the University of Western Attica?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u76	So we don't talk in the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u77	No, we'll talk until the end of the fall. But we will also talk a little about why today there is such a great deal of tension. Because the architecture is it and it is completed since, in the meantime, we have been in consultation for High School III since September 2017. Since September 2017 we have been asking and asking again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u78	You're changing places every week!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u79	Well, I think your objection has been recorded. I understand that there is an objection, which I do not understand very much, but there is one. I suggest we continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u80	I would like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u81	Mr Javarra, please facilitate the procedure and if you can avoid those phrases you have used. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u82	He asked two questions. You will see that I will be brief, Mr President. You'll see I'll be mild and answer that. Firstly, he told me that I agree with the Minister for Educational Reform, Great and Splendid as I said. I said that this bill is 'faithful' and obviously has not achieved it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u83	We will see these in the next debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u84	Wait a minute. The second is that what really amazes me, as Minister of a government that has the confidence of the House, is that it takes away all the seriousness, importance and functioning of the criticism of the bill, invoking the long time of consultation. The House is not a body involved in the consultation, the parliament is the sovereign expression of the state, which implements popular sovereignty and discusses by its own means and decides again in a specific way whether what went through the consultation deserves to be the law of the state, Minister. That is what I am really sorry about. I did not expect a democrat minister to oppose what I told you. Because the dialogue here may have the ambition to take place until a final fall, but it is so limited that it is not just for a fall, but also for a mere intensity, which is needed to conflict the opposite arguments in a parliamentary procedure, because many times - and I recognise it personally - you have received information from the opposition's arguments, from the opposition's objections, and you have corrected something that you had not predicted or had it unwisely or misguidedly proposed to legislate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u85	Well, I say that the process will go ahead and we will see whether we need to implement the decision of the Conference of Presidents in the way it is formulated. That is why the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Friend, has. Please also open the speaker's record system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u86	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the plan we are debating today completes the first cycle of the necessary institutional reform in education, which we step by step - in the adverse conditions of the memorandum, by rectifying the validity of public education in response to the agony and expectations of young children and their families. We sought consent, without overlooking the understandable ideological and political differences. We have sought this with the conclusion of the Committee on National and Social Dialogue for Education, chaired by Professor Antonis Liakou, as well as with the work done by the Committee on Morphic Affairs of the House with the President at that time, the current Minister, Mr Gavroglou, because we believe that education, health and social welfare, which are the backbone of the social state and the conditions for the development of society, constitute what is called common good and we must preserve it from the veteran party confrontation. We have seen images, I fear, of such a sterile confrontation. I don't pretend I don't hear the objections about the procedure. There are many times pleasing objections. It's usually done. However, we must say that there is a limit to this frequent and persistent debate on the procedure, and that limit is that we must also go to the main issues. The Multilateral Plan completes the necessary interventions in the field of secondary education, as well as arrangements for the establishment of the single area of higher education and research. The success of these changes requires a social consensus climate, but also material support from the state is needed and, as we try to get out of the general crisis and austerity in a clear development with social justice, increasing state funding in education. We have already moved from this year to massive appointments to education: Fifteen thousand in total over this three-year period and from them four and a half thousand this year for the first time permanent appointments to special education. In tertiary education we have created five hundred new IPA posts, a thousand five hundred positions for academic experience, and three hundred outgoing posts will be completed every year due to university retire ment. Finally, the deforestation of universities by staff. I would remind you that our government also saved the education from bankruptcy, condemned by the Samara - Venizelos government, which in the medium term had anticipated less than EUR 1 billion in relation to what we have given. Also, for the first time on SYRIZA, research expenditure increased, reaching 1% of GDP. And these overthrows that create a positive perspective for education would not be possible if the economy with the great sacrifices of Greek citizens did not come out of the harsh commemorative coercives. Even if the government did not have a strategic choice, even in the dark of the memorials, to keep hope alive through progress in education. For democratic reform in education, it is a necessary condition for us to get out of the crisis, without repeating the mistakes of the past, with social justice, humanitarian education, with a school that responds to the educational, pedagogical, psychological needs of the child, whose focus is today's child and adolescent, the so-called 'growth of the Internet', which highlights the need for a new way of democratic functioning of school and social inclusion. And all this, building an educational system linked to the economy and the labour market, but not subordinate to a market perception of education. Ladies and gentlemen, the heart of the bill is the upgrading of high school and the limitation of stress that stigmatizes the lives of today's teenagers in their attempt to get into higher education. First, who disputes that high school today, and in particular High school III, is detested to the conscience of children, as the content of the courses is far from the central aim of children for admission to HEIs? We all know that high school life has turned into a hypocrisy. This is not about the heroic effort of teachers. This is an objective fact which, unfortunately, limits the efforts of teachers. This hypocrisy also crumbles the morality of many teachers, since they feel they cannot mobilize the interest of students and students with what their state entrusts them to teach. Therefore, we must give the Third High School a substantial character, because, among other things, a domino has been created that affects all classes in high school, and even the Second, where we have early school phenomena. Secondly, second grade is dealt with by the bill only as a general education class, which is not currently the case. The guidance courses referred to in the future import examinations are being abolished and therefore they encourage children to enter the preconditioning climate early on. Thirdly, for the first time, there is the possibility of introducing into a pan-Hellenic-organised examination, only conditional on the removal of the diploma in certain schools, which is a first step towards the future extension of this possibility. It is also important that this measure is in the same direction as the introduction of free access for graduates of vocational education to two-yearly structures of HEIs. Fourthly, the third grade includes courses all relevant, both for the dismissal and for the process of introduction to higher education. There's no lesson in less interest. Of course, without being explained, and without reasonable arguments, the lesson of the religious ones in the third grade is maintained. This, however, is another priest gospel. By the way, Minister, I would like to ask, with the qualifications of studies where the religion is maintained, what are you going to do? All Greek citizens do not have a religion in their identity. Why do our children have to have a religion in the subjects of study, Minister? Fifth, not this year, but from the new year it will be taken into account for the introduction to the HEIs and the degree of dismissal, after the confidence in its objectivity has been established. Sixth, classes in the 3rd grade will be taught six hours a week, without the material being overcrowded, in order to have a comfortable time in teaching. Within the programme of the 3rd grade, there is also a separate time for cooperation between teachers and pupils to deepen, resolve queues and practice. It's a groundbreaking institution. We believe that with the new III high school system and the new system of admission to the HEI, on the one hand, we attribute the educational character to high school and on the other, households are relieved from the economic bleeding of the care centres, which is estimated at EUR 2 billion a year. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the criticism that general education is downgrading with the new high school. This is a misunderstanding or a deliberate falsification of our proposals. First of all, the deterioration in general education is currently taking place in high school with the full education of outside schools as a whole. Secondly, there is also international experience, according to which the courses of the last class are identical to the courses of examinations, dismissals or introductorys. Let's study it. Thirdly, in this system of exotic courses, the bill provides as an understated lesson, therefore an exotic lesson in Greek language, which, as you know, is a lesson that approaches issues of more general interest, cultural and topicality and identity for young children. In other words, someone who wants to go to any school, to medicine, for example, or to the polytechnic, is obliged to take six hours new Greek and language. This is a real upgrade of the general education of high school - and not of the words - and of secondary education as a whole. When we talk about general education, we cannot only talk about the multiple cognitive objects that cover all or many levels. General education is the education that covers the multiple objectives of education. In this sense, it is important to teach various types of writing and knowledge on various subjects that contribute to the creation of democratic and active citizens, that is to say, to cultivating values and attitudes inspired by the principles of democracy, equality and ecology. Pedagogical factors also know that the villa is more effective than a thousand lectures and in this sense general education is also the cultivation of horizontal skills and competences, which concern all areas of knowledge and life. There are many things left for the school that we are planning, such as systematic professional orientation, education on certain issues, including parents and local institutions, the renewal of the institution of student communities as a cell of democratic participation at a time when atomicism, anti-political and extreme right intolerance, which we have seen recently, are attempting to infiltrate into schools and distort the genuine patriotic feeling of children in nationalist hatred and xenophobia. The central, however, bet on the school of general education is the modernization of curricula and books by establishing methods of teaching that give students an active role, evaluation based more on synthetic and creative work, i.e. evaluation more qualitative than quantitative. This school we are planning and wanting a step - a step from now on, without wasting time, with the greatest possible consensus, to move forward. As far as the other provisions are concerned, I am keeping the consent of the majority of university bodies with some reservations about university and TEI synergies, the proposal from the TEI to upgrade the engineering departments with the participation of two representatives of the committee accepted by the Minister. I would point out that the proposed new system for the recognition of professional qualifications, which is good, must take into account the eighteen thousand current college students. A solution is perhaps - and it will be discussed in dialogue - the transition of the ESA by 2022, when the current student cycle is completed. The draft law lacks provisions for the EDPS. It is about a thousand workers at universities that all have doctoral and certain teaching orders, but they are not recognized in this regard. This injustice causes a mess that needs to be addressed. Ladies and gentlemen, two and a half years ago, in September 2016, we had the only debate in the House on education to date. Already in May 2016, Mr. Mitsotakis had announced the abolition of the full-time school, while the press-friendly press predicted that the government would close thousands of classes in kindergartens and primary schools. Of course, none of Mr Mitsotakis' cassantisms were confirmed. They were opposition bricks and horns, completely thrown out. So what happened then? Instead of the previous chaos, regularity. For the first time after many years all schools everywhere worked normally, from the first day, with their necessary staff and books. Instead of a whole-strong zero, the most incompetent post-multiple government, such as Mr. Mitsotakis likes to characterize it, took it perfectly. A big achievement that had to be self-evident, but it wasn't. It was, however, because it was repeated last year and before the Ministry’s new leadership. And so now we can talk about an inspiring regularity. That is why we warn the students and parents: If you want the normality and a quality public school of knowledge and democratic equality, do not allow the re-establishment of the status of authoritarianism, the reduced budgets for education, the anointedness with the abolition of the rule one goes away, one coming from our Government and its replacement from rule five are leaving, one that comes more troika than the New Democracy has adopted. Do not allow the New Democracy to do its reactionary, neoliberal conception in favour of the schools of the few, the schools of the aristocratic elites, against the public school, the school of many of whom we defend, its perception of inequality as a natural option, the conversion of pupils into customers for schools - businesses, which in the neoliberal vocabulary are renamed to "instructoral skills providers". It is Mr Mitsotakis himself, who at the tenth conference of the New Democracy called the students 'clients' and thus the education of 'goods'. You knock a very wrong door, gentlemen of the New Democracy, when you exhaust the inventiveness of your programme for education in how you will implant into the minds of children, as a supreme value, the idea that society will always be made up of bosses and submissives, of fathers and plebes, of "excellent" and "successful". So if you were given the opportunity, you would have put the teaching of entrepreneurship even from the nursery. Because this concept or rather the social class position you express is the supreme social value to you. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, an equation downwards but also the opposite of excellence is: Do not act in the years of fat cows, the two-year-old pre-school education which we have been implementing since this year. To operate two or more types of kindergartens and primary schools, instead of a single formula that we have established, in general, the institution of the full day's school. To be subjected to examinations at all classes and no additional teaching support is available, which returns. Not so many years of review, modernisation and adaptation of school books, which is happening nowadays at the Institute of Education Policy. To have the lesson of the Religious homologous, dogmatic and not to apply the new programs of the Religious which we have now introduced are normally taught, regardless of the reactions raised by the known circles, which must be done boldly and in the history of which the new curriculum for all classes has already been drawn up. There should be no psychologists in schools, which we predicted and promoted this year by teams of schools in about a thousand cities. There's no theme week. There should be no opening-up of school to modern considerations and searches for outlets of youth pressing problems, such as dependencies, depression, meaninglessness, bowling and the problems of a generation lost many times in the virtual world of the internet and social media. To be regarded as schools of a lower god as the schools of Special Education, the schools that SYRIZA generally supported as much as anything else, setting up forty new schools and five hundred seventy branches of integration and doubling their duties with thousands of placements of assistants and scientific assistants. To be the PSAs the backyard of education rather than the upgraded PSAs that we created before with our colleague, Mr Vaxebanakis, and now with my colleague, Mrs Jufi, with a rich programme, with apprenticeships for the first time in enterprises and with incentives to introduce into universities and the two-year university technical education programmes. Identify standards and experimental methods and be unable to understand that experimentation involves a differentiated level of students and not horse race training, and when Baltas points this out, you can spread him through the lousy retreat of excellence. You must not have made any preparations for the education of the applicants, which this government has done since zero when your right-wing, but also your self-government actors, gentlemen of the New Democracy, have lifted Ookastras and walls of exclusion, racism and intolerance. Not even a school meal has been given to degraded schools for your days and those who denounced child malnutrition in the years of the crisis must be taken into account. And that's what SYRIZA did in nine hundred and fifty-four municipal schools, over a hundred and fifty thousand children. And when with the Greek people's vote in the autumn we become government again, we will extend it to five hundred thousand children. Have reduced the education budget for five years 2010-2014, as foreseen by the medium-term government of Samaras - Venizelos. And another reduction: One billion less for education for 2018, 2019 and the next years than our Government is giving today so that you can promise tax reliefs and gifts to your rich friends, the fewer and the big owners. Stand, without pretext, with the owners of private schools and care. To abolish every control of the state in these schools and to form the employment relationships of the jungle in private schools and in schools, which we overturned together with the movement of private teachers of OELE, bringing back to the Ministry of Education the supervision of private education. Preparing in the name of a so-called free parental selection the coupons in education, i.e. funding with public money from private schools and the formation and in the public sector of schools of many speeds, with well-paid and badly punished by sub-funding and staff cuts and with poor parents playing LOT and trying to find a place for their child not in their neighborhood as today, but in the considered schools of the finest. To raise the positions of universities in international rankings and you to denounce and discredit the public university as a man of violence, illegality and drug trafficking - we also heard Mr Mitsotakis yesterday - by magnifying existing problems and diseases. To hide the evidence, for example, the investigation of PAMAK, the University of Macedonia, which showed that the incidents of lawlessness in your universities over your days and with the abolition of asylum, were more than that in our own government with asylum to return. For example, with PAMAK’s survey data, we had ninety-six cases of violence in 2012, thirty-nine in 2013, seventy-seven in 2014. And then, on SYRIZA, a clear reduction despite the reinstatement of asylum: thirty one in 2015, thirty one in 2016, forty-six in 2017. Have shrunk your political speech in education into a goal, in a pursuit: transform the degraded colleges of Canigos and the northern suburbs into universities without any academic condition. Universities in euphemism. It is metabolised IEC at the bottom of the international rankings. Their recognition and revocation at universities are the aim of the New Democracy and of Mr.Mitsotakis personally, who, in a role of interest, is fighting to ensure that they are given customers. This is behind the attack of the New Democracy on Article 16 and on the idea of private HEI. On the contrary to excellence, it is still to have done nothing about the brain fleeing and instead of saying "bravo", attacking Mr. Fotakis who set up the ELDEK, ELIDEK with the funding of EUR 270,000,000 and the programs that they give to thousands of doctors and postdoctors to stay and create in our country. Stay in words and have done nothing to strengthen innovative entrepreneurship, and now we have the activities of the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology with EUR 500,000,000, the "EREGO, DIMUROVO", with EUR 360,000,000, six hundred five research projects, four thousand four hundred new quality jobs, the establishment and operation of the Business Participation Fund to create a start-up business. I could speak for hours and list all your work in education, gentlemen of the New Democracy. In the Minutes, however, I put forward a list of ninety-two actions, which are our work on education, on the reverse of your own practice. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also ask Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Kerameos present: What will you do away with if a miracle brings you to power? For many, Mr. Mitsotakis has said he will abolish all the laws of Balta, Phil and Gavroglou. So, all the things I mentioned or any of them? And the hundred and ninety-two changes or some of them? We want an answer and not a sterile procedural controversy. No, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, as much catastrophe as take news and if you are being recruited, you will not eradicate from the conscience of the Greek people a truth: This government in very difficult budgetary conditions has presented a very important project in the field of education in the four years that passed. Not only did he keep the education upright, but he armed it with new conquests and possibilities and unfolded an integrated plan of interventions, tombs and reforms that literally changed the landscape of education, from preschool education to research, from kindergarten to high school and higher education, which we are debating today, from the bottom up with a plan, bold and vision, the school of quality and equality. And this project can proceed with a new momentum in the new four-year left-wing governance. This momentum also prescribes the multiplier plan under discussion. This momentum will be decisively strengthened by the Greek people's vote in the European elections, in the municipal and regional elections in October, giving SYRIZA the victory and the first place. On this determination we will build an even more stable, new generation of reforms and changes in the next four years in education, in the social state, in the economy, everywhere, where Greek citizens live and create, the people of work and the youth of our country. For Greece that we deserve, for Greece of many, for the Europe of the peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty-three students and students and seven school attendants from the Schools of Phrygiotis Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Kerameau, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like today to focus on the six truths resulting from this bill and its debate so far within the parliamentary procedure. Really first. SYRIZA doesn't want the dialogue. The bill we are debating today is a thousand hundred and twenty - twenty - six articles. He was tabled to the House at midnight to be discussed in the Committee on Educational Affairs next noon. Ladies and gentlemen, with the hand of the heart, how far could these thousands of hundred and twenty pages be read in about five hours' time at our disposal for the first reading? Man impossible, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Of course, according to the SYRIZA rapporteur, the time available for studying the bill is simply a question of procedure, as he told us in the Committee on Forum on Education. However, at the second meeting, at the hearing of the non-parliamentary bodies, the government's anti-democratic practices also emerged. The Government has made efforts, in the first instance, by intervening with the proposed bodies and, at the last minute, by removing some who were not friends with her and the government plans to set up the debate on its measures. Example one. We are talking about the radical reorder of the country's academic map and the government - listen, listen! - excluded the last moment, while it had been proposed by all parties, the president of the country's pre-elects meeting, who had occasionally disagreed with the Minister's plans. What if it represents all the universities in the country? I put Mr Zora's complaint in the Minutes, chairing the Committee on Budgets. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Representatives of the merged institutions in distant parts of Greece, such as western Macedonia, were called by fax for a meeting the next morning, so they obviously see the fax in the morning and cannot attend. The dean of Western Macedonia's TEI wrote features in the Committee of Parliament and I read it from inside: "I want to believe you know that public services still do not work in Greece at night. So you knew that the fax you sent would be received by the competent services on the morning of the next day and would be sent to the dean about the time you asked us to be in Athens and in Parliament. And we," says the dean of Western Macedonia's TEI, Minister, "know the corresponding methods of not inviting undesirable people, but make sure we keep the pretext more." I put the letter in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When a body disagreed with him, his principal minister was making detestable speech at the end of the bullying, such as the dean of the National Technical University, where he reached the point of saying - listen, listen! - he doesn't know arithmetic! Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister is evangelizing consents, which he means in his own way. In what way? It seeks consensus with anyone who agrees with him. When the chatter disagrees with him, consensus goes for a walk. Different views are ignored provocatively and decisions are taken by the political leadership first. Really second. SYRIZA abolishes the technological field of education contrary to international trends. While the trend internationally is to strengthen the technological field of education at all levels, we in Greece of SYRIZA also innovate here, abolishing the TEIs and devaluing the PES. Elimination and merging, without predetermined academic criteria, without feasibility and viability studies, without taking into account the results of the evaluation without guaranteeing professional rights. Higher institutions in the university and technological field are at risk of losing the authority they have acquired internationally over the past decades. And these actions actually lead to parts of mortality. For the numerous new departments, you are announcing that they will be strengthened by human and financial resources, which do not exist, while, on the other hand, existing strong academic units are not available to cover significant and urgent gaps, thereby threatening the level of study. With regard to the multipliering of the Departments of Engineering, again with automated and centrally controlled processes, you create another wound to the existing issue of professional rights. Instead of solving, Minister, the problem, you are producing even greater confusion about the professional rights of technicians of TEIs, creating an unprecedented and incredibly vague field. And while all the experts, the Polytechnics and the Technical Chamber, are talking about grading technical responsibility and I submit their views in the minutes, you follow the logic of height - depth. Full or no rights, without a plan, without a strategy, in a reasonable professional inflation, in a country which suffers from youth unemployment. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to refer to the situation in which the ESDPs come. Ladies and gentlemen, with the unregulated and unreasonable abolition of TEIs, an important gap is created in the technological field of higher education and in the applications of science and technology in the respective professional fields. A gap not covered by the two-year curriculum for PES graduates. Traditional schools are lost and departments are unified, so lessons are lost and students are not taught objects covered by their professional rights. Students already studying in PSAs in specific qualifications, where there will no longer be relevant sections in the higher institutions, what will they do, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Have you taken care of anything? I guess not. Ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to doing everything in our power to restore the technological character of education, at all its levels and to strengthen those features that make it a pillar of development and a unique opportunity for progress for modern societies and economies. Really third. The government redeploys the country's academic map, without a strategic plan, without real consent, on the basis of political blackmail. I think it has been made clear in society that all these abolitions of institutions, mergers and the creation of new ones are not part of any integrated project and, furthermore, it is not a product of consensus. Minister, University of Patras, opposite. I'll submit it to the Minutes. University of Peloponnese opposite and even two convention sessions held in two consecutive days. Why is it, Minister, when the court had already decided, that it was decided again the next day? I'll submit it to the Minutes. University of Crete opposite. Aristotle University of Thessaloniki opposite. National Technical University opposite. All relevant decisions in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Where did consensus go, Minister? The truth is, you only have one goal with this bill. The vote. While the re-order you are trying is determined by occasional conciliation in the context of transactions that reach the limits of political blackmail, as proved most eloquently at the meetings of the committee. What's the truth, ladies and gentlemen? The truth is, Minister, that nothing comes out of you anymore. Behind the genocide of consensus, your arrogant and extortionist behaviour towards prefectures, members of the Academy, no longer passes. They stand up and make decisions against you, and that makes you lose control, because you, Minister, cannot withstand criticism, you cannot stand the dialogue, you cannot stand the opposite view. You are, after all, the holder of the only absolute truth. Fortunately for our country, you won't be for much government yet! I would like to highlight, ladies and gentlemen, the research centres in the country, which we also see multiplying unnecessarily. The Minister does not only reorientate the country's academic map without strategic planning, but also the country's research map. Unfortunately, as with the higher institutions, and with research bodies, with the establishment of university research centres, structures are being created which do not fall within the scope of an integrated research project. They are not based on the existing legal framework for research. They strengthen fragmentation, instead of synergies, and finally strengthen introvertivity, contrary to international trends. All this, in the ordinary practice of the government, with unnecessarily waste, as it requires new resources from state funding. In short, exercises on paper, but at an incalculable cost for the Greek taxpayer. We, ladies and gentlemen, seek to draw up a national strategic plan for development, for higher education and for research. We believe deep in substantial synergies. We believe in the integration of the powers of higher institutions and research centres, for the benefit of scientific excellence, research, society, the national economy. We consider it crucial to reorientate the academic map, but this reorder must go hand in hand with the needs of society and the labour market. I'm really fourth. SYRIZA is channelling his ideoscopy and into the system of introduction to higher education. The proposed system raises serious issues of equivalence. And I would like to explain: The issues for the examinations will be dealt with by local teams of teachers. Therefore, from Kilkis to Kassos and from Mytilini to Corfu - accidental references, apparently - the difficulty of issues may be different and this dismissal will count from time to time for introduction to higher education. All this, why? Because you're saying no to the matter bank. Because, as the Minister, Mrs. Jufi, told us, the institution had failed. That is a levelling-up logic here too. Even if it has not been implemented, as it should have been, do we all agree that this is an institution which ensures a uniform degree of difficulty? Do we agree that this is the point? I think so. Then why don't we fix the institution's problems? Instead, you are promoting a system which raises major issues of equality, as the degree of dismissal will be taken into account in the import molecules in tertiary education. On the one hand, issues of isology with the different degrees of difficulty in the context of the dismissal. On the other hand, two-speed graduation, as PSA students will have a different certificate, with which they will not have access to free access schools. But also this separation between free access schools and schools after examinations, how deeply ideological is it, Minister? You are actually establishing the categorisation of schools in those who have increased prestige and those who are completely deceived. As of course, it is your opposition to classic letters. And this one in your ideology. You did so by abolishing the ancient Greeks from the high school exams, you did so by removing the emblematic texts of the ancient Greek secretariat from the curriculum, and you now do so by abolishing the Latin from the pan-Hellenic examinations. We will seek to upgrade and strengthen the autonomous pedagogical role of high school and the existence of a strong dismissal in the context of equality and objectivity. Really fifth. SYRIZA gives the charismatic shot to the standards and experimental schools. We must of course recognise here, Minister, that as far as standards and experimental schools are concerned you have at least shown a remarkable consistency. It was your first law on education in 2015, when you start dismantling these schools and now, at the end of your term, you are finishing them. Part of your ideology and this measure. Criminalization of excellence. Everyone equals, but equals how? Down. Therefore, they are islands of excellence, these islands of innovation, standards and experimental schools, are a brake on your plans. With the present you remove the freedom and autonomy of these schools. You shall transfer the responsibilities of their Supervisory Board, the Management Committee, to the Ministry of Education. All of this in your well-known trend of overconcentration. The more powers over you, the better. We, ladies and gentlemen, will restore their autonomy and freedom. We will strengthen these islands of excellence and innovation in every way and we are committed to establishing a model and an experimental school in every regional unit of the country. Really sixth. SYRIZA ideologically continues to fight private education. Amid academic year, you are dismantling the recognition of professional equivalence of graduate colleges in Greece, in violation of Union law, where the Scientific Service of the Parliament, Minister, draws you attention. The Scientific Service of the Parliament is problematic about what we told you in committee and a huge legal insecurity is being created to thousands of students and college graduates who have made a conscious choice, stay in Greece and study in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, any problems that exist in the context of the recognition of professional rights are not solved by abolishing the existing regulations on one side and, more importantly, without taking into account the requirements of Union law. We are going to recognise professional equivalence in a way that is compatible with Union law. I'm closing, Your Honor. For everything we have said during the debate in committee over the last two days and today, but also for what we have not been given time to talk about, we are also asking for this last hour, the withdrawal of the bill. If anything, Minister, I would not sleep very well at night when you have all the opposition parties to you. Everyone disagrees with you. Isn't that what you're worried about? We are therefore committed to society as a whole that we will do everything in our power, without surprise, in order to restore the enormous damage that this government has caused to the education system as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too. Mr. Gregos from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u91	I'm sorry, Mr. Grego. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, I wanted to speak on something purely pragmatic, it is not a matter of opinion. Look, on the issues of the call decisions - pragmatically clear, it is not a matter of opinion - to make it clear that there has been an inaccuracy in what my colleague said. In other words, the University of Patras voted unanimously for the law, for the sake of agronomics and...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u93	Twenty-three to ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Javarra, would you like to come here and take my place?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u95	Please, Mr. Javarra, don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u96	If you want, with great pleasure, really. Let me finish. [[Laughers from the New Republic ward]] I didn't hear the joke. But I realized it's rather a success. You said he'd be here in four months? I didn't know Mr. Javaras was going to be Minister of Education. The parentheses are closing here. So, the University of Patras...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, the Minister should answer his time!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u98	A clarification he wants to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u99	They're not clarifications, they're answers complete!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u100	Of course, in an inaccurate situation, because it seems that your representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u101	Respect for the congressman!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u102	The University of Patras unanimously for Law, unanimously for the Agronomical, unlike for the other sections, regardless of the fact that some schools were for, some against. The project is a whole, as you take it, so the consensus on the other schools must also be taken into account. It's a political assessment. Secondly, the same is true of the University of Peloponnese: it was unanimously for all, except for the issue of the three departments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u103	What do you say, Minister? What are you talking about? You're corrupting the data completely.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u104	All right, we'll testify to the Minutes in a few minutes. What's the big deal? Mrs Kerameo says that Crete, the National Technical University and the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki have opposing views. I don't understand. It's a bill that doesn't concern them. I don't understand what kind of decisions these are. Politically against the bill? Explains. But I would like to tell you, in order not to cause any problems, that it is not something that concerns these universities. In the rest, which also concerns them, all decisions are positive. That's what I'm saying to rehabilitate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u105	Mrs. Keramea has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u106	In relation to the University of Patras, I do not know what the Minister says, what I tabled to the Minutes and not given to me now, is the call for the present draft law. That is what the senate's decision is about, currently draft law. The decision says that it is twenty-three ‘against’ of the bill and ten ‘in favour’. Let's be clear. There was a call for this draft law. You said - and I have listened with great interest - that it is none of their business. The University of Crete, Minister, rejected your proposal to absorb the TEI of Crete. Isn't that relevant? Thirdly, does the Polytechnic, which currently has too many graduate engineers, not concern it with the question of the professional rights of engineers? We think so. If you think that the dean does not know arithmetic and that what he says does not matter, then the Greek people judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u107	Please, Mr Grego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u108	In any case, the bill started too badly in committees. About seventy - five had been invited to attend. Eventually, thirty - five came and spoke little. We have denounced the urgency procedure, a process that of course continues in this bill. We especially feel that you are bringing in another bill - education bill - the Great Week, that is, the Passion Week. It's not just because the schools are closed, as the KIC says, but it's mostly annoying us. We denounce the procedure. And today's process here with the voices between SYRIZA and New Democracy is for the eyes of the world, of course. Other amendments have been tabled, several and irrelevant, of course. We will not, of course, have time to talk about them. It's your tactic. I have an answer to the SYRIZA rapporteur, because he said there is a risk in schools. He obviously meant Golden Dawn. Let me inform him that both in schools and in universities and generally in youth is the Golden Dawn. It is deeply rooted within the Greek youth now and that is very pleasant. Your program, your bills, are aimed at SYRIZA's small number of youths, which has clear and clear vulnerabilities. Golden Dawn has a curriculum for education. I'll give it to you later, if I can get it to you. But the leading proposal - and I shall begin with it - is the immediate abolition of asylum, asylum, criminals and murderers in the field of universities. Of course you once said that these criminals, these killers, all these criminals, are treated with a perverse student movement. What can I say? Anyway, these are incredible things. At some point I fear that we will mourn human life and some must also pay for it, and of course the party groups will be abolished in all these institutions. We appreciate that this is the latest bill of SYRIZA's unwilling government and we are very pleased with it. First of all, congratulations to SYRIZA, who once again brought a bill that fully follows his line on all the main issues relating to the equalisation of education and the betrayal of our national ideals, the promotion of their own people in key positions and, of course, the uninterrupted work of the country's equalisation. At first level, as regards the levelling-up of education, since technical education in the country is completely degraded, the Minister of Education had the seeming idea of completely eliminating the TEIs, merging them with the TEIs. In simple terms, it's only unfair that TEIs are downgraded. Let us degrade the entire primary education, let us degrade the universities. Not only do HEIs and TEIs equate, but they do so in a completely unorganised and impulsive way, without taking into account the financial possibilities, the availability of educational staff, infrastructure, cognitive objects and much more. Of course we should place particular emphasis on the point of engineers - we have also told the committee - as the engineering sector is downgraded and exterminated, when most engineers in that country have either left abroad or are in debt due to excessive contributions to the state or most are unemployed. At second level, as regards the betrayal of national ideals, in the wake of the treacherous Prespecies Agreement, the government is moving towards the integration of the Central and Eastern Macedonia TEIs at the International University of Greece, which, incidentally, is taking place in English, but this seems not to be particularly concerned with the Minister of Education. So what is the government doing? It looks forward to the disappearance of the term "Macedonia" by the educational institutions of the country and emphasises the operation of the International Fund for the Development of Vocational Training, of course with a view to attracting students from neighbouring countries who are not so friendly to Greece, such as Skopje, Turkey, Albania and others. Regarding the issue of the service of small-party interests, it is truly worth wondering why in a bill on education there are so many provisions on the General Archives of the State. In fact, the qualifications of those employed in positions of this service are minimal. It is good to create jobs and support services, but recruitment should be done in a transparent and open manner and, of course, the necessary qualifications should be recorded, otherwise it is a risk to certain people with purely party criteria, which you are accustomed to doing in every bill. Finally, as far as the part of Islam is concerned - although a heavy title is not exaggerated at all - in a bill relating to education, in a specific article, in Article 222, to the end of the bill - it does not draw attention - to the payment of imam, the priest of the Islamic mosque, which is equivalent to the remuneration of a university professor, around EUR 32 000 per year. In other words, a priest of a religion unknown to the Greek people - with the exception of few exceptions - receives a salary higher than a army officer who puts his life on the front line for the defense of the country, from a teacher who forms the new generation of Greeks, from all professions that really help to support this country. The above points crystallize SYRIZA's view of education, a education clearly resurrected, unjust, which enemys everything that is good, nice and true, which enemys excellence and merit, which hosts the very essence of knowledge. Of course the Golden Dawn is against this bill. We have said so in committee too. We will also vote against this bill. As soon as I can, I shall refer to the articles. Articles 6 to 12 concern technological institutions and the term ‘Macedonia’. They cease to exist as independent departments and join the IPAC. The first element, therefore, is the leftover in these provisions. Of course we are voting against it. Articles 13 to 22 provide for the integration of the TEI of Western Macedonia into the University of Western Macedonia in proportion to the above-mentioned mergers. So, once again, it's just public education. And education is being levelled because it is a synergy irrational by creating remote and remote sections to serve the interests of specific local and university circles. That's what SYRIZA means about democracy. Articles 23 and 24 provide for the establishment of the Mediterranean University of Crete with the integration of the TEI of Crete with its abolition as an autonomous institution. Firstly, once again there is a preference for quantitative growth at the expense of qualitative upgrading. In other words, we are talking about quantity rather than quality clearly. Secondly, there is vagueness in recruiting staff once again, as no arrangements are provided for open teaching procedures. Thirdly, the Government calls for mergers without having prepared the appropriate infrastructure and the appropriate academic environment. As in the other universities, thousands of classes of engineers, economists, mathematicians, etc. are growing up at the University of Crete. What's the point? Unemployment? Because unemployment remains for graduates of schools who have no impact on the labour market, no specific teaching object, no prestige. It's false that unemployment has fallen to 18%. Of course, unemployment has not fallen. On the contrary, it has increased. And I don't really know who makes this evidence. Articles 35 to 44 provide for the integration of TEI of Western Greece into the University of Patras with the expected consequences, i.e. the deterioration of higher education. This is still a merger without the necessary study, as popular departments are abolished and with an impact on the labour market, such as the Department of Accounting and Finance and the Department of Optical Affairs. More generally, with regard to the synergy of HEIs and TEIs, we should mention the ILO's complaint that it was excluded from the session on this bill completely democratically! Articles 45 to 56. This may be the most obvious case of deterioration of HEIs in the field of engineering and IT. With rough calculations, then, the engineering divisions will reach eighty. This is at a time when unemployment has exterminated the graduates of multi-technical schools, as well as the contributions they are constantly forced to pay. In Articles 57 to 61, once again, SYRIZA continues the regularity of mergers of educational institutions. This time, not without HEI but HEIs and an independent school, progressing a step further towards the degradation of education and the levelling-up of educational levels. In fact, with these provisions, teachers of the School of Public Health are automatically equated with university professors, which is unacceptable and anti-Academic. We are voting against Articles 62 and 63. We are voting against Articles 74 to 99 concerning the standards of schools, which have teachers with increased formal qualifications and teaching experience. The introduction of the apprenticeship potential is followed by introductory examinations. Nowhere in this bill is there any mention of increasing school standards, which are minimal. Obviously, there is a need to increase the number of them. But of course we have waited for nothing more than a government that despises every sense of sovereignty and excellence. The decoupling of experimental municipalities from experimental schools and for academics and educational reasons is not understood, as it takes a long time to have tangible results from the new teaching approaches to the spirituality of students. Article 100 applies to the access of pupils to higher education. Of course, there is no substantial change here. The main thing is that problems continue in education. This is an article in fact useless and pointless, as it has infinite changes in matter and how to carry out the examinations. Once again, there are no key areas for access to higher education, which is a process that has a mental impact on students and many financial expenditure on Greek families when all these difficult government measures exist. In addition to this, the separation of schools into free access schools and schools with access through examinations creates a two-speed system. We are voting against Articles 101 to 116. These refer to arrangements relating to the evaluation of pupils in the general school. Here to say that nowhere is there any mention of the evaluation of pupils based on their conduct, as was the case in the past. Also, in Article 16, the maximum number in one class reaches twenty - five children, when the maximum pupils in one class have to be ten. In fact, such an arrangement could reduce the huge spending on care centres and have a more effective education. We are voting against Articles 117 to 159 relating to arrangements for the functioning of vocational schools. It is regrettable that so much ink was wasted on writing useless articles, which do not solve the chronic problems of professional high school. We are voting against Articles 160 to 201. These articles regulate all aspects relating to the functioning of the General Archives of the State. We are voting against Articles 202 and 203 relating to private education. There is no regulation on study centres, which operate without any control over buildings, on the qualifications of those working there, so there are great risks for pupils and workers. There are complaints that people who have study centres do not pay contributions. Workers are often undeclared and are exploited. These centres, in fact, often operate until eleven o'clock at night. We are also voting against Articles 204 to 226 in relation to the filming of outdoors. Of course there will be control over the outsides of the institutions, because we know very well what is happening by the well-known - strangers who enter the institutions and plunder all the equipment. Of course, the Greek citizen is forced to pay him. I shall conclude, Mr President. Education for us, the Golden Dawn, is a lever to maintain the existence of the nation, as its quality discounts the level and morality of the citizens of this people. For this basic reason, then, education must promote the eternal time-long values of Hellenism and be based on the chariot of Greek tradition. The Golden Dawn, as I have said in committee, has positions and solutions. He will stand next to the Greek student, the Greek student, the Greek parent who faces such serious problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u109	So do we. Mr. Delis of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Another critical bill on education with closed schools and schools, with the government thinking poorly that this will avoid popular outcry. She laughs, of course, and receives a first answer with today's mobilisation and the misery of her conduct, which has now enriched her with irony and also with the anti-grass bill, a bill of mammoth, with which SYRIZA wants to get over with the unfinished restructures that have been being promoted in education from all the Governments before their new more reactionary phase for the children of the people's families. Reactive restructuring. Why? Because the good of education and they are increasingly expensive for the children of the populace and its contents are poor when they do not twist it. See, for example, what is going on in school books. These restructurings are now progressing with talent and determination, SYRIZA. And he is played, because "he works better", he says, as we say in the reform of the map of EHS, compared to those "ATHENA" type designs in the New Democracy. And all this under the awake eye of BSE, based on the European Union directives and under the high supervision of the OECD. Before we talk, however, about the reactively including the broom bill, I would like to say a few words about Article 225, starting with the end - which provides - that - you hear - the placement of kindergartens for six years, please, not only in primary, but also in high school, even in high school. Stacking in and in high school courtyards four-year-olds and five-year-olds, do you call it "upgrading pre-school education"? Is this how the compulsion of two-year pre-school education will go ahead? This is, in any case, an unacceptable provision. I'm coming to the bill. It closes the first cycle of reordering the map of higher education, with the full absorption of the TEIs from their neighbouring universities, even leading to the "Frankenstein" schools of heirous scientific objects, as is the case with the teachers of Patras, whose department is merged with the section of the social workers. It cares and does not upgrade high school while introducing a new system of access to universities. SYRIZA converts high school to an even larger and wilder arena of competition, with more exams, pan-Hellenic, regional, intra-school and, of course, the educational needs of the new generation to fly to Kaidas. While universities, precisely because they adapt even more tightly to the goals of businessmen, are increasingly removed from the need for students to study their science and, of course, from finding a job with rights in what they studied. The bill, which in its writing European Union, increases the class barriers for children of working folk families and thus, the poorer the pocket of a family, the smaller its expectation and the path to the education of its child, as a student and as a student. Because although in which school he will study, he depends on how much his family has to pay to care centres and on what work he will then work, he depends on how much he can pay to buy from educational trade, which in both SYRIZA is blossoming and growing, postgraduate, seminars and certifications to complete his curriculum. Here it is, then, that of your educational reforms for the children of poor people's strata. Your high school works to exclude them from knowledge, because tomorrow the same system, which you now serve, excludes them from life with rights. Why, though, are university studies, undergraduate, becoming increasingly diagnosed in on-line training instead of an integrated scientific knowledge, which is now sold as it is on the expensive only postgraduate market? The answer is in the bill: for in the dozens of merged institutions, curricula runs behind the temporary investment priorities of capital, which, of course, are constantly changing, depending on its profits. Let these curriculum programs form, as the bill says to you, according to Diamantopoulou, a law that otherwise, as the memorials, SYRIZA abolished. Did you hear New Democracy and the others say anything about all this? What do they blame? The European Union's education strategy? Are they crazy? And so all they have left is to get ramped up for the secondarys, throw water into the guild's mill and blame the government, of course, as usual, for their sluggishness, lack of dialogue, and so on, and so on, they hide that they have the same strategy. SYRIZA's fairness, but also from the New Democracy, that nowhere in the bill does the necessary support for young people, such as old, infrastructural schools, with permanent educational and auxiliary staff, i.e. the necessary state funding for their operation. As for the five hundred new ICPs you have been telling us for a long time: are you serious about meeting the enormous needs of the universities? Really, don't you know what happened with the previous LPD positions that SYRIZA announced? Not even 40% - and we say very much - of them were not covered. And you know, we don't care at all if it's because of this ministry or the prefectures that you're putting together the responsibilities, because in the end the students are paying for it. Also suitable, by SYRIZA and the New Democracy for the students' pressing needs, due to the insufficient or complete lack of student care, with the cost of study being done for many unbearable and forbidden for their studies. However, the Government makes it clear and the New Democracy agrees that changes in higher education serve the development plans of the regions, namely investment capital per region. See an example from western Macedonia. At the same time as the debate on the transition to the so-called "metalignical period" flies, while the conditions meanwhile and the prospects of energy workers are worsening, at the same time, visions of aromatic plants development and cannabis or cinema studios are being moved in the old, it says PPC facilities, or smart cities or golden monopolistic business groups with garbage. What does all this mean? That the number of stable jobs will be reduced and the situation of workers worse and with your laws, of course. Here is how they are represented in today's bill and institutes, for example, provided for the University Research Centre in Western Macedonia. Instead of seeing how the country's mineral wealth will be exploited, with modern methods, for the people to have cheap energy, and here the graduates of the Department of Environmental Engineering can play a very crucial role, you, because their lignites are sold out, this department is turned into a Department of Chemical Engineering. Because obviously for cannabis business on the lands of the old mines, it will take large factories as long as you say. After all this, the cherry in your anti-grass cake is the introduction of elastic industrial relations in these institutes, at all the relevant institutes, that is, work on time or block, all for which SYRIZA, before becoming a government, was up the tiles. And now what's he doing? He's legislating. For high school now and the import system: The Third High School Act becomes a preparatory year for universities, in other words, to say things by their name. Educational inequality is growing between pupils and, of course, not only is it not limited, but paradoxes are strengthened. We are talking about a school "carabinato" an examination centre, filled with hard, psycho-corrosive exams and even with increased material in the pan-Hellenic examination courses, filled with stress and insecurity with students and emptied their parents' pockets in the mathematics, whose owners have long been rubbing their hands and announcing it even through "AGEAN" for the customerhood that will grow. The high school of SYRIZA becomes a normal competition arena, in addition to the pan-Hellenic, regional exams are provided. Only so, you know, not only are today's high school pathogens being treated, but on the contrary, they are exacerbated and finally all of this is being taken care of, and the multiple examinations provided for in them lead the high school to take place except for exterior, even more indecent, even more sterile for students, since the third level of school is almost completely out of the reach of general education. A general education, of course, absolutely necessary in our time, so that the student and every man understand the rapid technological advances that are taking place around him. And where does the student have to find this general knowledge and education if not in school? But what school? To what are general education and education shrinking and its books being monuments of irrationality and unscientificity? And then it's the students who, in lack of this general multifaceted knowledge, do not have the cognitive background to judge the results of a search, say Google or Wikipedia, the direct sources of information today in relation to any book? Is it the limit of the characters on Twitter that students often find it difficult to handle composite proposals and use a richer vocabulary, or is it the way in which language is taught in school through cooking recipes and ads? And is it not the least time for students to do the YouTube in their eyes the easiest entertainment? And how can Facebook and Instagram not look at them as the most immediate form of socialization in which they develop their interpersonal relationships when their school and way of life do they not form a different background to develop these social relationships as well? So students need a school that offers them full - time education so that they can understand what is going on around them, because it happens, who is to blame, how it can be changed and in what direction it can be done. Instead, the school of SYRIZA, the high school of SYRIZA, leads them to the era of the Middle Ages and provides - listen - the only lessons that all students of the third high school will have to be the modern Greek language and secretariat, such as Latin, the time of Galilee and religious, of course, the gymnastics. What does that mean? It means that not all students will learn the biology and the theory of Darwin's evolution, neither the defence mechanisms nor the human immune system. It means that not all students will be taught mathematics, basic statistics, it means that not all students will be taught history, namely the entire modern and Greek history from 1815 until today, because that means. In other words, many students, most of them, will not know events such as the Industrial Revolution, the Greek Revolution, the Balkan Wars, the First and Second World Wars, the resistance of our people in the years of the Occupation, the Civil War, the junta of 1967-1974, the Migration and, of course, the corresponding scientific and spiritual creations throughout this time. And yet, if it wasn't the nipple of this examination competition, the student who dreams of studying physics would really like to know very much in what background, in what social context, did Galilee, Newton, Einstein, what fed up their thoughts, how they ended up in these great scientific discoveries, and not sitting on memorizing, as you want, strange guys. The learner who dreams of studying IT would really like to know how man was able to manipulate the laws of nature, so that he could make the information transmitted at uncompromising speeds at every corner of the world and not sit around learning dry algorithms at your school. The learner who wants to study financially would like to know how they function and how the achievements of science and technology have been developed that constantly reforming the productive base of the economy, rather than teaching that the worker is a cost - something that reminds you of this - for the company and that the industrialists, shipowners and bankers are the ones who are the ones who are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the ones that move the economy and not the real producer of wealth, namely the working class. The student who dreams of studying medicine, nursing medicine, would like to know how and why the conditions of working class life are worsening her health and not that the health of the people is a cost to the economy, which we need to limit, and medicines should be expensive to earn the pharmaceuticals. The student who wants to study history would like to be able to process the economic data and understand the scientific discoveries of every time and not to find in school books "all the names of the kings", as Breech says. In short, all students would like to learn what deprives them of the high school SYRIZA is making and deprives them of the school that exists so far. What the student certainly wouldn't want and doesn't want is to get into this exterminating process of today's high school that SYRIZA is preparing. You see, this unprecedented, historically educational time comes in our country, limiting general education by a school year, because that's it, and that's what's done with the signature of SYRIZA. In other words, those who once made fire speeches and wrote endless articles in "AGEI" for 12-year-old education. Even this well-advertised announcement of your supposedly free access to universities goes to her, too, the pan-Hellenic press exams for the national graduation office in high school. Finally, for a school, which forms rather than exterminates, the demand for students to learn their sciences fully, to study without hindrance and work on the subject of their education with rights. In other words, the demand for a single 12-year-old school is tied to the demand for more radical changes in the economy and society at the end of the day. And this new generation's racing response, the JRC supports it everywhere. I would also like to say a word about three critical amendments, in our view, tabled by the JRC and we expect them to be accepted by the Ministry's leadership. We think that the assurance of a rating, which we recall, was abolished by the Arsenis of PASOK in 1997, is today, as things have guided, a minimum measure to support the poor, the weak, so that they can slowly go to school that they want to study, and also the right of thousands of students who do not comply with the economic criteria that you have taken them to the bottom - that is why we are saying that family income should be increased to 5,000 for every child, so that the students of the poor families can study, by taking relocation, be understood. Finally, for graduates of TEIs, that is to say, for those who remain outside of the 2nd, there is an amendment of the JRC that answers what will happen, so that they do not become another large part of the categorised degrees and that their degrees are equal to those who are after 2001 and even to all the previous ones if necessary - which, of course, should be provided free of charge and with the possibility - for the Ministry and the state to ensure that these people are equal to their degrees. That's why more and more, if necessary, I'll talk in the second grades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u111	Good, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-one students and two students and two teachers from the High School of Plot of Lesvos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Megammustakas from the Central Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my position on the bill, I would like to highlight the fact that today we are one day after the date it hurt, hurt, troubled our place, our citizens, our democracy. We are fifty-two years after 21 April, when the democratic state was destroyed. Thousands of our fellow citizens, we all know, have been expelled, tortured, and even killed for freedom, so that we are in democracy today. We must honor the heroes, every Greek and every Greek woman who gave and even their lives for the future, for our country. We must therefore do our duty, namely to legislate with thought, justice, care, objectivity, merit, dignity, equality and always for the benefit of the sovereign people, particularly when we come to discuss such serious issues as what we are discussing today and about education. With this in mind, we must all understand that images like those that preceded the opening of today's debate do not suit the Greek Parliament, in Greek democracy. But let's also get into the bill, a bill that the majority of society, well or badly, expects to see what happens with high school and admission to EHS. Today I shall speak in a three-fold capacity: as a Member of Parliament, as a Member of Parliament with the Centro Association, as a teacher, being a kindergarten, but also as a representative of the new generation, as the newest MP elected in 2015. This draft law has more than a thousand pages, four hundred of which relate to legislative provisions and extends to 225 articles, except for the latter, concerning the entry into force of this draft law. The draft law also deals with issues from the whole range of education, which is why we believe that it should have been much more appropriate, much more democratic. And I say democratically why a serious debate should have taken place, that the time needed for us to be able to look at all the issues and all the provisions of this bill. No one doubts that such a large draft law, such a piece of legislation takes time. It takes a lot of time not only to look into, but also to set up. But it has been three years since spring 2016, when the findings of the last national dialogue on education were announced and we are coming today to talk about it. So society, and the educational community through a multitude of intermediate and sometimes conflicting statements in recent years about what will happen in high school, about introducing into higher education institutions, has given time and tolerance to this issue, as it is something that hurts her and cares for our children, perhaps the most valuable we have in life. However, these conflicts and conflicting statements are a thorn. I will give an example of it. On May 17, 2016, the first year of validity of the system of pan-Hellenics now in place, SYRIZA Education Department referred, together with their wishes at the time, candidates for the pan-Hellenics, a single high school of theory and practice and free access to higher education - I read it self-determination. At the same time, the conclusion of the Committee of the National and Social Dialogue for Education with President Antonis Liakos, on 27 May 2016, was given in the section "The New School" and in the section "Proposal for a different high school" on page 27: "The examinations for the Sanctions for the Liakos to be carried out in school, but with guarantees of validity and reliability. It could be considered that each high school should come from a central base and be automatically produced and balanced, as is provided for in many educational systems within and outside Europe. Successful completion of high school studies is one of the conditions of entry into higher education." Whilst under the heading "Association of National Appointment", on page 32, it comes and tells us: "The subjects are defined either by a single procedure, for example by the Examination Agency, in order to have a weighted difficulty, or they are different for each high school, but they will come from a common basis, they will be chosen randomly using algorithms and they will also have a weighted difficulty in avoiding fluctuations, such as SAT, GMAT. And I am tabling documents from both SYRIZA's National Dialogue and Education Department. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastasios Megalamoustakas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is a problem, therefore. When you - and when I say you, I mean the government - do you not have a understanding, then how do you want the world to have a clear picture of what is going to happen? Unfortunately, this piece of legislation, as I said before, comes desperately late. Most likely it is not to be implemented or if it is implemented, because no one can be sure, especially now with the situation as we know it will continue. After all, it has become clear that as soon as the Senate takes over, this law, like many others, will be abolished. So, what do we have in front of us? We will start our children in September in the third grade with an alpha course, such as Sociology, for example, instead of Latin and when the elections are held, if they are held in October, the children will not know what will happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u113	That's not what we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u114	There's a transitional period. So that's what needs to be cleared up and everyone listens to it. It is good to have clarification, but in no case does that good for the young people of our country. It does not escape, too, this draft law from the fate of many others who have been filed over time and have gaps in implementation. Who's gonna fix it and when? It is truly paradoxical how you want us to discuss such a project today. There has always been a time of no surprise in changes of pan-Hellenic exams and, more generally, in changes in high school, which we do not see now. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] I ask: will those who compete in the pan-Hellenic Latin, compete in the summer of 2020 with Latin or Sociology at the end of the day? What provision is there for these children for 2020? We would like to hear it from the Minister. Provision, let's say, has been for the non-use of the dismissal on the access of HEIs through the pan-Hellenics, especially for 2020. We propose that there should be no direct inclusion in the draft law and in the final and authorized text provisions, which those and those of either graduates of this school year or of the previous years since the current system applies, i.e. graduates from the years 2015-2016 and 2018-2019 and who are candidates or candidates for pan-Hellenic examinations this year, 2019, should have the right to compete in the courses that have been taught and to be included in the new system since the academic year 2021-2022. It is not the intention of us to legislate as it makes it easier for the Minister, but to adapt the procedures to the people of that country. Furthermore - and this is extremely important, especially for us - parliamentary time has not been given to debate and co-formulate even now. And what the Minister said at first, we do not accept them. The committee has been completed, instead of four sittings, in about one 24 hours. I don't know how you see that. Does anyone or colleagues here appreciate that there was a proper study either in the Opposition or in the government? We believe that no and we will not accept anything opposite, no matter what that sounds, because human nature cannot examine this size and volume of information. To refer to the articles, to one - one separately, it takes hours for the whole, and I have said so to the committee I am referring to today. I will also make another repetition, and I will mention another example, in order to understand that such plans must have time to develop. Attributes, I'm telling you again about bill 2525/1997. He had come to Parliament a few months after PASOK's election victory in 1996. Elections were held on 22 September. Many have agreed, many have disagreed. We saw that over time the exams were applied, they changed a lot of matters in high school. In fact, the books were changed at the time, and that was a reform. However, the same books see that they are even taught today. It is characteristic what I said that our books do not mention the finding of water on Mars and the discovery of the human genome. The 1996 books also supported the high school course in Diamantopoulou in 2011 and the high school in Arvanitopoulou in 2013. Today we are going to implement a new system, with the same basis. I will give two specific examples to understand what I mean. The school books of Biology and Natural Resources Management, which have been taught in the First High School since 2011 and 2013, are books that were taught in higher class since 1998. It is unfortunate that the high school curriculum has become a faculty, rising classes and sections of material and school books, and we are not talking about these essential issues at all. We can't make the change without taking care of our bases. We now come for other flagships, since that word is fashioned now, in the course of the new high school, like research work. I also want the Chamber to know that since 2011 that was introduced up to now, it has not been developed in the digital school or a small brochure for the student. All he's come is a posted book with educational and educational material and that's - in introductory terms the word - innovative, but also the lesson under consideration. Well, then, the fast track procedures you choose, but not the education issues. It may only be for investment funds to be found. There you should create rapid procedures, give quick solutions and always, of course, in the national interest and not the economic benefit of foreigners. It's not the fast track procedures for education, it's not for the educational community, it's not for our children. It's not about the future we hope will come to this country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have said before, but I will say again that the experiment is not an educational method for doing so in our education. We arrive at the end of this parliamentary term, which began in 2015 and will only once again be left in a draft law on education is the tampering in party castles, in opposite worlds, in enemies with spoiled children. Where's the consensus? Everyone has gone up to this step to talk about education and they have at least once mentioned the consensus. How close is this draft law tabled in the context of national dialogue? Do you really think that this draft law will be sustainable? What's the matter with the educational community? Have you wondered?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Bigfoot, you have to hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, all the speakers have had a lot more time, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u117	I'm leaving. I've already left four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u118	Yeah, yeah. Another spoke and twenty-two minutes. I will finish, because it is perhaps the last draft law on education and it is really very important to put it in place. I'd also like to use time from my second thoughts...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u119	I'm not gonna put that on, like he didn't get into the others, so you'd have the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u121	Just a maintenance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much. So what did we do? We certainly did not reach consensus in such difficult years, such as the years of the memorandum. The fact that the bill comes to be voted now, so late, does not give us hope that something will change. You know very well that the Centro Association every time it was called to participate in dialogue or debate on education issues was there. In fact, in May, and in particular, on May 24, 2016, we tabled a comprehensive programme for all the steps, which I will testify for whoever wants to see. Even for the sooner day-to-day start of school, we referred to those proposals. We said, in fact, that the school would start at 8:30 and end at 14:00, based always on international studies. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Our 2016 proposals were targeted, thoroughly and most importantly, they were of little or no cost. They could be applied easily in this educational process. Amongst other things, we have proposed that a school should be set up in which respect for human rights, equality, active learning, participation, a school where all the values we see should work within society would be there. We talked about compulsory education at the primary and high school of thirty hours, but in classes of up to twenty students, because that is what our education needs. We talked about building security with appropriate logistics. We must finally make green buildings that are environmentally friendly, because this is also part of education and education. To make use of all European programmes. We have proposed that the funds be reallocated and that the funds for education be increased to 5%, because investment in our children is the one that will bring the greatest benefit to our country. We also want action to be implemented through our positions on the removal of the total displacement of students. We have talked about the development and implementation of appropriate and targeted training programmes for teachers, about the presence of a psychologist and counsellor in all schools, in all schools and, above all, about the adoption of decisions by the Co-Chairman of the Child - and this is perhaps the most important one - regarding matters of school life and the introduction of their direct application in our country's schools. We consider it essential to update the schools in real time for these decisions, while it is worth noting that 36.6% of the cases they have been working between 2003 and 2015 were for education. In fact, in the Minutes, I am tabling the relevant report by the Child's Counsellor, on the occasion of the plan for high school in Arvanitopoulou, where it says: 'It is important to achieve the disconnection of high school and higher education. We note the need that converging both with the aims of the school and with the wishes of the school community." [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I won't read it all as I've submitted the document in the Minutes. I'm tabling a document from the Citizen's Counselor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Big-fashioned, anyway, you have to hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u124	Yes, Mr. President. For example, what we would do, if we were in a government position at this time, is a lot of basic. I don't know how time management will be. Really, it's hard to stop talking when things are so important. It is the promotion and dismissal of high school pupils in accordance with the procedure that we have already described on other committees, the introduction to TEIs and IEIs and to all higher education institutions with AEPs procedures. When you ask teachers to introduce themselves in a certain way, we cannot come today and burden students much more. I shall submit two more documents, and I shall end with them, concerning the entire Greek chemistry examinations, but also the issues of the excellent chemistry contest of the Union of Chemicals of the same year, so that you can understand what is happening to the educational system and how paradoxical all we live in. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I also told the committee that we might be a small party, but I think we have shown great courage and we have done a great deal of work on education issues. But what regrets us is the fact that you are not taking us into consideration. It's very difficult to participate in a dialogue where one or one of them doesn't listen. The Centro Association in this draft law will vote 'present' in principle, 'present' and in all the articles, as we do not see any of what we have said, as we do not see that there is cooperation, consensus, wisdom to achieve a proper and effective result for all our children. What I want to keep in mind is that we will all be judged by the result, and history will show whether we had done the right thing or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u125	Listen, ladies and gentlemen, because there is no other bill and in consultation with the President of Parliament, we have said that we will show a tolerance in time, but that I will not let it get over with, because then we will go to the Great Wednesday, which is not, as you can see. Also, when the government recommends urgency, he knows the time. In consultation with the President of Parliament, we have taken a timeline. Tonight we'll finish around 23:00. Tomorrow we'll start at 10:00, because the political leaders will probably talk. We'll be done at 13:00. One quarter will be interrupted and the vote will begin at 13.15. I've been saying that since today. I guess there's no objection. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u126	So, unanimously, the timetable has been approved and will be, first God, the nominal one around 13:30, to leave for Easter holidays. The House and the Committees will start immediately after Easter. I can also tell you that when the rapporteurs have spoken for twenty minutes, I cannot give the Minister only twelve, who also normally had 12 minutes. I say it beforehand, so I don't listen to riddles underneath. I'll take 20 minutes to the minister. But they want to speak for three minutes, each for two amendments, Mr Haritsis first and Mr Arachovitis second. In order to disembowel them, they will take the floor before the Minister. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to develop your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will be very brief, so that we do not abuse Parliament's time. I am referring to the amendment with a general number of 2128 and a specialist of 237. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that our Government recently made implementation of its commitment to the conversion of the "Help to Home" programme into a permanent structure of the social state, in accordance with Article 86 of Law 4604/2019 with the creation of organic structures at OTA I grades in municipalities throughout the country. This provision provides that any municipality may establish staff posts in the programme, equal to the number of persons employed in the programme at the time of the entry into force of that provision. With this amendment, without, of course, modifying the basic rule of this restriction, but following requests from small island municipalities, we are making it possible, especially in these small island municipalities, as defined by the 'CLITHENH' Act, namely municipalities with a population of up to three and a half thousand inhabitants, to set up as many permanent staff for this programme as were the originals in the contract concluded with the EBRD in 2011 or 2012. This is because there are small island municipalities that in this time period, these years, i.e. 2011 and 2012, lost some staff positions, left one of this staff. So they will have the possibility with this specific arrangement to return to the number of staff for this very important social programme, the 'Help at home', which is now a permanent social state institution. They will be able to return to the initial number of workers. This also meets the constitutional requirement for special protection of islands, with this more complete staffing of small island municipalities. It is also another regulation of our Government that comes to be added to many others who have recently become to support islands, support small island municipalities, especially in such an important, so sensitive social programme, such as "Help at Home". That is why I call on all the governments of Parliament to support this regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Arachovite, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister of Education for the possibility of tabling an amendment today. This is an extension of Article 36 of Law 4061, whereby the possibility of granting agricultural real estate to a principal occupation by farmers and unemployed persons was allowed. The initial deadline was three years, for the proceedings to take place. However, in a document - a request from the Greek Committee of the Regions - which I shall be tabling for the Minutes too - we have been asked to extend the concessions already for a further year, for a growing season rather than for the services of the regions to be ready for the distribution process. With today's amendment we therefore welcome the request from HSY and extend until 31 October 2019 the concession to existing farmers. [[At this point, the Minister for Rural Development and Food submits the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] With the second paragraph, because many of the farmers who had accepted the concessions have lost the status of a farmer, and there is a risk that land will be left unavailable, we will allow these indisposed areas, in accordance with the same procedures as set out in Law 4061, by a decision of the regional director, at the request of the young beneficiaries, namely the main professions of farmers and young farmers, to be granted to new beneficiaries up to the same date until 31 October 2019. After this date, and in accordance with the commitment of the Union of Regions, we hope that the regions will be ready to distribute, in accordance with the normal procedure laid down in Law 4061. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u130	The Minister has the floor, Mr Gavroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill we are completing the reformist and legislative initiatives of a huge reform plan that started with the national dialogue on education in 2016, the discussions in the Committee on Morphic Affairs, the discussions with scientific and trade unions, as well as with the congresses of the HEIs. It is three years of intensive consultation, with tensions, with objections and with too many arguments. The great reform that we moved on to higher education, when it is completed in September 2020, comes to meet the high school reform, precisely because these two things cannot be separate. It must be clear because, unfortunately, too many impressions are being created, that in September 2017 I called my office, and they responded to the invitation, all parties and I visited Mrs. Gennimata in her office in this House, to discuss the matter of high school. Since then, apart from Potami, no other party, no one at all, has sent concrete proposals. The most serious question is not whether we disagree on solutions. It's if we agree on the problem. This is where the deafening silence of counterpopulation is impressed. They want to - yes or no? - to continue the current situation? They want us to be a country, a country, without High School III? Because today there's no Third High School, today there's only Third High School on paper. Children from March and then they don't go to school, everyday life cancels teachers, despite all the heroic efforts these people have made to keep their third grade. It's a high school with a dismissal and it costs families a year 2,5 billion euros to go only 30% to study what they actually want. The first question, then, is this: do you agree to this finding? This doesn't have an asterisk. Do you agree, yes or no? Because if you agree, then let's see what solutions there are. If you do not agree there is chaos between us and chaos is in the reading of everyday life and reality. No more hypocrisy, no more saying that things are really fine and let's change a book here, let's change a lesson there. No, the Third High School does not exist and this is a national problem, it is a problem in which the future of hundreds of thousands of young children is promised. Are we going to stop it, or are we all going to continue to have hypocrisy in this peculiar irrational theater? And you know, there is no serious European country where the dismissal does not have a role to play in the university. It can't be that dismissal that detested. Of course, the Third High School is discredited and of course it is detestable and the public school, because tens of years of propaganda have undermined the public school, but despite all the attack on it he was on his feet. He stood on his feet, because in twenty years' time, when these children will discuss with their children what this tragic period has been, there will be one question and the question will be: 'Why has education not collapsed in the years of the crisis?' And education didn't collapse because we have our teachers, because they took the situation on their backs, even though these governments have wasted them all these years. So we say that if we seriously want to see High School III, we will understand it as follows: It is a year between the completion of Circular studies and the first year of the university. It's a transitional year. That's the character of lyric education. It is a year in which, of course, circular studies continue, but not in the context of general courses, but in the context of these courses that prepare you to go to university. It's a preparatory time and it's lessons that take place in school, it's not lessons that take place in school. The tutorial doesn't lie to anyone. He says, "Come to me and I'll prepare you to go to university," he says, "Come to me to educate you." So here the school must take back the initiative and the lead in the education of our children and in the preparation for the university. That is why we are saying 'a few lessons, many hours'. At the end of the second grade, the studies are completed in the third grade, we will have four lessons and these courses will be in depth, it will be six hours, we will give teachers the opportunity to have a comfort in school and, above all, we will give children the opportunity to discuss with teachers and with each other, not what is now being done. The discussion must be the school, not just the education area. And today, as children are nervous and pressured by teachers, there is an annulled educational role in high school. Of course, as far as the issue of obtaining the certificate is concerned, it will not be possible to obtain the certificate, as is the case today, that is to say, the professor puts the questions and that the teacher corrects the writtens with the names of all of them openly. For all parents, let's not all say, a large number of parents presses the teachers to have children grades '19' and '20'. That's not allowed. There's a moral deficit here, there's a moral deficit from any parent who goes and pushes educational. Let our teachers do their job. This situation is not allowed, this pressure on our teachers. So the dismissal, from now on, will first be corrected by teachers from the next schools, with the names closed, so that teachers do not have this unbearable pressure, for which people have no responsibility. Of course, there was again today that weeping, if you like, for classical studies. Look, if some of us upgraded classical studies, that's the government. You're laughing, Mrs. Keramea...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u132	Yeah, I'm laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u133	You're laughing because you obviously don't have a deep knowledge of what is a classic study. He upgraded them, because the emphasis is on the magic of texts, it's not on formalism. The magic of the texts is of great importance, and it must be learned as many students as possible. And, of course, for Latin, which had become such a fuss, and so forth, obviously we consider it to be a lesson to be taught, is an optional lesson, whoever wants to take it. Why is it only the lessons considered are serious lessons and all the rest in your opinion aren't? This bill also establishes for the first time the National Training Centre for Education. The National Training Centre for Education is part of the Greek Open University, where the full use of technology and know-how for remote and living training of our teachers will be made. Of course, I heard nothing about the fifteen thousand appointments. We are the first, by decision of the government, obviously, which after August 2018, after the end of the committee, decided to give fifteen thousand teachers posts for the next three years. And I ask the Opposition: do we want these appointments? Mr. Mitsotakis, as far as I can tell, he doesn't want them. Why, as far as I understand it, do you want the appointments? The answer is not 'to see', the answer is 'yes, I want them'. Take advantage of them in the best possible way? Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u134	We voted on them, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u135	Did you vote for them? Wait. What exactly did you vote for?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u136	The only thing he'd cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u137	Wait. What did you vote for? You voted in favour of the budget. Look at you, because you've done this often. It also happened at the University of West Attica, if you remember. You voted in principle against the bill, you voted against the articles establishing the university and then you come and say, "But we voted for it at the University of Western Attica". Look, this is all called 'creative accounting' expressed in votes. With regard to the new architecture of higher education institutions now: this is where we need to understand this, and this must be very clear to our citizens. For the first time in the history of Greek education our students will be invited to complete computers where there will be only university departments. It's over and out. Secondly, the country finally acquires powerful university spaces that align it with developments in Europe. Because all for Europe you are talking about, only when you come to them, you forget about Europe. The strong, networked university will be the university of the future for research and knowledge. That is precisely what is happening in Europe right now, and that should also be done in our country, and not this incredible fragmentation. Finally, for the great finding that technological education is being abolished - of course I do not understand which technological education, which also had parts of obstetrics and departments of nurses and administrative departments, etc. - those are from the past. Try to modernise with the present. The present does not have the difference between theory and practice. There's no theory and application of the theory. It's finished methodologically. It's a complete history. That is why we no longer have such universities of applied science in Europe. Because polytechnics are technological education too. And all kinds of departments at universities are technological education and not the underestimated in your consciousness of technological education that was with TEI. And we saw what your policy was for almost all TEIs. Here, for the first time, vocational and technological education is being set up within the framework of a university system. And that's not possible with everything staying the same. They're going to be new curriculum programs. We have university research centres. We have the two-year curriculum. We have another architecture. An architecture that has an excellent dynamic. And you know? There's something else. We do not say 'we will'. We say we did it already. Ask the Ionian University. Ask the University of Ioannina. Ask the University of Thessaly. Ask the University of Athens. Ask the Agronomical. Ask the University of West Attica to see the dynamics of the new architecture. Is everything perfect? Alas, if it was perfect. Something wouldn't work out. But there is a dynamic. There is a very positive dynamic. And this is entirely credited to our government's policy on the single area of research and education. And take care of that. Because it does not help the national project to upgrade our universities when it is degenerated in the fact that the TEIs are being combined with the universities. Nothing falseer than that. The new architecture has four parameters: First, completely new sections in new cognitive objects. Secondly, synergy between the departments of the TEIs with the equivalent of the universities. Third, university research centres with research institutes. And, fourthly, two years of study for PSA graduates, who will enter without an examination and be free of charge. And they will provide the two-year curricula of professional qualifications for European standards. That's it. And we have already given a hundred fifty seats for the foundations, which I mentioned to you. They've already been given. They're sharing with the conventioners right now. And we are giving five hundred other positions for the framework of this project and for those parts that are in great need from the other universities. Also, for the first time since 2010, we are legislating to reopen all posts, which are the result of retirements. The one you guys froze. That's what you froze. And then you cry about the universities. It shall be returned for the first time after 2010. So we already have a hundred fifty seats. We are giving five hundred teachers and three hundred retirement posts plus a thousand five hundred legislative posts - it is already the call in the air, it is not 'will' - for young scientists for academic experience, which means they can teach up to three lessons a year. Finally, 15 million from the ESDP for these universities, so that the new architecture can be facilitated. And you know, in our opinion, one of the reasons why, I believe, there is such a great deal of tension - because it seemed that there is not enough of arguments, from tension there and I have, of course, seen all the means at hand in the Opposition that they have lifted it too much - is this: you didn't think we would do it. It's so simple. So simple. You didn't think so. You did not think that we would be able to complete the matter with the universities, with the new architecture. And you did not think that we would be able to end up - with a lot of changes from the original plan, with many changes resulting from the consultation - in the matter of high school. That's what all this fuss is about. Otherwise, we have voted for the other universities as well. Specifically now: For the University of Western Macedonia: we consider that we are upgrading this university with a highly structured polytechnic school with additional departments and institutes in Florina, Kastoria, Ptolemais and Grevenas, as obviously Kosani. Here, too, we have the possibility of converting the Atmospheric Station of Ptolemais into an international cinema centre. In this context we will also proceed with the establishment of a Film Department and the establishment of a Department for the Management of Cultural Units. We also have one of the leading European libraries in Kosani. Despite this library, we're going to establish an institution related to research around the book and archive issues. The International University of Greece: is a university formed by the existing International University, by the TEI of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace and the TEI of Thessaloniki along with the TEI of Central Macedonia. The current International, for which you made complaints in newspapers, articles in the air, etc. The President of the International Fund, Mr Stamos, explained to you the other day that he is a university which, after eleven, twelve years of age, has seven ICP members and his finances are in a very problematic situation. That's why we're setting up the International University. That is why it will be a dynamic extrovert institution with many courses and programs in English. The University of Patras: Great specs around the University of Patras. The University of Patras, as I explained in the morning, is a university whose consortium made a unanimous decision on the law, on the agronomics. And there was a negative decision to include some other departments, or synergy between some other departments from the TEI. You know, I want it clear in opposition that we don't play football with the senators. Senates have every right and opportunity to give their opinion to something that is extremely complex and complex. Alas, as I told you, we have consensus everywhere. But, as a state, since we have taken all these opinions, we also have the ultimate responsibility, like any government, to take everything into account and move forward. So we have one logic. There's a architecture in our plan. And we move on with this architecture, assuming there are any objections, which to some extent have been addressed, but others, as has been done with other universities, for which, of course, you do not want to talk, but life itself has solved them through everyday life. There was the corresponding problem at the University of Peloponnese. But here, there was something that we proposed and did not accept, even though it was an indirect decision of the senator. There's a four-year IT department. We said it would be five years. We said that to become engineers, and we'll see in perspective what happens to the Polytechnic School. In any case, taking all this into account, the decision was taken. I say we take these decisions into account, and we also take into account the minority views of the other universities, which we could say 'knowledge, are so in favour of us and are not so much'. I do not want to go into these comparisons because they are not serious comparisons. We expect the Senate of the University of Peloponnese to make proposals for the establishment of a Polytechnic School, as well as to speed up the dossier for the Veterinary Department. Finally, for the Hellenic Mediterranean University, which is a development of the TEI of Crete, a TEI that its indicators leave behind seven other universities and for which there was refusal to discuss on behalf of the University of Crete and the Polytechnic of Crete on a zero basis, we are very proud that these departments, with the new curricula and the world they will receive, will become a third, extremely important pole on Crete. And, of course, for the first time, Lassithi enters the university map of Crete equally. As far as universities are concerned, I would like us to commit ourselves and start discussions on the issue of the EDPS, on the issue of all these categories that have a messy employment status and, above all, an unscrupulous academic status. We are committed to a next bill, at the beginning of the summer, to dealing with the issue of the EDPS, the EIF and these categories. Finally, there has been for thirty-six years - thirty-six years! - a problem every government promised to solve. We believe that we are the first government to resolve this fundamentally. This is the four-year engineer and five-year engineer. We therefore say that something that touches the limits of a civil conflict within the same profession cannot continue. So what we are saying is that the sections of engineers, which are four years old, with academic procedures that will be adopted by the senate, can be five years old, in accordance with the criteria we set ourselves. And after becoming a five-year-old committee, in which there will be increased representation of the Chamber of Technical Chambers, the Multitechnical Schools and a representative of the Ministry of Education and a representative of the Ministry of Transport, they will decide whether these five-year-olds have the prerequisites for professional rights. This is a very specific process with very specific criteria. We will follow this process. We are solving a 30-six-year-old problem. The Technical Chamber asked us to make changes, which we accepted and incorporated. We believe that there will finally be a calm social situation, but also a fair social situation. We say this because we will table before the end of the debate, with the respective Minister, Mr Spirtzi, and an amendment on what will happen to the older graduates. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that there are many details which I would like to make clear during the amendments and their acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Javarra, would you like your speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u140	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u141	Good. We're starting with Mr. Javarra. Every five colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u142	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u143	Do you, Ms. Vaki, want to talk to Mr. Javarra or at the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u144	After Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u145	Members won't talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u146	Mr Javarra, do me a favor to give the floor to the first four speakers and then to you. Five speakers will follow, then Mrs Vaki and we will go to the Parliamentary Representatives. So we start with the first speaker, Mr. Peter Constantine. Under the Rules of Procedure, it is five minutes a year. But because I know that at five minutes you don't have time to say anything, I'll leave seven minutes. But in the seven minutes, we'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u147	What's the first ten of speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u148	The first tenth is as follows: Mr. Konstantines, Mrs. Antonios, Mr. Synthrakis, Mr. Varentinis will enter the place of Mr. Kourakis - they have come together - Mr. Baxvanakis, Mrs. Karamanlis, Mr. Andrianos, Mr. Antoniadis, Mrs. Jackis and Mr. Fotilis. So Mr Constantine has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to ratify with our vote issues relating to the sensitive area of the Greek educational system. In Greece, although free access to the EIO has been proposed at times, so far no government has dared to implement it, because the different proposals were based on ideas that were either impracticable or raised doubts as to the credibility of the import system. This draft law for the first time proposes a system of free access that does not disturb the credibility and inefficiency of the pan-Hellenic examinations. The training process so far has, in essence, been canceling the existence of the Third High School. We do not have the right to prolong the current stalemate that our school is currently dying, which creates huge economic pressure on the people's families. Why no one believes that there is at the moment when we are talking 3 of high school that performs an educational role, through a terrible pressure on the care centres - and we know what we are saying and what we have been talking about for so long - which are currently replacing the Greek school. It's hypocritical for us to do what we don't know, when all of us, as parents, have children who give pan-Hellenic exams from high school. It is a pretext that in our country higher education is of a public character, which is first of all constitutionally guaranteed by Article 16 of the Constitution. Today the state, through the political leadership of the Ministry of Education and the General Government, is assessing, firstly, the changes that have taken place in the productive structures of the economy, secondly, the fact that there are no differences between the academic and the technological sector of higher education and, thirdly, that international practice advocates the abolition of this diploma, decides, by exercising its responsibilities in the field of education policy, to reorientate higher education in order to meet the new conditions arising after the economic and social crisis in Greece. We regard the reform of the Ministry of Education as the most important of the last decades, Mr Gavroglou, along with the other ministers and Secretary-General, in the field of higher education. It creates powerful HEIs through synergies, aggregation of forces and resources, both at human and infrastructure levels - we do not have students and graduates from two speeds - research poles in all the regions of the country that characterise what we are doing now. A characteristic example is the Peloponnese TEI with the University of Peloponnese. In this new environment, the integration of the above is a one-way path for both institutions, given the creation of very powerful HEIs that emerged from the integration of TEIs into universities and in all regions, as the Minister said. A powerful University of Peloponnese is being created. The associations of TEIs with universities are the natural and logical consequence of this process, since TEIs and universities are HEIs and their operation has been governed for years by the same rules. Furthermore, they have been subjected to the same evaluation procedures, in compliance with the same criteria, rules and requirements and, finally, the structure of the curriculum is similar. Gentlemen of counter-population, there are great differences between us at the moment in terms of how to understand public education and the constitutional review that we have brought about in Article 16, we understand how you want education. A characteristic example is the clipboard design in 2013 of the "ATHENA" project, which led to the extinction of sections - jewelry, such as the one of Logotherapy in my special homeland, in Kalamata, which fortunately saved it in 2017 and now by the combination the local society of Messinia is further strengthened with another section, upgrading the quality characteristics of the new university. Also, with combinations, we create new jobs when you were threatened with padlocks. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that we are creating students of equal opportunities, equal rights, when you have denounced technological education by sub-financing and the working middle-age of graduates. The last thing I have to say to you is that, unfortunately for you, the citizens have both memory and crisis and can evaluate the criminal plan of my fellow Member and Prime Minister of Greece in 2013 with the "ATHENA" project and what really happens with current governance. We are going along with the citizens. You're on your way to mercenary pollsters. You can stay in them. We will ensure public education and public education. You're the ones trying to privatize them and fire them. That's a measure of other philosophy in the face of what we're doing. The people will judge what we are safeguarding, what we are bringing to the vote and what you want. People don't forget. Be well and thank the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u150	Ms Maria Antoniou, Member of the New Republic of the European Union, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, from the outset, I would ask you to put up with time, because in the committees we have been on a parliamentary mission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u152	I said that for all the speakers it will be two minutes further.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, April has seen it. The SYRIZA Government and the relevant Minister of Education are coming to apply the unfamiliar doctrine "decide and order" and in the field of education in procedures that touch the limits of the parliamentary coup. But you know, Minister, that we 'decide and order', especially in the fields of education, has no precedent in post-government Greece. So we have a bill of a hundred and twenty-seven pages, two hundred and twenty-six articles, concerning all levels of education and directly affecting the lives of hundreds of thousands of students, students, parents, who were tabled at midnight last Tuesday and discussed in committee a few hours to vote on the express procedures, without time, Minister, for adequate parliamentary dialogue, as we have pointed out. Three members of the committee last week, led by the chairman of the committee, Mr Sevastakis, were absent on a parliamentary mission. But you don't care. You also deserve your own colleagues. A government and a minister on the run, therefore, are trying today with one of their last bills - I don't know, it can be the last of the Ministry of Education - to level completely what they left up in the field of education in the four years of their devastating stay in the country's governance. The first part of the bill is the tomb of technological education in our country, Minister. Today, unfortunately, you are completing your destructive work on the supposedly, as you like, reordering the academic map. Remove the latter remaining TEIs and merge them unruly with the universities, without feasibility reports, without sustainability reports, without academic criteria, without taking into account the evaluation reports and without guaranteeing the professional rights of graduates. So, Mr Minister, you want to do this, abolish technological education in the country, because you do so by region, Attica, Epirus, Central etc.Huh? Can I answer you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u155	Why do you legislate only on voting terms and micro-party terms? And legislate, as you can see, today in plenary and it is sincerely sad with the Members of the SYRIZA and the "TRIGYRIZA"! But more dangerous is that you legislate, Minister, and don't laugh, you'll hear them...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u156	I'm not laughing at you, I'm talking to Mr. Fotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u157	Don't laugh, you'll hear it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u158	Don't hold a dialogue with the Minister and the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u159	The most dangerous, however, Mr Minister, is that you are legislating with political blackmail, at the University of Patras, at the University of Peloponnese, as the dean at the hearing confirmed: "You will either accept the merger of both TEIs or get none". Handmade copying, which unfortunately touches and finishes education! All these, Minister, are like a valve in a pot, like our people, ready to fly with the announcement of the elections. Incidentally, you referred to the University of Ioannina as a brilliant example and at the same time a statement was made by the Ioannina University, which effectively condemns and perpetuates your current legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u160	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u161	Now, look for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u162	Today, now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u163	Now the senator's out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u164	You are addressing this House, Mrs Antoniou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u165	But you, Mr Gabroglou, do the dirty work you need and then leave politics. So this is SYRIZA's democracy. And not only this, but with all the new sections that you are creating clearly in the election and vote, Minister, in the worst way local communities. You're sending them new university departments in their towns. However, you are not talking about whether it is functionally still mortal, about the rights of graduates, whether they can be financed, served with the necessary teaching staff, or whether they will be another one of your election announcements. The same applies to the universities in western Macedonia. We've been celebrating the four years of SYRIZA government's lies, we've been full of announcements left on the bells and to see if it's your last lie. I will give you an example here, Minister. You are creating new mathematical schools in Central and Kastoria. We thank you for your vote. As a congressman, I tell you, do us seventy schools. But can you really testify to the needs of establishing these schools, rehabilitating the graduates? Do you care what those graduates will do after, if they find a job? Have you examined the needs of the country in the skills and professions it needs? Did you take them into account in the reorder of your academic map, what you say you're doing? For the pan-Hellenics it is a big deal. I think we're going back, unfortunately, Minister, after Mr. Tsipras's shows and your cubs. We've practically lost count of how many changes you've made. The tragic case, however, Mr Minister, is that Mr Tsipras' cystisms and shows have a direct impact on the lives of hundreds of thousands of families, who did not really know what will dawn them. So today you come and what are you doing? Restore the old system of the four links, of course intertwined, with your own ideas and separate schools from them in free access and after examinations. Two high-speed schools. Our rapporteur told you too. So now we're going to the research provisions. With today's bill, the Minister concludes the parallel research system launched by Law 4559/2018 and the establishment of the new REC, University Research Centres, which include an extremely large number of institutes, but without any design on infrastructure, services, staff and no feasibility study. Mr Fotakis, we have repeatedly stressed this in the previous bills, both me and the Greek Investigators' Association, but a voice of voodoo in the wilderness! You carry on the destructive work unconsciously. The structures you set up are not compatible with the implementation of a single national research policy, they do not rely on the current research legislative framework, rather they violate the provisions on the establishment of new research centres, including the report by the ESRB. You created it, you had it in the law. They strengthen fragmentation instead of synergy and create overlappings in the thematics. They're backing up... [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing.]] Give me two more minutes, Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u166	No, I won't give you two minutes yet. One minute and you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u167	They are therefore strengthening internalisation, instead of extroverting, but also requiring new resources, as they are planned to be financed from the ordinary budget. It is enough to set up research institutes without plan and planning, to unnecessarily smash public money! We should at last emphasise how to make use of existing research organisations, make synergies and increase extroverty. That's the target. And since I referred to the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Fotakis, I think it is the most appropriate time for him to answer here, since he has so far not done so in the relevant question and in the ACP question I have tabled to him, a copy of which I shall be tabling for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Maria Antoniou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I am of course referring to the recent media revelations that Mr Fotakis' son received in 2017 a scholarship of EUR 27,000 from the ELIDEK as a doctorate for the Agricultural University. Mr Fotakis, for three years as rapporteur for the New Democracy in your relevant bill, I directly accused you of creating the ELIDEK, an institution supposedly independent and autonomous, but in fact controlled by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u168	Mrs. Antoniou, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u169	I was talking about opacity...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u170	Do you hear me, Mrs. Antoniou, or do I speak with a voice of a oxen in the wilderness?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u171	...to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u172	Please, finish up, I've given you four more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u173	In three years, then, you have changed the evaluation three times. To be fair, when I accused you of wanting to direct funding to your own children, I said it transportly, and I could not imagine that this phrase would be a literal sense. Unfortunately, Mr Fotakis, we will see them in the answers you are asked to give us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u174	All right, you're done, Mrs. Anthony.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u175	Did you give our lists more...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u176	Mrs. Anthony, I'll turn off the microphone, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u177	What I want to say is that we will all do a great deal of effort in order to get back to education and Greece in front of us, because you drag it back to 1981. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u178	You don't even go to the Middle Ages with that populism!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u179	Listen, ladies and gentlemen, those who are voting at the Conference of Presidents will also take responsibility for time. I said instead of five, seven minutes. It will not be at the expense of the last Members who, if the political leaders speak, will probably stay without speaking. Seven minutes is the time. Otherwise, I beg your pardon very much, from now on I will close the microphone and nothing will be recorded in the Minutes, because I do not agree that the fifty or fifty-five should speak and that ten colleagues who will not speak tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u180	It's happened before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u181	That's exactly why I'm saying it, no offense. Neither my position nor after me as President-in-Office is pleasant, but if we go to ten minutes, that will happen. The next speaker was Mr Synthrakis, who is speaking in committee right now. I won't erase him. Because Mr Pitsirlas who wants the floor for three minutes for an amendment has come, I will give him the floor, and if Mr Synthrakis is not here, we will proceed with Mr Kourakis later, until he arrives. Mr. Pittsorlas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u183	Minister, I saw you. I'm the one who determines it. The ministers have no greater right than the Members. I saw you, I understand what you want, after Mr. Pittsorla I'll give you the floor. Don't interrupt me again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u184	I will be very brief, Mr President. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This is an amendment by the Ministry of Economy and Development which has four or five points. One concerns the issues of EFSA, the Single Independent Public Procurement Authority. They concern, in particular, legislative improvements to the operation of the SADCS. An issue which is not legal, concerns the possibility of EFSA, if it finds infringements in the execution of a tender, and until now it can simply suspend the tendering procedure, this amendment can also take place at a stage where EFSA can make comments and request corrections and adjustments and run the procedure. A second point, which is not also legal, concerns the setting up of three organic positions to assist the work of the president of EASA. The second point of the amendment concerns the general regulation on the protection of personal data. Provision is made for a provision whereby the Minister of Economy appoints a controller for the processing of personal data under the Regulation for those involved in the implementation of co-financed projects. This is an adaptation to the general regulation of personal data and does not have any particular issues. The third point concerns issues relating to the operation of the Greek Chamber of Economics. And here's in full agreement with the Chamber of Economics, we don't have any problems. Because the Chamber of Economics with the latest laws, which have been passed on to anonymous companies and other issues, has a very increased role to play, it adapts the Chamber of Economics to the needs of today. The next point also concerns the chambers of the country in general, the solution of the urban companies set up by the chambers throughout the country, in order to meet staff needs. These urban companies and staff are being transferred to the chambers. We are in agreement with the OSCE, there is an absolute agreement and I do not think there is a question here either. The latter concerns the participation of the LAGs in the management bodies of the business parks and the management bodies of informal industrial mergers, and this is because of the fact that there was a division, whether or not they have the right to do so. We're clarifying it so they can work. On all these issues with the chambers we also have an absolute agreement and I think it is just and I do not need to trouble you any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u185	Although Mr. Synthrakis is here, I would ask him to remain in his place. Obviously the Minister wants the floor, Mr Fotakis, on personal grounds. Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u186	For what Mrs Antoniou said, I would like to say that she has actually tabled a question and that is where she will receive comprehensive answers, documented by all the evidence. What I would like to say is that I really understand the stress problem, which comes from a lack of arguments. This is a stressful opposition that leads to this level of opposition. I wonder whether the leader of the New Democracy really takes the approach. The second thing I would like to say is that it is insurmountable to the ELIDEC, which actually acts as a kind of independent authority, to all those who are involved, the thirty-seven representatives from universities and research centres - by internal procedures - who choose them - the scientific board chosen by these representatives, respectively the advisory committee and, of course, the two thousand benefiting from ELIDEC, which, according to Mrs Antony, are 'our own children'. I think that is a prerequisite for what will happen in the elections if all of them are our children. So I would like to close by asking myself a question. Let them say openly, those who think that from New Democracy, that they are going to abolish the law of the ELIDEEC - has said this many times - and by abolishing the law of ELIDEEC, the ELIDEEC will also be abolished. Let's go out and tell the academic community and see the applause they'll collect then.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u188	Mrs. Antoniou, you don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u189	He made reference to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u190	There's no staff, he didn't swear you, he answered you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u191	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u192	Mrs. Antonio, there is no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u193	He made a personal reference to me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u194	When I speak, please don't talk to a Member. A personal issue, then, is not there, but because I do not want time to be lost, you have a minute at your disposal. Answer what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, the Minister referred to the press release and the communiqué today, speaking of 'broken', 'destruct' and 'hardness'. All I care about and care about the Greek people is for Mr. Fotakis to answer whether this is just slander or a reality. That's what we're interested in, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u196	Ask a question to answer in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u197	And what I invite him to answer and know from the Greek people, Mr President, is whether this money - which he said would testify to us - was taken with a loan and where they are going. That is what we are asking for, Mr President, and that is what we ask the Minister to do. That's why I invited him to give them to us, with a question I submitted to him. From that point on, these are not vulgar. Reality and truth are neither obscene nor insult. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u198	The Minister has promised that he will answer you and I hope that his promise will be kept. Mr Colleagues, since you were not in the Chamber, I would like to inform you that, because the time is short, seven minutes will be given to all the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u199	The "bug" bill, which is now passed and debated with fast track procedures, provides for a classroom, high school, a permanent school, an endless marathon that will look even further at students in the pocket and universities shops of business and the market in each region and industry, beyond and outside the real popular needs. Among other things, the draft law provides for the universityisation of TEI Crete under the name "Medical University". His case confirms in a distinctive way what the JRC denounces from the first time that the government's firm started to reorder the map of higher education in the country, i.e. that the SYRIZA Government, through its interventions, continues on the path taken by the previous governments and intensifies the categorisation of institutions, diplomas and graduates. It is the decisive promotion of those agreed under the Bologna Process and the so-called'single space' of higher education and research in the European Union's strategic guidelines, market requirements for savings in terms of compensation, in terms of revenue and expenditure. There is no better evidence than aligning the changes that are being promoted in Crete with the priorities set at the development conference in September 2017 by the Government together with the Region of Crete. In this context is the universityization of the TEI, which, together with other institutions, has to adapt to the new productive model required by capitalist development in the region of Crete. The bill strengthens the categorisation of the graduates of the Foundation, while the School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Engineering already exists in the Polytechnic of Crete, Chania, which is five years old. The bill we are debating today proposes the establishment of a Department of Electrical and Engineering Computers, i.e. with the same object but with four years' duration in Chania and resulting from the merger of Departments of Electrical and Computer Engineering. It is a clear case, two different schools for the same subject, at a distance between them a few kilometres, with a different duration and a programme of study. In one respect, it seems like an absurd irrationalism. On the substance, however, this is a karibinatis illustration of the aims of the market strategy for higher education: young scientists, graduates from universities, who will constantly try to adapt their studies and professional profiles to the persuasive needs of each industry's magnificence entrepreneurs, who will be able to choose the few lucky ones from the classroom of graduates, with many waiting in the queue in search of better destiny, who will also act as a siege ram in order to put workers' demands on the risk of unemployment. It is considered that these schools will add the two-year courses of study that the government has recently given to finance, but also the three-year private colleges that now come with this bill to recognize. Others, however, show the example of the supposedly upgraded TEI of Crete. The bill we are discussing provides that hundreds of students of the Department of Natural Resources and the Environment, who are already in this department today, will actually be locked up in a ghost section until they get their degree. Their part shall be deleted. A Department of Chemical Engineering is being designed, the object of which is of little relevance to the subject of their studies, which is not going to work before 2020-2021. But why is the government doing this? Do scientific staff need to be involved in the exploitation of natural resources for the benefit of the people? No, of course not. We're barely needed more than we have today. Yet it seems that the scientists in this section do not fit in the designs of monopolies, whose hands you leave the exploitation of the environment and natural resources to the shoulder. The large projects of billions of euros for hydrocarbons, for electricity interconnection with Attica and Cyprus, investment in the RES, the projects of the Catalan 'POWERGLOBE' for Atherinolakkos, will not solve any problems facing our people. A hypocritical role in these projects will be called upon to play by the Institute for Research, Environment and Climate Change, which is planned to be set up at the University Research Centre, in an institute which will only have permanent employees, since no permanent posts are provided and, above all, will be financed by the large companies interested in the energy industry and some state-funded crumbs. That is why the development plans of capital are not and will never be for the benefit of our people. Instead, the government chooses to leave hundreds of students in the air, without teachers, workshops, secretaries. Another typical example of TEI Crete is that in the bill there is provision for a property management company of the Mediterranean University, a company managing grants, it will make loans, develop various other financial activities, divest the institution's assets, a real estate company, the property of which in fact passes the model Agricultural Technology in Crete, an institution that, while it seems, while in the words it will support studies and research in Georgia, will actually be a tool to support the implementation of the new Common Agricultural Policy in Crete, with the victim of poor small and medium-sized farms, since this is what the Euro-Union strategy calls for, that is what the Government of SYRIZA supports. The JRC calls on teachers, workers, students and all teachers not to be misled by the mockery of the SYRIZA Government, not to accept the draft law on the reform of the single higher education charter, to fight so that institutions are free to detract from the blockages of capital and to collide with the Communist Party of Greece and the Communist Youth of Greece, which are struggling for uniform higher education, exclusively in public and free for the benefit of social needs, so as to open up the way for the organisation of studies based on the real needs of our people, with full rights and recovery of the losses taken in the years of the crisis. It means fighting together for the effective upgrading of TEI Crete, to increase state funding to the level of needs, for free studies, for free feeding, housing, transportation, consumables. To say 'no' to the classifications between the institutions, their degrees and their graduates, so as not to abolish or merge any section, for a substantial upgrading of study, so that they fully cover the scientific subject and provide all the necessary facilities for work on the subject. The diploma should be the only condition for access to the profession, for a substantial upgrading of the new school of engineers, in order to become a five-year polytechnic school with all the necessary equipment and infrastructure, for the recruitment of permanent administrative training staff in all the areas needed to meet the needs of the upgraded studies. Ensure permanent and stable work for all employees at the TEI, for modern logistics infrastructures and equipment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, too. Mr Anastasios Kourakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are discussing today is completing a great reform effort by the government in relation to the country's academic map. The focus of this reform is the synergies between the universities and the TEIs of the country and the creation of new major academic high education and research poles, which have always been one of the main objectives of the left-wing programme for public education. This is a process which lasted for about two years and for the completion of which there was a need for exhaustive dialogue. This dialogue is also the notified difference in this effort with that of the 'ATHENA' project, which was imposed on the top and which took no account of any criteria other than that of the financial restriction. One of the most characteristic examples of this new academic architecture is the new International University of Greece, which will be one of the largest academic cities in the country with a spatial diaspora in Thessaloniki, the eastern and central Macedonia with fifty thousand students, and in particular with a new way of working, combining study in Greek, language, distance learning, the possibility of addressing non-European students as well as the prospect of partnership with other Greek universities for the preparation of joint curricula. Minister, at this point I would also like to focus on some of the other issues of education policy regulated by the bill. First of all, I should like to refer to an amendment we have tabled with Nikos Parafopoulos, which concerns the possibility of issuing a certificate of language learning through serious and delimited procedures for the Albanian, Arabic, Bulgarian, Romanian, Russian, Serbian and Turkish institutions of the Aimos Peninsula Studies Foundation. I think that this amendment can come to the attention of the Ministry and be accepted. Also, I have the impression that when I had mentioned the case of subjecting TEFA to health sciences in Patras and Crete, you told me that this would not happen, as the character of health sciences or rehabilitation sciences is altered and can graduates of TEFA, as they will study in health science schools, have professional rights of the style of professional education.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u202	We changed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u203	Very positive. Thank you. Also, one topic that you mentioned in your speech in a positive way, from what I have seen, is the development of scientists working as laboratory teaching staff and special training staff in ICP members' posts after a crisis. We know very well that these scientists have increased academic qualifications, work at the EITs of the country, and it is legitimate that they can evolve as members of the IPAs, since they of course have formal and substantial qualifications. I repeat, after a crisis. This possibility, as you know, was given by Mr. 4415/2016, but was set out in the next legislative intervention. I think that this provision can be reintroduced. I saw that you were dealing with it positively, and you said that at the beginning of the summer the provision that will take care of them will come. They're about a thousand people, as you know. There is a Community directive regulating the issue of regulated professions. There's also an inspirational institution of professional equivalence. I propose that it should not apply to regulated professions and at the end of paragraph 3 of Article 2, that a subparagraph should be added which says that the provisions on recognition of professional equivalence do not apply to regulated professions. Finally, Minister, I would like to close by expressing my concern at the arrangements introduced by Article 98 for colleges. I think we should be very careful not to spread to a de facto bypass of Article 16 of the Constitution. We must not allow automatic access to professional rights of scientists in college degrees. In the way we do, we recognize someone who has studied at a college in England through a certification body to obtain this certification. But you know that it's another thing to be registered in the Chambers of Business in England, France, Germany, which is another procedure. If anyone has the ability to work through permission from these chambers, yes, of course, really then to come to Greece. But not the way we put it. In other words, the SPS has been abolished, which had some procedures and examinations, and in its position that we have another body that will obtain certification from the foreign organisation and in accordance with paragraph 5 after the issue of this certificate. I read: 'the applicant is entitled to pursue the profession in accordance with the provisions of the legislation in force. The competent professional organisation or the competent administrative authority shall be required without delay to act on such registration.' I think that in the context of my speech and in the review of this article the provision that professional chamber associations are required to register college graduates and grant them professional rights without any wording. I think that if this provision goes through, it won't make any sense for someone to study medicine or law at the public university, since it will have open access to this profession through college. Let's see this because I think, Minister, we're moving marginally until we've become diluted to the overthrow of Article 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u204	As I had said before, after Mr Kourakis, the parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, Mr Javarra, will be given the floor. The five to follow is Mr. Baxvanakis, Mrs. Karamanlis, Mr. Andrianos, Mr. Antoniadis, Mrs. Also, the Parliamentary Representatives of twelve minutes will have fifteen minutes to be able to make their position more complete. Mr. Javarra, stay there. Don't come down. I'm sorry. I should like to give Mr Stathakis three minutes' speech to defend his amendment from his position to leave. And right after you take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u205	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Javarra, because he's the one giving his place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. I'll be very brief. The amendment is of secondary importance. It clarifies a matter for inspectors of the Ministry's Special Secretariat regarding the control of quartz activities. In other words, it extends the costs, the costs, the costs, the training, the supplies of technical equipment to which that service is entitled. It gives some extensions to the first and second grade buildings. It has been given to legal persons governed by public law and private law. It wasn't given to the Ottas. It gives various other extensions for the structured environment law as regards the reduction of the 10% fine, for supporting the old arbitrary law, in order to put additional static documents and others that they have not done. I shall therefore dwell on two important articles. The first is that we introduce the institution of the ombudsman designated by the TEI. If we have a conflict, the building inspector comes in, finds an irregularity, arbitrary or arbitrary, disagree with the engineer on the extent and content of arbitrage, rather than solving the problem - which will eventually be resolved in the relevant committee of the region or the Ministry - the institution of the Ombudsman is introduced, that is to say, a engineer who will take both opinions and may lead to an agreement between the two parties, without having to resort to the final committee. It will be provided by decision and the contents in detail and the characteristics of the ombudsman and the conditions for this. The second important thing is to amend Articles 116 and 117 again for the structured environment. It is about buildings, which are newly preserved, which are monuments of global heritage or arbitrary constructions or uses of category 5, as we say, for cultures of cultural interest. There are two procedures in place here. The approval to be granted by the Ministry of Culture and Sport after a reasoned opinion from the relevant Board. This applies in any case to the monuments of global heritage in category 5 et seq. In other cases, however, the opinion of the Ministry of Culture is sufficient. This opinion is either given or not, a time limit is introduced and then it goes to the committee that has introduced the law, as you know, of 2017, where we no longer have two distinct committees, but a joint committee of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Spatial Planning, so that citizens are not troubled with these procedures. These are the two basics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u208	Good. Mr. Javarras has been standing long enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u209	I apologise to Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u210	Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u211	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, every time I hear of Mr Gavroglou coming to our wing here, to the right of this House, to the right of Parliament, and to abdicate us for what we have not done or for what we have done wrong, and every time many of you go up to this Step and are critically addressing us, rather than disturbing, I feel relieved because I really am pleased to hear you show how different we are. Minister, today I heard you talk about the magic of the text. Indeed, it is very important for a Minister of Education to say so, both he and his predecessors have taken an interest in the texts of classical education to make them accessible to middle school. So this magic of the text I think is used in your lips in the sense of the Prime Minister's words that SYRIZA "has a place in his words"! And indeed, today another point I made is that both you and some other colleagues here on the one hand and Mr Friends on the other, you must not reside in the same language address, because you are using different words to say the same thing! And you're gonna tell me, that's random? No, it's no accident at all, because there are two kinds of text or language magic. One is the one who feels the language and when he comes into contact with a Latin or ancient Greek text, he enjoys it. This means, however, that it must have previously been taught the ancient Greek language, which your perception of how ancient Greeks should be taught. In fact, I think Mr. Friend said it was a dead language. The second magic, which is what SYRIZA uses, is what it is called "magic use of the language". It is this use of language used by propagandaists who generally use texts to contact people who do not know how the language works and by these texts they are trapped. For example, is today's bill, which is how it is signed? You say 'a synergy or synergy between universities and TEI'. But if we are to have synergy, Mr Minister, you know better than I do, it means that at least two bodies working together or working together must have the will to direct each other to the same result, and that, of course, must be the product of their free will. Tell me which of the cases where you made at least mergers or dismantlings or changes between TEI and IEI you had this particular synergy, in the sense of at least knowing it to those who know the meanings of words, at least from the current dictionaries. You corrected me at the beginning of the procedure, telling me that I am not well informed when I told you that the Church of the University of Patras with twenty-three votes against ten did not accept and rejected the bill. And within this bill, Minister, it is the Legal School, which you say unanimously accepted it, and the Agrinio Agricultural University, which also unanimously accepted it. So be careful to see what the magic of the tongue does, in the sense that I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u212	Lawyer? Did she accept it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u213	I'll talk to you later. I want to have a dialogue with you. I want to have a dialogue with you. But it's a precondition to let me finish my thoughts. I'll listen with respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u214	Let me find out, let me get this straight. Did she take the law or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u215	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u216	That's not my problem, that's not what I'm interested in! I'm interested in something else, and that's why I talk every time. And you know, whoever speaks has a privilege. He shall determine the subjectmatter of his speech. Because if you think that I am being disfellowshipped, when you talk to me about another subject, which does not concern me, obviously you do not do what the honest democratic parliamentary dialogue imposes, because you are using the magic of the language, not the way I have said before, but in order to falsify, cover up, in order to create, on the basis of words, another level of approach, which is the real reality. That is why I am telling you that this is the first issue. Secondly, I will talk about something that I have dealt with a great deal, because it is about my place. In Articles 35, 36 and 37, you set up new departments at the University of Patras, you also rename other departments, and here is a matter. Is there a problem in this provision of Article 35 and 36 in contrast to the provisions of Articles 5 and 10 of your own law, of Law 4485 on the organization of higher education? Because that is where it says that when we have a merger or a rename of departments, a presidential decree is needed, which is issued on your own initiative, but we also need the agreement of the university's consortium. That is why I referred to the decision and opinion of the Senate on the bill, where there is a greater majority and - besides this - the Independent Quality Assurance Authority of Higher Education also needs an opinion. There is no such thing, of course, I did not see it indicated by the Scientific Committee. Another point which also impresses me - which, if the President of the Republic were here, in his friendly method in such cases, would call it 'the fruit plan' - is that you actually have the impression that you are dealing with issues, and in fact you are doing nothing but transferring things to the next government in the way you have decided. I will explain to you one specific example: You say, for example, in Article 36, paragraphs 1, 2 and 3: "The Tower of Elias will be founded and TECF". This TEFA, however, will not work from next academic year, it will operate academicly from a next academic year, which you do not define but depend on some sects. And these sects are two. In the future, we are the lawyers, who depend on the results of the implementation of the law. That decision will be adopted, therefore, firstly, if it has been established by reasoned decision that the necessary logistical infrastructure is to be provided and secondly, since there is also the necessary and sufficient training staff. This is not going to happen, as you know, because senators are always complaining about a lack of educational staff and a lack of logistics. So, essentially, the issue will depend on the extent to which the conflict and pressure of the Senate of the University of Patras will result in a government retreat. You, of course, avoided this bitter glass, because that's exactly what you wanted. You wanted it through the chosen colleagues elected in the constituency of Elijah to be forged on the electoral market. In fact, you will allow me here to lie to you personally, because I thought you had democratic opinions. And the democratic views of a minister would be imposed when he calls on the parliamentarians of a region to call on them all. You, therefore, following the practices of other ministers of the government, such as Mr Spirtzis, such as Mr Arahovitis, are making individual invitations to the SYRIZA MPs of the Prefecture of Elias, to make secret counsels. In other words, we are unconscious of the government, even though we are taking part in the sovereign body of the House, from which you have the confidence to date. So that's something that doesn't suit democrats. However, I am telling you this because in the explanatory statement you say that one of the elements you have assessed and one of the needs that you are seeking to satisfy through this bill is local development. So local development in the region of Elias you should know that it has two elements: The cultural reserve that is the object of the global cultural heritage and is called Ancient Olympia. It is where since 1875 the German Archaeological School has started excavations, which continue to date, and yet you choose the Department of History and Archaeology to take it to Agrinio. Is it true what the local economy or the local society or the local geography or, if you like, the local cultural environment of Agrinio, which requires such a school to go there? And you bring Elias a school called School of Music, because you had to, because they actually shut down the TEIs at the Tower and bring it there and join the School of Social and Humanities. What does Musicology have to do with all this stuff? As also, the School of Foodstuffs incorporate it into Human Health Restoration Sciences, that is to say you are making it a professional means of exercising health training. Who are you kidding, Minister, honestly? I would now like to address Mr Phile because I said that you are residing in a different language address with the Minister. Mr Philly, the experimental and standard schools were indeed made to serve excellence, but this excellence for those on the left is not a sign of elitism. It's not about the economic elite, it's about excellence. I will invoke one of the greatest philosophers of the 20th century, Pier Bourdier, who together with Budon and after years of research in the field of the sociology of education, has given us as a scientific presumption that, although it is in the educational field of society, there is a means of saving for those who come from low family and social levels and that is excellence. Because, as these two wise men say, excellence is the possibility offered to him who does not have the class signs of courtesy, that is, to him, who is a descendant of a rural or micro-family family, to make the hostile social opposition, that is, that is, that makes him dragged and unable to participate in this reproduction with the mood of sovereignty, in a positive distinction that is made and achieved through excellence. Through excellence, therefore, it became possible for children who came and descended from very poor families to have become professors in Harvard, to have gone to NASA and be Greek-slaughter and all to be charming today. But, if you ask them, what gave them the right to prevail and fight and defeat their class origin, it is precisely the operation of such schools in Greece. So, if you really want to contribute to making an investment in education, as it has done twenty years ago and today it is dominating internationally in this field, Finland will be helping us by bringing us bills, which, in fact, meet the current needs of society, in order to regenerate a new model, which will be linked to production and which will make use of both the economic and social conditions of the sites. But what do you do? You take your MPs, you use them as middlemen and you go and you come in contact with the mayors and the various locals, and you sell them a fact that you think in the next election you will be won. But you are sad, because you will lose, lose, and you will remain a sad parentheses in the history of this place. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u217	It is known in this House that our meeting from the upper west theory is twenty - eight students and students and four fellow teachers from a school in France. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u219	Minister, listen, I'll give you the floor for a minute. But the tactics for anyone who says they do not like what he says, to ask me for the floor on staff, will not be done. I'll give you the floor for a minute. You keep your notes, and although there is no secondaryity for the urgency procedure you have recommended, tomorrow you will also be given a short second word to answer. But we will not go so whenever someone is addressed to the Minister, the Minister will say 'on staff'. Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u220	First of all, do not interpret what personnel are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u221	Whatever it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u222	Look out, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u223	Do you want me to go to the normal procedure, have a minute to tell me the staff, and I have the right to judge whether they are or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u224	Sure. You want to judge it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u225	Well, don't go like this now. I'm more experienced than you at least in these benches here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u226	You want to judge it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u227	Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u228	There is one point when a Member of Parliament tells another Member that his democratic morale in so far as it is part of the democratic arch parties is questioned. These are red lines, Mr. Javarra, and I'd be beg you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u229	I've explained why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u230	Please! I would ask you not to repeat them. It happens to Sparta, when the mayor came and all the MPs came along, because they asked me to. You...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u231	Did you call me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u232	They asked me to do so, and I said yes, as my colleagues have asked. You won't forbid me to see anyone I want who asks me to. And I challenge a congressman whoever party has asked me to have said no. One. You draw up communications - that is what you make - complaints, in essence, about them. Secondly, unfortunately you are not well informed. TECHA is not at the School of Health Sciences, you must be a little read. It's not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u233	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u234	So what you said is not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u235	What do you mean, it's not? Did you get it? If you got it, I don't know it. I know the texts I had until yesterday in my hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u236	Here's what I'm telling you. You don't read.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u237	I read very well. If you had, then explain why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u238	We have it, you just don't read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u239	I admit I didn't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u240	The last one is this. We should give the conventionors the opportunity to decide when it will be the launch of certain sections. We won't do it like you did. You have to decide that we have a different way of thinking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u242	You have the floor for a minute, because only you can't tell anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u243	Indeed, Mr Minister, you have the right and no one will take it away from you, to call as your interlocutors. Alas! I would be the last person to criticise this right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u244	Whoever's asking me to. Did you ask me to?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u245	But as Minister, you do not have the right to authorize majority MPs to state what will happen to the Tower, Sparta and Patras. You have no right to that, and I denounce that. This is a cheap political behaviour, which is not only worthy of Members of the Greek Parliament, but above all of people who have the academic titles you have. As far as I am concerned, since I am not in general questioning your democratic formation or your democratic style, the secretarily making meetings at the expense of other representatives of the Greek people is not compatible with the general culture of parliamentaryism and democracy that must prevail here. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u246	Mr Dimitrios Baxvanakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, perhaps the most decisive step towards the completion of the single area of higher education and research in our country. A request for decades of the educational movement of teachers, but also students, is implemented by this government, and that is what matters. And it is impressive, at least from the progressive and left-wing spaces, when this request has been coming for decades, that there should be again the usual withdrawal not in everything else. I am not going to talk to the previous colleague from Elias, even though he has given me many reasons. I am simply saying that the world, the democratic world throughout the country and also Elias in particular, can compare the great reformation that is taking place today in the reform of the university charter throughout the country, with which Elias is for the first time part of the country's university things, with the monetarism of the 2013 "ATHENA" project, in which the colleagues of the New Democracy and PASOK elected in Elia, who literally dissolved higher education, have not even been given the courage today to defend it. But the main reason I asked for the floor today is to talk about the changes that are taking place in general high school. I want to make five comments. Firstly, there is a full hypocrisy from all sides of the counterpopulation. What hypocrisy? Everyone swears in the name of general education, we are all in favour of general education all of a sudden. Really? Talk to teachers who teach in the 3rd grade of general high school, tell you what happens in the hours of so-called general education? You two talkin'? You probably don't talk, because if you talked, you wouldn't say what you're talking about here today. There is no general education, at least in the third grade of general high school. Unfortunately, not only political forces who are supposed to be called left-wing trade unions but also trade unions who have had a prestige in the educational community for some time. Unfortunately, this no longer exists, as can be seen from the number of teachers who follow these trade unions. What's the bill doing? Acknowledges a reality, the reality that students and their families live in, knowing that after the end of high school they have to participate in a competitive process and by seeking to achieve this competitive process. So far, who undertakes to prepare the students for this process? Institutions outside school, schools and special courses. Do we want to close our eyes on this? The bill says the following. He wants the school to take as much weight as it can in the preparation of the students, to contribute the public school, so with fewer courses and more teaching hours to help children in this great effort. What conclusion is made on the basis of common sense? If the teacher has more time to do with his students and students to help them, does the logic say that children will need more extra-school help from that reason? That's absurd. If school can help you longer with more hours, logic says you'll probably need less or no extra - school help. So this is trying to do school, and at the same time - and this has not been noted to date - a first - coward is the truth - a reduction in the number of students in every section of the classroom. Of the twenty-seven children as a ceiling, the number in the daily schools is reduced to twenty-five and in the sperms is reduced to a maximum of twenty-two children, helping to improve the course in order. Third comment. We're talking about general education. The bill makes a serious effort to ensure that at least the second grade of general school is a general education class. You know in this class today there are courses of direction. With the bill, however, this is abolished and we are trying at least to save the second class because it is in serious danger, as the teachers well know, and to become a class of general education. Really, I didn't hear you agree with this change in the second grade so that there are no directions and guidance groups? I didn't hear anything. It's hard to say a good reason? It's not bad. Fourth comment. What is the value, ladies and gentlemen, of the general high school diploma today? Ask the families, the students? A young man who has a general high school certificate what's in his hands? Absolutely nothing. What's the bill doing? It is trying to obtain a credibility in the way in which the examination process is organised. Before we look at it, before we look at its first implementation, which the bill wisely disconnects the first application from the access process, it is precisely to see how this process will go, how it will gradually take place - step by step - to acquire the credibility of the high school. I say, Minister, that it may take this one year which is not counting on access, from things may take a second year and a third year perhaps, which may not count the dismissal until it has the necessary credibility. Finally, many colleagues say that with this bill the general school becomes an examination centre. Really? Do we know today how many lessons students are studying in the three grades of general high school? Forty-three lessons. With the changes now taking place, how many lessons will the students be considered from now on in three classes? Eighteen. Forty-three lessons are currently being examined, eighteen will be examined tomorrow. You probably don't call that an "examination load" of that. A number of colleagues from the Opposition and, above all, the Left need to turn to some dictionaries of the Greek language. Maybe it's not bad. I'll finish this. On a permanent basis in all the bills of at least the Ministry of Education, but also in many others, it is the requirement of almost all of the Anti-Population and of trade union organizations to withdraw. Yes, sir. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, have the impression that in the educational world, this initiative is being heard? Does anyone hear it from the teachers or the students? Have you heard these weeks when this conversation is taking place in high school, in high school, incitement to withdraw it, so keep things as they are? So, at today's dawn, anyone hears it? I think people are sick of screaming, people want proposals. Proposals, therefore, when they are not made either by the political forces or by the trade unions, only lead to the depreciation and loss of credibility of those who produce them. The government dares and people know how to reward those who dare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u248	Mr Ana Karamanlis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are called on to discuss and vote a bill of two hundred and twenty-three articles on education in the dawn - shut down and procedures under'spray - wipe - finish', with urgent procedures and within the Great Week, obviously because it is convenient for schools and universities to be closed. This is not the first time, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you are following this unacceptable tactic. In this case, however, you have not complied with the pretexts, and we have to express our views and vote on so many important issues as hunted, with manipulations that do not honor neither the parliamentary process nor the educational community, which is directly affected by your plans. Just before your government's term of office is over, you're bringing in a bill - ashtray. For purely electoral reasons, you are giving the charismatic shot in the field of education, which you have been afflicted in the last four years. While the international trend is to strengthen technological education, you are originalizing and extinguishing it from the map. At a time when we should invest in it, taking into account the needs of the labour market, you are downgrading it by the highest level. You continue the patent of TEI Conversion to universities, which you are baptizing "upgrade", without evaluation, without a structured plan, without feasibility studies, without strictly predetermined academic criteria. The good mill is grinding everything up. That is why the bill has caused intense reactions, reactions that are not just from opposition parties. The strong disapproval of the large portion of the academic and educational world should at least concern you. So go on to these actions, playing the well-known game of trade interests and doing it with bazaars and lisperia on the limit of blackmail, as reported, with threats, terrible and ultimatum to the republican authorities, in order to consent to your plans. The whole project is not governed by any clear and transparent logic. You have set in your election banner the establishment of another legal school, without substantiating the need for this, without worrying about saturation in the legal sector and the lack of professional absorption of thousands of lawyers, without encouraging you to direct the direct opposition of all the legal schools and all the legal associations of the country. Do you, on the one hand, leave the existing subscribed and reduced funding subsidized and, on the other, build new ones that require multiple costs? A number of agronomic sections are therefore created. Is there some study, how many geopolitics do we need as an economy and as a society? What will be their object, for example, and what will their graduates' professional rights? Merge a Social Work Department with the Pedagogical Department. What does the curriculum of both departments have to do with bringing together? What will be the scientific identity of the graduates? Will they be teachers, or will they be social workers? Is there any international practice where these two cognitive objects are taught together? All the polytechnics and TEIs have addressed you strongly I blame for the inseparable conversion of TEI departments into multitechnical departments. Why all this rush? To prevent computers and sell publishing to the children that you put them in the polytechnic? You have been feeding them for two years that you will abolish the pan-Hellenic exams with a law and an article and since, fortunately, this has not been done, in one night you double the multi-technical divisions. Thirty-five thousand engineers have been looking for their luck abroad for the last five years, according to the Polytechnic dean and you are launching their numbers. What plan? In what polytechnics and with what infrastructure? Are you building polytechnics in six months without serious funding and without personnel? How did some TEIs which so far have not been considered to be equal to polytechnics or to an academic or professional level, with a magic wand and with a seal, become universities? If these departments are still four years old, will their graduates not be second grade, with limited or zero professional rights? Is there any specific targeting from all of this? Is there a clear stigma coming up? Is there any reformist breath discerned? All we see to be confirmed is that reordering the academic map obeys customer service and general election. By sharing degrees without reflection, do you think that you offer good services to our children, to the educational system, to our economy or to our society? In fact, you are sending young people to the demands of unemployment or migration and leaving a great gap in the technological field at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen, let's now go to the changes in high school and in the system of introduction to higher education, after conflicting announcements and countless arrivals - arrivals where you were speaking of free access and the other you restored the pan-Hellenic, students and parents to experience this inconvenience and uncertainty, not knowing what dawns them. Because it has been said if we talk to parents and students, I tell you that I am the mother of a girl who has been giving all over the world this year and in the last three and a half years we have been living with absolute and enormous stress, waiting for the new and innovative to finally serve the packages of the 1980s with little free access. So you bring a plan that separates the sections into free access and access by pan-Hellenic examinations. The fact that this distinction comes into parts of two gears constitutes an upgrade? Legislation leads to further depreciation of parts with low preferences and free access. The famous free access will take place with the degree of graduation from high school, which will be counted by 10% and for the introduction through pan-Hellenic examinations from next year. The dismissal resulting from the account taken of the oral grade and the intra-school examinations will not be equivalent since the issues will not arise from a bank of matters or from a central source. How do you ensure that the issues will have the same degree of difficulty and will not distort the results of the examinations and, therefore, the introduction to universities? Does this not affect the intactness of the examinations? Does it not affect a renowned institution in the consciousness of all Greeks for decades? In the standards and experimental schools that you have been undermining since the start of your government service, you are trying to give a final blow. It is obvious that these schools do not stand out. You psalmize their autonomy at all levels with the aim of deterioration both in their target and in their operation. Do you think this makes it easier for these schools to offer high-demand educational work, to strengthen their extroversion and to develop the teaching methods, or to lead them to the downward equation? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the Government brings in a draft law on education, which creates supermarket universities, without any coherence and homogeneity, which undermines the educational character of high school and brings about a draft problem, less fair and less reciprocity for university introduction. A bill that validates its idealism and intolerance to standards and experimental schools. Mr Gavroglou will soon be a past from both the ministerial officer and the political scene of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u250	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u251	As far as the government is concerned, which turns education into a micropolitical adjustment tool in the most cynical way, let it be realised that, despite escapism, the electoral account is not coming out. Society has turned your back on you. You can no longer frame her or deceive her. And that will be understood in the most emphatic way in the polls coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u252	Mr Ioannis Andrianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today reveals in the most resounding way the deadlock in which a government is currently on its way. While the extremely problematic forecasts of the bill clearly have as their sole view the service of micro-participatory purposes, at the same time the government had to pass this multi-project through the urgency process and bring it to plenary on the Great Week, when schools and schools are closed, in an effort to minimize the already intense reactions from the whole educational community. The government's methods are clearly panic movements. The urgency procedure, by which you asked the members of the committee to study within a few hours a text of more than a thousand pages with more than two hundred 20 provisions, does not mean that the urgency has not been reduced to a minimum. A panic reveals how you dealt with the responses of the educational community. The Minister's getting to the point of ironing fires. It is a panic that the blackmailing and dealings that have been denounced and described are completely contrary to the seriousness and responsibility of the critical issue of education, the national issue of education. The most important conclusion, however, that is drawn from this story, is that populism, levelling down, the service of the "logues" has no influence on the educational community and the Greek society, which requires a substantial improvement in the quality of the education received by our children and our young people. So, what are you trying to do with this bill? First of all, you complete the levelling-up of technological education. You move on to fragmentation and merging without anyone at all, without an assessment of academic, development and social results, without feasibility and sustainability studies, without guaranteeing the professional rights of graduates. Not only did you ask for the opinion of the IPPC, but as it is said, you traded in the limits of threats with the rector authorities of educational institutions, parts that were going here one day, the next day they were going elsewhere. Another fact that there is no strategic planning. Also, the settings you enter for high school do not upgrade it, which is what is needed. So every so long, the Ministry's political leadership, when the government was in a difficult position because of its policy, was rushing to announce heavy announcements about the abolition of the pan-Hellenic exams and the upgrading of high school. Announcing that the Prime Minister himself repeated several times. For two years we have heard different exercises on paper, each one different from the other, but, lastingly. Disastrousness and anxiety among students and students who were to give examinations. And today you are coming with a change, which not only improves the weaknesses of the former system, but is a clear and strong development towards the negative. Keep the exams, you are effectively returning to the link system, and you are introducing the unacceptable separation between popular and non-popular schools. You call on children to exclude themselves from the examination process and not to try to introduce them into their school of preference, while today the schools you want to exclude from the examination system have available places for those who did not do so very well. And that is why the gift of present is afflicting the intact and equivalency of the system, you are afflicting the autonomous educational role of high school and increasing uncertainty, as, despite the two years of your supposed preparation, leaving a large number of serious issues pending to be settled by ministerial decisions. It is characteristic, among other things, that the example of musical and artistic schools, which you are not only promoting their weakening but also announce at the end of April that this year's examination will be carried out with the new system, without having identified the matter and with little or no time to prepare the children. The same uncompromising sketchy approach and the ideological approach is revealed in your attempt to bring the standards and experimental schools fully to an end, two educational institutions that you proclaimly do not believe, but they must continue to offer many and important things to education and society. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can I have the two minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u254	Of course you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u255	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This approach is also revealed by your attitude towards the Departments of Engineering, where with a move and an article you generally level polytechnic studies, without any provision for assessing the educational effect, for the professional rights of graduates and the needs of the real economy. Ladies and gentlemen, I will finish as I started. It is unprecedented that a plan drawn up solely in the light of populism, the service of micro-interesters, on the grounds that all of them are not at all interested in the quality of education, should have to hide behind an unacceptable urgency procedure at Easter week for such a serious national issue as that of education. This paradox is the best, safest and worst proof that the current government is on complete track, both its own and its dangerous approach to public affairs. The New Democracy has a specific programme for education, and indeed it is the first to be announced by Kyriakos Mitsotakis with the Education Sector. It will soon be called after the upcoming elections, which Greek citizens will decide and trust us with the country's governance, to implement this programme, which, in fact, also upgrades public school and public university, upgrades education. Because that's what our country wants, that's what our youth wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u256	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Antoniadis, has the floor. Mrs. Jackie's gonna talk. Then the Minister for Health, Mr Paulakis, has asked for the floor for three minutes to support an amendment. Mrs Vaki and two - three more colleagues will follow. He has also asked for the floor - and he is entitled to be taken - the State Secretary, Mrs. Jufi. Here, Mr. Antoniadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by pointing out and denounce in turn the urgency of the bill - more than two hundred articles, more than a thousand pages - but also the days being discussed, Great Monday and Great Tuesday. I don't know if this is symbolic, for similar passions that you create in education and in the country with this bill. No one understands what the purpose of this reform is. There are no feasibility and sustainability studies, there is not even a strategic plan. He wants the Minister to close the TEIs. Yes, he did. He wants to raise university departments. Yes, he did. Is that the problem of education in Greece? So far we have made doctors, lawyers and engineers from Switzerland, Sweden and Belgium together. After the reform, it will certainly increase. Isn't it reasonable that they can't find a job in Greece and look for a job abroad? Really, Minister, have you heard anything about the fourth industrial revolution? Have you heard anything about the new digital age that has already come? Have you done anything to prepare the universities and the TEIs and in general all education structures to meet the new challenges of the future? Instead of streamlining the existing ones, connecting them to the labour market so that the graduates can find work, we add unemployment cards. Do we want a degree with an impact on finding a job or a proficiency for frames on the walls? Does this bill contribute to this? No, instead, it increases the university departments, making it more difficult for the situation. There are already third, fourth, fifth generation cell phones, electric cars, optical fibres and there are no artisans. Such schools should create. Don't remove the TEIs. Do not remove the technological field of education. Prepare universities and TEI to help the country be a protagonist of developments that are coming and not just a spectator. To point out and denounce extortion, threats and transactions of the type "I give you, you give me" with the teachers who belong to your political area. Net vote. These don't fit into education, they don't care for anyone, Minister. I come to the icons of the TEI with the University of Western Macedonia. How many of the leaders of Western Macedonia have come to the debate on this bill in the Parliament's Committee on Morphic Affairs? Because of your drunkenness, no one. Not even the dean of western Macedonia. Do you think, Minister, that the distance Florina-Athens is as long as the Peristeri from the Constitution? Five hours is the distance, Minister, and because of you it's been five days. In Florina, the School of Fine Arts is the identity of the city. Florina is the city of artists, painters, sculptors and others. I mention names known. Sculptures: Nikolaos Dogoulis, Philips Kalamaras, Dimitris Bessas, Christos Tsotsos, Dimitris Kalamaras, Yiannis Antoniadis, Nikos Dogoulis, Leonidas Kalamaras, Philips Kalamaras, Aliki Hatzis. Dozens are the sculptors. Painters: Thomas Painteros, Ilias Byzantis, Sotiris Liukras, Antonis Balakas, Litsa Papademitriou, Vagelis Tamoutselis, Nikos Tamoutselis, Anna Tsulfidou, Gregory Hadjilambrou and other dozens. First request for all, the creation of the second department at the School of Fine Arts. Explain what the reasons for not creating are. Financial, political, ideological, personal? The study for additional infrastructure at the School of Fine Arts 10 million is completed. The funds are there, the teachers are there. Local bodies require it to be necessary for the identity of the region. Mr Gavroglou swept away: 'No, no, no.' You're coming to Florinna, Minister, for a visit. Admir, ladies and gentlemen, democratic and political customs. The consultation is under way in the name of the name. Reverends to meet with local bodies, mayors, MPs, Regional Governors, EBE, working centre. Decent to meet with the teachers of the University of Florinna. Decent to meet with other institutions in Florina, parents' and guardians' associations, teachers, teachers, about the problems of education, primary and secondary. In Florina, the stoves and central heating are still burning. Schools have a problem with heating oil, which is not enough. There are many other problems. The Minister of Education came to the region once in four years. He's here, he didn't listen, and he's gone. Something similar, of course, had also been done by the Prime Minister, who came to Florinna only to attend a concert. Minister, that's no way to solve problems. That's how they're created. I finally appeal, even at the last minute, to approve the Second Department of Digital Arts at the School of Fine Arts in Florina. Also, you withdraw the possibility after five years teachers can move wherever they want to go within the university. Everyone will go to Kosani and at the end to Thessaloniki, and in the end, the citadel cities will have problems. Obviously the last citizen of western Macedonia also realizes that you are building palaces in the sand or rather that you are building universities without a plan, without a future, just to satisfy party pursuits and objectives and to secure the vote of the Western-Macedonian people. I would also like - and I will close with this - to refer to the statements made by the Minister for the 'Macedonian'. When you were questioned, Minister, about the ability to teach the false language from nurseries, universities, etc., you left an open window. Wonderfully? Unequal? Probably deliberately. Are you aware of the problems that will be created in the future? I guess you don't care. The window that you left today will become the avenue of alphabeticalism tomorrow, but you may not be interested in it either, so stop playing with national issues. In conclusion, unfortunately this bill creates more problems than it solves. No contact with reality, with markets, with challenges of the future, without purpose, without compass and orientation, so we are voting against it. Good Resurrection to all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u258	Before I hand over to my colleague Mr Georgiadis, I am telling the House that under Rule 72(1) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, Members of the New Democracy are calling for a roll-call vote on the principle of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Science and TEI Synergies, access to higher education, experimental schools, General Archives of the State and other provisions". The first signatory is here, Mrs. Keramea. The names tomorrow before the vote. Not required to be read today. We're moving on with Mrs. Jackie. You have the floor. As I said, for three minutes then Mr Paulakis, Mrs Vakis, three - four colleagues, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Jufi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece, in post-multiple Greece, there was a series of educational reforms. After all, it is well known that each minister is introducing an educational reform. Let me say, however, that few are the educational reforms that deserve to be noted. I only mention, for example, the very important educational reform of the introduction of primary language somewhere in the mid-1970s and the famous framework law for the university in 1982, which changed the structure and manner of universities. [[At this point the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios GEORGIADIS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] There have, of course, been reforms that have failed steadfastly in recent years, such as the "ATHENA" Plan, which only succeeded in eliminating them from the university map for decades, such as the Marketing and Operations Administration Department operating in Edessa from 2003 until 2014. The bill we are discussing today concerns the new architecture for the university institutions of the country and provides for a number of provisions on synergy between universities and TEI. The creation of strong and large university institutions that can stand up to a single European and global charter is therefore a challenge today. A modern university institution should link the high theoretical knowledge of university institutions to the technological experience of the TEIs, ensure through its upgrading in particular the sustainability of small institutions and departments in the internationally competitive academic environment, which, of course, promotes wider consensus and synergies, eliminate intra-university inequalities, as all teachers now have the ability to take on doctoral and, of course, not only connect this practice to what is said in the international academic area, but also brings Greece to the forefront of Europe, harmonise our country with developments in the United Europe as in many European countries higher technological education has been transformed into university and, of course, save public resources, as not only will existing structures and administrative services be better used by newly created broad structures but will also be made economies of scale. All this is achieved by the establishment of the International University of Greece. It is a large institution, such as Alexandria TEI of Thessaloniki, with organised university, two hundred forty-three members and a hundred administrative staff, twenty-three thousand undergraduate and a thousand five hundred postgraduate students, divided into four schools and seventeen departments. It joins with two other TEIs, the TEI of central Macedonia and the TEI of eastern Macedonia as well as the International University and they now form the new International University of Greece. No one will lose from this union, on the contrary, everyone will win. First of all, students and university staff and research itself as an academic process. Specific provisions in the bill ensure the positions and development of academic staff and existing departments. The development and graduation of already admitted students in the existing departments of university schools is also guaranteed. There is the election of university departments, economies of scale, a single administrative structure, the preservation of the specificities of each individual administrative unit, such as postgraduate departments in the English language of the International University, and the creation of a more single institution with a critical size so that it can now enter with claims on the map of European university institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point let me point out that, with the establishment of the International University, the Regional Unity Pellas is reintroduced on the map of university education. With an amendment tabled to the House, which is being discussed today, a university department for four-year study in Edessa is being set up in the framework of the operation of the International University of Greece. This is a lifting of earlier injustice against Pella which the "ATHENA" project at night had been erased from the country's university map. Today, the Regional Unit Pellas re-establishes it with the establishment of a university department, which will exploit both the historical data of the region, where there are museums and archaeological excavations, such as the ancient Pella, Vergin, Edessa and Dion, as well as the existing need to create skilled staff for the museums of our country. This section also covers an important educational gap, since it also makes use of the important cultural infrastructure that exists in northern Greece, as I have already said. The invocation and enhancement of the ancient good, its visibility and its founding in the public speech are not made with cries and insults, as the opposition is used to in our day, but is done with specific measures such as this. In other words, the establishment of a university institution in the heart of ancient Macedonia and the subject of the Museology, that is, the promotion and promotion of our history. These are real patriotic acts, ladies and gentlemen. At the same time, however, with the unification and academicization of TEIs within the framework of the International University, there are also two-yearly courses which will meet the training needs of young people who do not wish to follow higher education. In the Regional Unit Pellas there are all the infrastructures in order to be able to operate directly two-yearly courses in various specialities, which will give professional type 5 rights to graduates of PPAs in various regions of Pella as follows: In Scydra and more specifically in the "DIMIDRA" ERG, a two-year study programme on standardization and packaging of agricultural products and a two-year study programme on the subject of logistics in agricultural products. The area of the JRC in Scydra, which is already operating as a rural information centre, has been ready for operation since the next academic year. Logistics and standardization and packaging of agricultural products can well function in Skydra and with the support of the University Logistics Department of Katerina, meet the real needs of the rural world to prepare on these new issues, in which the primary sector of our country lags considerably. In Giannitson Paralimium, in the area of the Institute for Animal Health of ELGO "Dimitra" a two-year curriculum for cheese and milking. At the Institute of Animal Health of ELGO "DIMITRA" in the Paralimum of Giannitson there is already a well-formed teaching area, which must, of course, be adapted and properly developed. There are also up-to-date stable facilities with animal breeding and modern other infrastructures. The Institute for Animal Health still has the ELOGAK building, which is equipped with modern milk analysis machines, and a small cheese factory and a small milk pasteurisation unit should be set up for the completeness of the education. In the Edessa program of tourist professions that will support the real economy of all central and western Macedonia, providing trained and qualified staff in the tourist professions and the Arida Department of two-year study of Vimatic Rehabilitation Therapies, as there are the baths of Loutraki, which attract more than half a million visitors annually, according to the official figures of the Municipality of Almopia, and is on an upward path that will provide professional rehabilitation to many young people in the region. These sections satisfy the basic needs of the rural population in the north-east of the country for training in these areas and offer a professional way out to young people in rural and tourist areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u260	Mrs. Jackie, we're eight minutes away. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u261	I shall conclude, Mr President. At the same time, an ecosystem is being created, a group of university departments and schools in the Regional Unity of Pella, which will also form the basis for their further development with the creation at a later stage of other university institutions and even in English, as it will be part of the International University of Greece, that is, an extroverted European university institution. Apart from the benefits of local society and economy, the rejuvenation of the area, the creation of opportunities for young people to avoid internal and external student migration in the Pella Region, the International University and through its funding by the NSRF, there will also be upgrades to the building infrastructure of the existing building, which until the very beginning hosted the Marketing and Operations Department, as well as the recruitment of skilled personnel, administrative staff, members of the ICMs and young people involved in training.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u262	Mrs. Jackrey, please, please, get it done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u263	Unfortunately, due to a lack of time, I cannot refer to the very important innovation introduced by this bill, namely, the introduction essentially of the free access of young people to higher education, without disturbing the impossibility of the pan-Hellenic examinations, which is a very important reform. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this bill, with everything I have said, is the guarantee that we will achieve the great goal as parents, but above all as citizens of this country, to give children, young people in this country the opportunity to carry out their dreams. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said that the five minutes will be seven, but please do not take advantage of the tolerance of the Bureau. The Minister, Mr Paulakis, has asked for the floor for an amendment, and immediately thereafter Mrs Papanatsiou will be speaking. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u265	This is the amendment with a general number of 2131 and a specialist of 240 from the Ministry of Health tabled in the Ministry of Education bill, which we thank for. Under paragraph 1, following the transfer of the powers of the financial control services to the financial services of the hospitals and the legal persons we are supervising, it is necessary to extend also to the officials of the financial services the provision in force in respect of the status of the public accounting, because a number of problems have been created in the fear of some officials, etc., in the sense of possible repressive control tomorrow - the day after tomorrow by the Court of Auditors. It is for this reason that this paragraph stipulates that the officials of the financial services of the legal services of the Ministry of Health, in the exercise of their powers, are not considered to be public accountants and are responsible only for fraudulent and serious negligence, according to the Staff Code. With the provision of paragraph 2, we shall resolve the matter that would soon be created. As you know, we have legislated here, and we have also made additional legislation for the announcement of the thousands of sixteen people to the posts currently serving as auxiliary staff, giving a solution and a permanent job. We have further mobilized the staff who are already serving, which, indeed, has helped all the previous years in the crisis to operate the hospitals. We are essentially extending the term of secondary staff until the adoption of the FEK of the permanent nominees, in order not to disturb the operation of hospitals, because they are about a thousand hundred people who are currently serving. With the regulation of paragraph 3, we solve a problem in which there was a legal gap from the 2011 Transplant Act. The way it was formulated - and I refer to autologous transplants, not to heterologous transplants from one patient to another, but to the same patient for the same patient's need - did not allow the autologous transplants to take place in private institutions. However, too much has been authorized on the basis of some of the standards that had been put in place. So in order now to correct the ministerial decisions, we are changing the wording, because it was necessary to cover it in order to be able to do so, and we say that the autonomous - I repeat only the autonomous transplants - can be carried out in private clinics, which have obtained the legal permission to make the necessary ministerial decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr. Polakis. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor to develop her own amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. This is the amendment with a general number of 2133 and a specific number of 242. The first article enables us to extend the programme for the clearance of outstanding commitments and outstanding applications for retirement. We had given an extension by 31 March. There was a remnant of the budget until 31 December 2018, we gave an extension by 31 March, but because there is another remnant it is good to use and we give an extension by 30 May 2019. The second article concerns the establishment of an independent personal data protection officer. With the proposed regulation we comply with European obligations and recommends to the Ministry of Finance an independent personal data protection officer office, which is directly subject to the Minister of Finance. I would like to stress here that his role is consultative and that the office will have five members. We are talking about the already existing staff in the Ministry of Finance and there is no intake. We also amend Article 28 of D142/2017 and propose the establishment of an office for traceability of tobacco products. The need for the establishment of the proposed office emerged from the competence conferred by the General Secretariat of Information Systems. It is the national provider of a unique labelling code of the tobacco packaging units. In accordance with the provisions existing by the European Commission, the only identification codes to the operators involved in the production and disposal of tobacco should be provided by 20 May. Here again, we expect an office, which will be composed of seven members, and there will still be no recruitment, but it is from the existing staff. The last article reintroduces to the provisions of paragraph 8 of Article 26 of L.4172 the provision that was abolished for incomes acquired from 1-2015 onwards. The purpose of the provision we are now bringing is to recognise in a specific way the precarious requirements for the OPCW agencies. There are uncertain revenue factors and there is no supporting evidence because of the regulations in force in toys in general. For this calculation, the revenues from the VLTs, from the ‘shoes’, which are all electronic, are not calculated. Other revenues made by the agencies of the OPCW, such as the sale of mobile phone cards, the payment of accounts, etc., are not taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Minister. I will now give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Vaki, and will be followed by Mr Kelles, Mr Georgantas, Mr Mardas and Minister Jufi. Mrs Vaki, you have the floor for twelve minutes, on the tolerance agreed by the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber we have referred in detail and austere to the draft OHIM and IHIM synergies which form the single higher education area. So I do not need to mention once again, I am enough to make three observations. Firstly, it is a single area which intends to stimulate and develop strong regional universities, which should cure new cognitive objects. Secondly, it is the single area that should establish research centres and institutes in universities, something that has been done and, thirdly, it must be dictated by strict academic criteria and, of course, must not give in to the local sirens, which will reproduce the unfamiliar memory "every village and department, every city and school". Where it has operated, it has worked properly so far and we have reported too many times. So I do not need to say it again, but I will be content with my speech in secondary education and the new way of entering universities. So let me start today by calling for consensus and genuine parliamentary dialogue on such a sensitive subject, that of physiognomy and the role of lyric education at the top of the spear, the introduction of pupils into higher education. This is the major issue of the Greek family, in which hopes and struggles are being invested, stressful and an inappropriate part of the family budget. So it is not a matter for small-scale exploitation and opposition krone. However, it is not a matter that has been dealt with unfoundedly, unsatisfactoryly and without dialogue with the educational community. The debate on what high school we want lasted for two years and starts together. High school is unable to serve its mission, to provide solid general education and has been degenerated into an introduction to higher education. His jurisprudence presents students, not to the suffering of critical thinking, but to the suffering of memorization and the abundance of competition, turning them into race horses. The school turned into a break from the schoolroom and the approach to knowledge worked. From this point of view it has been excavated in a means of achieving the ultimate objective, which is the introduction to university. The crocodile tears about the alleged deficit of general education, which is supposed to be recommended in this bill, are deliberately and deliberately ignoring the undeniable event of the self-determination and self-determination of the third grade, not now, but for a few decades. High school III is treated with complete disgrace and indifference by students, devastated the morality of teachers who are making superhuman efforts to mobilize their interest. The courses of the general education of the latter class were convicted in a decorative role, since the centre of gravity was exclusively the material being examined and the subject of success of the school course. The consequence of the above is the degradation of the high school dismissal. All of us in this Chamber will agree that we want a national sanitation centre with a bearing and a special burden. Therefore, this draft law attempts to cure these pathogens in the following ways: First of all, in the second grade, the nature of a general education class is given only by abolishing the courses of courses which were in place as a preparatory stage for the examinations of admission to the university, as well as by attracting this class to training and reassuring preparation, many times, of examinations and thereby canceling its task to substantially promote general education. Secondly, there is provision for the possibility of admission to higher education without examinations, on the sole basis of the graduation certificate. Initially, the number of sections of free access will be limited. It is, however, a first step that takes the long-term demand for free access and when the high school diploma is upgraded and becomes credible in the consciousness of society, let us carefully plan the next steps to extend the provision. Thirdly, the third grade will now include the lessons required to introduce into higher education, increasing the teaching hours of each course at six hours, but also with different teaching design, in order to carry out deepening, cultivating critical capacity and the composition achieved through writing work that works as an antidote, among other things, in frontal teaching and mechanical demolition of knowledge, without processing. And of course, compulsory lesson, regardless of the school chosen by the candidate, will also be the New Greek language course, which heals history, culture, identity issues and is therefore very important. In this context, I therefore welcome the provision that the National Training Centre for Education is set up, restoring after many years the lost value of the institution of education for teachers. The establishment of this training institution is also assisted by returning after a decade to another normality, the regularity of permanent appointments in the middle education. Let us note once again - and colleagues have said - that four and a half thousand appointments have already been launched in the multipathy and neglected area of special treatment. Ladies and gentlemen, I have always been a champion of consensus and of public dialogue with rules and positions on education. Since 2015 I have been listening to a constant “engineering excellence” that has found screaming, devotion, malicious comparisons, make news and sometimes acidifications. Since 2015 you have won the "basket in education", "the school of minor effort by SYRIZA" and recently we have heard "for Nero Minister of Education, who has been re-inspired, and the project delivers the education system to the flames". We are listening to the Chief of Officerial Response, after the unspeakable memory of the students as customers, to designate the Greek public university as a centre for the manufacture of molotovs, deeply insulting all the academic community, the teachers who selflessly and selflessly kept the public institutions standing, providing high-quality research and teaching, with heroic efforts, at times when the government of the excellents cut expenditures on education and higher education institutions were unable to cover even their operational costs, but also insulting the students of the Greek universities for whom they are not praised when they are located abroad, mourning the Brain Drain, exclusive leaders and creators of which you are the ones who have immersed a country in the crisis and have been chained to the corpses of the monuments. In the cries, therefore, for the lifting of excellence and of minor schools, for equality of opportunity, for bills and for education policy implemented in recent years is the only answer. Let me have some samples of writing. We have legislated and acted on the two-year pre-school education. We legislated and acted at the full day's school. We placed particular emphasis on special education, but also on technical education as the child of a lower God, even claiming the universal originality of exporting doctors and engineers and importing craftsmen. Because the upgrading of technical education, for example, are the two-year programmes in universities with free access to the graduates of vocational schools. Thereafter, psychologists are introduced to schools, helpless in a generation that is lost online, the uncontrolled and raw information of which annuls the crisis and the thought, on the Internet that is isolated and becomes stumbling in the spirit of collectiveness and leads to isolation and depression. After a decade of audacity, we are moving towards permanent school assignments, trying, if you like, to close the shameful thing about the history of capital education that is challenging the need for politeness and listening to the name'supporters', that is, regrettably, to the end, to gather molecules, without work rights - some of which have been guaranteed recently - which were insecure and insecure. However, nominations were made this year and five hundred are on the subject of higher education, because the problem of the Greek universities for those who have experienced and experienced their difficult and awkward reality is not their 'anonymity', in order to use your friendly term, the problem consists of the dramatic undermining of higher education institutions, which is legitimate in your request to restore the ratio of one to five, when we have succeeded in getting back to another normality, that of one to one, for a withdrawal of an intake. The problem is, moreover, the lack of institutions promoting research, which the bill cures through the establishment of university research centres and institutes, as it dictates, literally, the single area of education. Of course, I would also like to make a special reference to the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, which gave a research roof to dozens of doctors, postdoctors, researchers. But go back to school. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not canceled excellence, but we have tried to make excellent schools for everyone rather than enclosed castles of excellence for the possessors and the possessors. Our vision is that the school of equality and quality, which will promote education, but will also form free and responsible citizens with a democratic conscience. Let me close my speech with a political comment. Yesterday was the black anniversary of the Aprilian junta to always remind us that the struggle for democracy, for the defence of democracy, is a high debt, because at this juncture the enemies of democracy are multiplying and the planet is plunged into the darkness of racism, intolerance and the emergence of neo-fascist structures. Our bruise, then, coincided with the Catholic Easter this year. It was not theocratic but hemorrhages in distant Sri Lanka, the Easter of the Catholics, and it led to hundreds of dead people, resurrecting to hi-tech, excluding barbaric, 21st century religious wars. So let the above constant recollections of our debt be made to work for a school - a democracy workshop. A democracy school is to be a hospitality school, a foreign friend, not a parisan or a disconsumer. A democracy school does not frustrate the entry to the foreigner, dark-colored and other religions, and it does not fuel every Amir who was taken to keep the flag. It is a school that separates all, without discrimination and exclusion, from the everyday life of the first article of the Declaration of Human Rights and Citizens, "All men are born equals and free." It is a school that teaches that there are no property tribes, real estate nations and real estate religions, so that the poison of intolerance, which is the yeast of the far right, to young people who some time ago were supporting and writing on walls that democracy betrayed Macedonia. Democracy never betrays and its enemy is not populism, as you are accustomed to by colleagues of the Officerial Opposition, always indulging an empty term of content for any disease. The enemy of democracy is one. It's the fascism that's racing and resurrecting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Mr Kelles from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group has the floor for five minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the beginning of the Great Week today, the Great Monday and the Government are bringing to the House - and, indeed, the urgency procedure - a bill of a hundred and twenty-six pages and a half-six articles ending education. The evil for you, however, for Greece, is that Resurrection is not going to see. Besides, you don't believe her, Minister. What we have to point out is that we will always remember the three features of your legislative work and be distinguished in the multi-project. The first is the bad legacy. You bring handscoat, fragmentary and incoherent provisions that cause confusion and bring about the degradation of education. Secondly, you are implementing tactics that undermine parliamentary procedures, which form the basis of our democracy. It is unacceptable what has happened with this multi-brand plan. Obviously, you are afraid of the reactions, which is why all the bills concerning education, Minister - or almost all - are brought with closed schools and closed universities or Easter or summer. Thirdly, your doctrine "One of them we are ending or ending" remains strong. This was evident, moreover, throughout the entire legislative process. Fortunately for Greece and the Greeks you are ending! You proceed to university merging and TEI without evaluation, without academic criteria, setting up schools and departments with overlap and without professional rights. You're dissolving technological education in contrast to what's happening throughout the Western world. On the other hand, this is in line with your ideology, that universities provide education and that it is not necessary to interconnect with the labour market. You are seeking, in other words, unemployed and educated. The President of the Rector's Synod, the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and the TEI disagree vertically, while the Scientific Service of the House underlined the need for documentation, the adoption of rules and evaluation of structures in relation to the integration and conversion of TEIs. And if you legislate, but a week ago when the student elections were held, the New Democracy's party reached about 60% in universities and the TEI, while SYRIZA's student party did not simply fall. He just got 1%. It also follows on from the European elections and self-government elections, where, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you will not believe what you see. Your plan is unspeakable. The General Accounting Office of the State provides for about 20m euros, but only for teachers' wage costs, while the remaining costs for the operation of the new schemes cannot be predicted. The same happened, of course, with the University of Thessaly and with the NRP and the Agricultural University of Athens. Further, we expect answers to specific questions. You're manipulating new engineering schools. What about the number of people entering the new polytechnic schools? Is he going to stay stable? Will it more than double? And in this case, Minister, how many unemployed engineers can this country withstand a profession that lives hard anyway? You are founding a law school in Patras as a result of a transaction. Our point, Mr Minister and colleagues of the government, is not whether we are going to establish a legal school in Patras, in Larissa or in Jannah. Our point is if the country needs another law school. And, of course, you all know her very clearly: No. You know the unemployment that is plagued by the industry. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. I will also stress here that a TEFA is being established at the Tower of Elias. Why do you give it to the University of Patras, while there is a similar object at the University of Peloponnese and "run" from decades of masters in Ancient Olympia? I'm continuing with secondary education. First of all, you degrade standards and experimental schools, abolishing their autonomy and defining as the sole criterion for the selection of students the draw. They stop schools so they are islands of excellence and we have an equation here, downwards. For four and a half years you have brought the dissolution to both high school and high school. And I'll say that. The Education Association says so. Now you are stepping up the problem with the arrangements for GELs and PSAs, which do not bring anything modern and functional. You brought a sap of regulation from the past, adding the preference statements from the second high school and binding the children, while you also create free access departments. Total confusion! While, for three years, you have supported the abolition of the pan-Hellenics. I would also like to dwell on something that abolishes the equivalency of the score. It will be taken into account - as you say - at a rate of 10%, the degree of dismissal in the pan-Hellenic. Yes, sir. However, the issues in intra-school examinations will not arise from a bank of issues. It will be different per region. Does that not abolish the rate of the degree of dismissal? How fair is it and how constitutional? I have listened to you, Minister, before your speech, to ask for our opinion on the appointment of teachers. You know very well that we voted for this. Can I ask you now? With Article 67(6)d, you are arranged in places of professional education centers of the HEI, with a five-year term of office and a salary, for those who have been regional managers and training directors. In other words, you are surviving those appointed with doubtful scientific qualifications or elected by anti-constitutional selectives, as decided by the Council of State. How much more photo for your own kids? And why don't you show the same sensitivity to school advisors, who, although they have rich curriculum vitae, went to the basket of unusables? I would also like to refer to an issue that Mrs Jufi may well know about. Mrs. Jufi, reports from the German newspaper "BILD" mentioned the day before yesterday that the Greek school of Munich is being demolished by decision of the Munich City Council in Munich, with the signing and assent of the Greek consulate. A month ago, in committee here, the Secretary-General told us that an agreement has been reached and that will come to the House to be ratified. Is it possible to break down the school without the Greek Parliament knowing and without having approved it? Mrs Jufi, I would like you to tell me something about this. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is on its way, having completely dismantled education. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, our President, has said that everything is a matter of education, which is why education is one of the main axes of our country's reconstruction programme. Our plan includes all the necessary measures to help modernise all three levels of education. The aim is to ensure that our children are provided with the necessary cognitive facilities for their future in an educational environment of security and freedom. We trust public education. We trust the Greek teacher, who will be our escort the next day. With open horizons and inclusiveness, we will bring hope and perspective to our place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. Mr Georgantas has the floor, and then Mr Mardas immediately. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the issue of the bill, because we have heard Mr Polakis, the Deputy Minister of Health, to put forward an amendment, I have to say that I consider at least the content of this amendment unacceptable, on the basis of which the officials of the Ministry of Health, who are essentially responsible for financial control, will be responsible only for fraudulent and serious negligence. But of course they will be responsible for deceitful and serious negligence. This cannot be ruled out, nor can anyone, of course, legislate and rule out what the Staff Code provides for fraud and gross negligence. But do you know what's going on in the Ministry of Health and his services? Because we have too many amendments on the part of the Ministry of Health to legalise payment orders not legally and because they have refused to sign them, because it is a continuation of what is being done, today an amendment is coming to cover these officials allegedly. I draw the attention of all those who sign warrants for money laundering that are contrary to every public accounting principle. This is just as a small observation. Minister, there has always been a precedent for the Ministry of Education to seek convergence and a consensus in the House. All political forces have always attempted to remove the subjects of education and education from political confrontation, and many times there have been great shocks within this House in times when in all other fields there has been intense controversy. I don't know how you did it and you bring a bill to which they're all opposed. And it is not just the political formations, it is the academic community, it is the society itself, it is the institutions that are opposed, and I really do not know what the conclusion comes from all the efforts you have made in this regard in the field of higher education in particular. I, trying to catch up with a section of the bill, have been a little concerned with the question of the abolition of TEIs, their merger or their absorption - say what you want - or the change in their name, as some people say. There is indeed someone here - and in practice it is seen - who finds that there were no elements, criteria objectively, which are assessed and which are valid as general rules and on the basis of them to form a new field, as you have the right to see it. Instead of the existence and application of such uniform rules, evaluation criteria, sustainability studies, feasibility studies, evaluation of existing structures that operate with the results they have, we see some interventions that have no sense. And I will give you a simple example, so that this can be understood to colleagues: You visited a year ago the Department of the Design of Ready Clothing of TEI Kilkis. It is only a section, an annex to the Central Macedonia TEI, which operates very successfully. And I say great success by assessing the great absorption of graduates, which is 68% absorption on the market of graduates of this TEI, but which has always had a request which I think is in line with the academic criteria that you set on the basis of your explanatory statement. What's that? There's no way there's a department on its own. We understand very well that a section of itself, without the existence of a school, cannot fulfil those academic criteria which are necessary. So here you are doing this: While we have a modern building, which was delivered a year ago, it was financed by the European Union, with six thousand square meters of useful space, we have only one section, with all six months of only four hundred students, when the ruthless costs of this building - which you say in the sense that you are limiting them overall - are stable. And what did we ask for? The self-evident: To have a second section. And not only did not create another additional section, but a section is removed with absolutely relevant objects, such as the Drama Architecture of the External Landscape. You're pulling it out, and the draminos don't want it. Once I see you determined to do so - I do not know why - it would not be consistent with your explanatory statement, in the spirit of your law, just as you say, in particular, to the sustainability of small institutions, to the savings of public resources, to the better use of existing infrastructures, would it not be possible for all of us to see that this second section which has a relevant subject - and this is our project - create a planning school and come to Kilkis? I say it as an example. Everyone can have such an example at home. I, through this description that I am making, want to demonstrate to you that there were essentially no objectively uniform criteria for assessing all these structures across Greece. So this second section that could be in Kilkis to make use of a huge building, so that we have those academic criteria that should characterize such efforts, you have not done so. In this way you are absolved in the intention that you may reasonably think you are defending it with this bill, and of course I think that similar examples, as I have heard, exist everywhere in Greece. This gives all of us one step to say that it is the subject of haggling, political agreements or I don't know what else, the result of this new map that we are seeing. This section - and I must say it - is equivalent to a section of Serres, is a school - and it is the only one in Greece - with two permanent teachers. They're two classes, one school, two permanent teachers. Is that based on the restructuring, redeployment of the project, the goal you have for higher education in the country? If that is really you tell me, 'We did, we left a school with two teachers'. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, it is a pity indeed that in a draft law on education we have not been able to find any shocks. And always responsibility, Minister, is the one who takes the legislative initiative and the converging and synergies, as you say here, which you have really pursued. While the title of your bill is "Cooperations between the institutions", you did not achieve what is necessary for any bill, there was a convergence within Parliament and a consultation and acceptance by the academic community. So it is certain that this will fail. Fortunately, however, for all, it will not be time for its implementation, because the next government will change it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u274	Mr Mardas has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and then the State Secretary, Mr Jufi. You have five minutes, Mr. Colleague, with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to the World Bank, 105 million people will lose their jobs in 2022 - and we will live - while 300 million newcomers will not find work. In 2030, when robots are rolling into the labour market, it is estimated that eight hundred million jobs will be lost, which will not be created by the production needs of robots. So you all understand the importance of training in this Cylon coming. Today we have a new bill, which concerns higher and secondary education. This seeks to improve the current situation, as it does, by closing a cycle of change. But is it a question of improving a functioning knowledge-producing system or of building a new system in depth? Scientific research reviews positions which are now considered obsolete and which are far from the solutions required for education. Many views, therefore, appear to be dominant today, are moving on a pedestrian, who often fails to take the so-called'modern tendencies' into consideration. Traditional approach to excellence, for example, with the existence of model schools where good students gather, is now challenged by science. This has demonstrated, among other things, a recent extensive investigation in 2015 by the British Ministry of Education and more specifically by the study of the training company ‘SchoolDash’. Our educational system has been an eternal process of continuous repairs for fifty years. We continue to educate our children about how to become good consumers of knowledge, instead of teaching them to produce knowledge. But our children, to survive in the modern world, need education that encourages innovation, originality in the place of uniformity and stereotype thinking. They need education at all levels, which will make them learn, invent and create, through innovative thinking, high aesthetics, arts in combination thinking about information management, thus avoiding immobilization. All this requires an educational system, which is not suffocated under strictly anachronistic surveillance systems such as those built for decades. As regards higher education, the need for our students to survive adapts knowledge to the needs of their professional careers. On the other hand, in addition to the above-mentioned technical knowledge, the need for emphasis on humanitarian studies arises in the context of the 4th Industrial Revolution, because technological development and globalisation are only founded on human morality, so that we do not lead to inhuman societies. Education, I would remind you, is the expression of planning the future of the economy. She is not the servant of her failures and distortions. Apart from what has been said and a revolution in education, a revolution that does not require much money, it is imperative to accept and adopt modern trends of education that are full-fledged in the characters of pupils, strengthen the range of the knowledge and capabilities of teachers and free the educational system and especially the teachers - we are not enemies of teachers - from strict monitoring and formalism. These norms, in turn, have created an indescribable bureaucracy for about half a century. Only flexible supervisory systems are needed, with the aim of continuously promoting the educational system and the dynamics it develops. In all these objectives, let Greek culture become our central option. This can be done by establishing a school on Greek history, culture and philosophy, with only foreign students and with natural teaching in Greek. We will be flooded by young children, lovers of our history, who will reasonably be the future ambassadors of Greece. Any educational systems implemented in the country, despite their weaknesses and functioning without systems of excellence, have created a set of Greeks that exist both in the country and in every corner of the world, teach in universities, distinguish themselves in research, build powerful Greek communities, gain the appreciation and respect of the countries in which they operate. Let us take all the useful materials that have left all the systems and build a new one, in consultation now and without obsessed for the fundamental building of a new educational system. In this context, seeking a new balance between high-level university and technical higher education, as the second time is disturbed, weakening by the inappropriate arrangements that began since 2001. That's worth doing, not so much for us, but for our children and grandchildren. In conclusion, I would remind you of what Nelson Mandela said, that "education is the most powerful weapon one can use to change the planet." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u276	Thank you to Mr Marda and to the economy in time. The reason for this is the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Jufi, for five minutes, with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u277	Thank you. I would like two - three minutes more, because there are pieces of the bill that are of competence and for which no reference has been made. I would like to say something more generally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u278	Yes, sir. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this bill is a continuation of the broad democratic reform that we have started in the field of education. It is also true, despite the reactions, that there has also been strong and vibrant consultation, which was also crystallised at the meetings of the Committee on Forums last week and, in particular, at the meeting with the bodies. I would like to begin by referring to certain provisions that are in place and which have not been discussed in particular, such as the General Archives of the State. The General Archives of the State belong to those bodies and organisations that operate quietly and effectively and are out of publicity. Since 1914 they have been doing a major job to save public and private documents, manage information, but also in the areas of historical research, cultural action, administrative information and civil service. Their operating framework has been revised twice, in 1939 and last time in 1991. Therefore, today, after twenty-eight years, it is obvious that there is a need to change and update their framework. I must tell you that what is being proposed and in the bill was the result of a long and productive consultation, both with the leadership of the General Archives of the State and with the association of workers who said in the public consultation that most of their proposals were accepted. What's changing? The administrative structure of the service shall be updated in accordance with the new structures of the ‘KALIKARAT’, upgraded at the level of a department of local archives with great historical importance at national level, upgrade the role of the central agency, define the responsibilities and tasks of the Director-General, encourage extroversion, with a special address to manage the issues of visibility and communication. We are talking about a staff upgrade, through the recruitment of trained scientists. Of course, for the proper co-operation of the general archives with the wider public, the ecclesiastical bodies and the other holders of archives and how the archives and archives will be protected. In our time, you will allow me to say that we are overwhelmed by the dispersion of false news, not only on issues of everyday life, but also on key historical and social issues, we must as a state armor and look for best practices to highlight those objective historical elements that cast away any doubt and ambiguity, especially today, fifty-two years from the declaration of the military dictatorship of 21 April 1967. Rumors develop and spread when allowed, while they become a propaganda tool when there is no scientific and social control. GIS can play a key role in reversing this situation, highlighting and analysing historical data. Perhaps that is why the Golden Dawn is also voting against these articles. Access to archivism has the prerequisite to eliminate passions for decades, creating a new culture of understanding and mutual respect. The second issue, to which I should like to refer, is the arrangements for vocational schools. Let me say here that for the government, vocational education is an important priority and that is recorded and reflected by all the changes and reforms launched since 2016. I would remind you that the first measure was the reintroduction of the two thousand five hundred teachers who had been made available to the service of Mr Mitsotakis and the reopening of all the well-established specialities and sectors of the PESA. So, dear rapporteur of the New Democracy, do you or do you deceive the PES? In addition, a detailed strategic planning strategy for the quality upgrading and strengthening of the professional high school has been completed and more and more pupils therefore choose the professional high school, with an 8% increase in the workforce on the day and 13% in the summer school. In addition, a thousand five hundred parts across the country were approved with four hundred thirty of them serving the needs of one to five students, reducing the number of pupils in the third grade, creating the three-year escalation school, which has been a worker's request since 1980. And, of course, I cannot hear here from New Democracy that after the dismissal, children who are graduates of the ESDP will not have free access. First of all, I think that the New Democracy does not believe in free access, since in its programme it supports the persistence of the existing system, and furthermore it says that the number of people admitted to higher education institutions must be decided by the institutions themselves, which are currently introducing far smaller numbers and even raising the basis according to their needs. So one of the prisoners doesn't believe in free access. Secondly, the prisoner, the children who will receive the PSA will all be able, without examination, to enter these new two-year programmes, which will lead to professional level 5 rights. On the other hand, the Communist Party of Greece says for a job without rights. The apprenticeship, which also concerns adult pupils, has been embraced and has been increased by 33%, is accompanied by an increase in the wages of children by the abolition of the subsistence and the increase of the threshold by 27%, with certification tests made free of charge, with level 5 professional rights. We have recently published in FEKs and the professional rights of these children. Therefore, there is a serious and conscious effort within the bill. We are also publishing provisions which, having changed the contents of the ESDP, show that there is also a 55% reduction in the burden of examination to 66%. Last said by the New Democracy: they are lost, they say, schools and objects. No schools are lost or objects. An amendment sets out the rate of access for PES graduates to universities and the changes that have been made and the remodeling of the specific rate will allow PES graduates to claim posts with the pan-Hellenic examinations of 10% on all positions for the directions and sections that are relevant and 5% of all posts for the other schools, while 20% will remain for PSAPATE and the Higher Schools of Tourism. The third point I would like to make is the question of Greek-language education abroad. There has been an up-to-date legislative framework, there has been an early secondment of teachers in Greek-language education, in fact, have also been an increased number of pupils for reasons that are well known and obvious. There was a law to maintain the organic position of teachers who are being seconded and now, recognising the increased educational needs and leaving the Memorandum, with an increase in available resources, we are in a position to provide financial support for teachers abroad. With Article 221 we are prolonging the payment of the external allowance for one year, i.e. the remuneration will be paid for four years, which will have effect from the next school year. Of course, we must also talk about the quality of education and the content of the studies. It is an open process, in which we have begun with the development of relationships of trust with the Greek communities and external bodies at the level of the educational process. I would like to finish, because I come from tertiary education, the rapporteur and the other speakers have said a lot, and the Minister himself - with only two remarks: First comment I would like to make is that, despite the voices of counterpopulation, which have been accompanied by the destructive position for public universities and the supposed need for the establishment of private universities, European practice since 2009 and certainly after the Gothenburg Summit in 2016 is the establishment of multi-powered universities. We are moving on in this direction. We know that it takes patience and time to deliver our design. Of course, I also share the view that hard work is needed by the people who serve the university and the majority of the university authorities who have embraced the project, who are entitled to express reservations about the ways and periods of implementation, but they do not question the majority that these synergies are the only solution, both academic and scientific. On the other hand, the Civic Opposition has a make-up agenda. You will allow me to say, and our parliamentary representative has said, that it is extremely dangerous and undermining to say that the higher institutions are centres of lawlessness, terrorists and drug dealers. The manoeuvre was once again done by the Chief of Officerial Response in a speech to Cyprus. For us, the real upgrade of the public university is a priority. We have ensured a lot of things in higher education institutions, academic rules for all levels of study, free access to postgraduate programmes for those facing financial difficulties, trying to clear up and transparent how the funds are managed. There must be much more and there must be other things. The Minister has already spoken about the arrangements required for the other scientific staff serving within higher education institutions. Therefore, the aim - and I conclude, Mr President, and I thank you for the tolerance - is that we must support public universities and research, to invest - from the information provided - in material and human resources, but above all to rethink in educational and scientific work that is not produced for the benefit of any government, but for the benefit of the officials and society themselves and the new generation, as well as society in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Minister. Mr Spartinos has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for five minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus more, and because of localisation, on issues relating to the merger of the University of Patras with the TEI of Western Greece. But before that, I wanted to make a more general reference. What are the data with which the government started creating what it called the 'new architecture of higher education'? What were the data we had? In 2001 we have the supremacy - as has been said by this neo-colonialism, not very good Greeks - of the TEIs. What did this higher education mean in reality? In front of the three letters TEI added a quarter, "a" and "TEIs became "EI". This "a" in many cases turned out to be rather not the first letter of the word "maximum", but a "a", which led enough of these TEIs not to be targeted and intended. Of course, we must say and note that within TEIs there are, created and today there are extremely high-quality sections of very high-level studies, with very good and worthwhile teaching staff, research work and students who give them a perspective. This, however, was due mainly to these factors in the community of higher technology institutions. It was not the result of a structured strategy, a project by some governments who wanted TEIs to make them genuinely higher education institutions. Another given fact that - I don't know, I'm not a university, but as far as I can tell, we don't meet it in many other countries, perhaps in most of the world - the large spread of schools, universities and TEIs across Greece, schools and departments and buildings that have been built without a specific project, for many decades, with the aim of serving customer criteria of local pressure. However, this is a reality today, which one cannot delete, and one could not go with a reasonable "ATHENA" project and say: "For budgetary reasons we basically delete, we abolish half of the TEIs in Greece because, brother, we were wrong. All these decades, we shouldn't have made them. We are now abolishing them.' This would be an approach that would have criteria for educational, academic, that would like this whole framework of higher education institutions and TEI to integrate them into a single operation, in a single evaluation process. I think that this could not be the case, since the financial benefit we would have had to weigh it and at a cost paid by the Greek State, paid by the Greek taxpayer to create everything I said, the buildings, the facilities, the laboratories, the infrastructure. What would we do all this when we shut it down? Would we make them hotels, or would we see them desolate, as we saw too many Olympic properties? I therefore think that one should take into account all academic criteria, of course, but also all the reality that exists in our country and try through this framework, which is most likely not the most good thing that has been created for many decades, to go further. I think that this effort was made by the Ministry and by the draft law this concludes what we say 'the new architecture of higher education'. I wanted to say one more thing. What is the reason, in my opinion, that within Patras, where these two higher education institutions, the University and the TEI, were in place, has a tension and a controversy certainly been greater than in other university institutions and TEIs in other parts of the country? The first reason is what the Minister said, the opposition did not believe that this plan would end up somewhere. Wait for the government to eat somewhere. This does not result in this design being completed and this is to a great disappointment of the Anti-Population and, above all, of the Officer of the Anti-Population. Of course, it also comes at a time when we have already entered an election period, one cannot delete this factor. We are well aware of the New Democracy and KINAL, but also of the JRC, that for some time now and in October, they will not be deprived of any dialogue, in no debate on any matter, even on such very serious and critical issues as higher education. Another reason is the upcoming demotic elections. As far as I am able to know, at the University of Patras there was a competition both against the Ministry and against the outgoing - when it comes to its time - a rectal principle of who will be overhearing the other in criticism, because that is how some have thought, they have considered that they are putting mortgages much more severely to claim the next rectal principle. And there was a game, I'd say Brain Game, among them across the Ministry, which had that cause too, and I say it pretty well, I'm able to know. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I do not want to make it clear that it may also be possible on the part of the Republican authority to have some failures, some procedures which were not the best possible to organise dialogue within the university community. However, I do not think that this can be an alibi for any reason, so that too many university bodies can go through a rocking tactic both to the rector and to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u282	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u283	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think that, at the end of the day, the Ministry's cooperation with the Republican authority has produced good results, although - I repeat - some procedures could have been done in a better way. I want to finish with one more observation, the last one. It is said that "you make parts, synergies, merging without giving the necessary staff and the necessary means from everyone where all these restructurings take place". I'll remind you of one thing. When about two and a half years ago - if I remember correctly - the Minister of Education was Nikos Philis and Deputy Minister, Sia Anagnostopoulos, then five hundred LAG posts had been approved for all universities. Today others are adopted, the Minister said them before, I will not come back. From those five hundred posts I learned a while ago that they have come to an end and have been appointed, not under the responsibility of the Ministry, less than a hundred. What's the matter with all this delay?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Spartin, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u285	Should some people in the university community look to themselves and do their own self-criticism too? They know very well what the procedures are. Is this the result less than a hundred teachers to the five hundred who could be there, which honors the self-interest of the universities? I think that, apart from voting laws or voting against them, we should also learn some useful lessons in general, both for education and for the social responsibility of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Spartan. Mr Adonis Georgiadis from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, when you became Minister of Education, a colleague from SYRIZA said to me: "Now you will understand the difference with Mr. Friends and what a real communist will say to the Ministry of Education." I thought he was humorous.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u288	Well, he didn't!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u289	Unfortunately, he didn't. Life brings this. I am still trying to understand in these institutions what you have done with this ideology, because this bill you have brought today, we can without doubt say that it is the worst educational bill that has been filed in this House in recent decades. And the truth is that this is a difficult achievement, because, in general, educational bills were not the best. But what you are doing today has no point in saying that what you are doing is good. I get it in turn. At the time when the French Academy states that we must declare the Ancient Greek and Latin languages, that is, the classical languages, as monuments of European heritage, and ask for an increase in the teaching hours of classical studies in all the schools of Europe - I am talking about a decision of the French Academy a month ago - you come, the Minister of Education of Greece and you do the exact same thing back from what France says, from what Europe says. You take Latin, because you actually have excellent hatred towards anything that composes the identity of the European, because classical studies, whether you like classical languages, whether you like them or not, are the core, are the basis of Europe, of European culture. And instead of Greece being the pioneer, instead of Greece being the protagonist, instead of Greece being the area that is being projected and cultivated more, it goes backwards. You'll go, soon we'll reverse them, but we're staying in what's going on today. Second point of the bill is the pan-Hellenic exams. We are a country that, in general, the citizen's faith in anything that is zero. Everyone believes that everything is being bought out and that if you have acquaintances, you can overcome any kind of state barrier or any kind of rule. This, unfortunately, is the common perception in Greece. In Greece, with this common view, in these years, one thing has always been, 100%, considered that it is inappropriate and fair, the pan-Hellenic tests. It's hard, actually. It's awkward, actually. But no one ever questioned their validity. You come, the Minister of Education, Gabroglou, and introduce the first system of pan-Hellenic examinations, which first of all the separation in green and other schools, you actually understand what it means, that is, where there is no great demand goes to the extent, where there is great demand, it has given all the Greeks. But what did you pan-Hellenic? Panhellenics that will no longer be made on equal terms, but on different terms from each other. So the second hub of this bill is in fact a blow to the only institution that, until now, no one could accuse it of being devilish. I come to the third: Minister, I started and said that you are a communist and you said 'yes, you saw one time' and we did this cute thing. But you, the left, are supposed to be the accelerating and most supportive of experimental schools, standards. What for? Because what does he actually say? What has the Diamantopoulou Act tried to do on this matter and what has been demonstrated by the practice of recent years, that it has really worked? Why would hundreds of parents go and apply to give children the opportunity to enter such a school? Because, Minister, these schools have actually been built and not only must not be destroyed, as you are destroying them, but they must be extended, because it is the only way to have a fair, healthy social mobility. People, in other words, who come from families who do not have the money to pay an expensive good private school, have the opportunity to provide them with the state, since they are trying and wanting to go ahead and even though they do not have the money, to be able to compete on equal terms with those whose parents were more lucky and have more money to provide them everything. Instead, you say that 'I want to give these children more chances, who do not have the chance to have the best education, to give them the opportunity to leave faster', you come and level them all down. You are disturbed by the idea that there may even be an area in the public system, in which the poorest Greek has access, which can give him the opportunity to exploit his will to move faster, to read more, to fight more. It causes you obvious anaphylaxis of any kind of evaluation. You do not want, in fact, to have any control over the quality of study provided. You want everything going down. You do not want it to be an example of how the Greek Prime Minister speaks, but you want - if possible - all the Greeks speaking Greek at this level and all the Greek people going down and saying that "we are perforated in every control" and "I didn't have the tom block to become a Prime Minister". That's actually what you want to do in the bill. It's a shameful bill! I'm closing up with the part of the TEI equation. Of course previous governments have a responsibility too. What's the real problem here in Greece? That we have seriously underestimated - not only in your day, but in general - technological education. We are a country that, unfortunately, we think the bad student will go to the technical high school, and the bad student enters the TEI and, in any case, these are the most disadvantaged of the universities. In a country where we are in fact all agreed that technical education should go further and that is something that Greece absolutely needs to go forward, we have failed and despite many discussions, we have not been able to give this impetus to technological education. Instead of going to discuss how we will be able to give the impetus that technological education needs to gain authority, do you come, like a 'Bavroyalurus', as a politician of 1950 and 1960 and what do you say? You go and pet the ambition of each of you to say that I'm done university and give him university paper, without having checked if he meets the requirements, if he meets the labour market, if the paper he gets will have any impact equivalent to the university, just to tell you "bravo, you have a university" and just in view of the European elections, you may get any votes in the areas where you make these indiscriminate, without criteria and without a merge target. Excuse me, Minister, but indeed every good observer, if he searches a point of this bill that has a positive element he cannot find and is curious because it is a huge bill, on average, twice as much as all the previous ones of your predecessors and will have worse luck than your predecessors, because it will be very soon - we believe in the vote of the Greek people - where it really deserves it, at zero. Because that's just where this bill is worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u290	Mr Kikilias has the floor from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and then the Deputy Minister, Mr Fotakis, speaks for his speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u291	Can I make a suggestion, Mr. President? The voice is a little down, because here we are all next to the loudspeakers and really...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u292	It's a standard voice. It is simply a little stronger than other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u293	A little lower, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u294	Here, Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, everyone has his style, his voice. Others the voice is more bass, more delicate, more powerful. Let's talk more slowly, if you want, but he can't hide this decency in your bill, which looks like you're going home too, as you have said. You came here this morning, you looked at me there, and you said no wonder we could get assistants to read the thousands of pages of your bill, which you brought a day ago. You have underestimated the relevant department for education, the Parliamentary Representative today, Mrs Keramos, for the way in which she has studied the bill, and you consider yourself, a parliamentary educated, with academic parchment abroad and many other colleagues who teach you abroad most, have studied in foreign universities, take their children to private schools - the Prime Minister, too - that behind the morning turbulence the reality or truth can be hidden, as Mr Philis said - which I appreciate and respect - of a heartfelt controversy between New Democracy and SYRIZA. No, it's not that. But this isn't about it. As soon as the Opposition deplores you. The Rector authorities are disapproving of you. The tops of the universities disapprove you. The gentlemen you're supposed to favour the technological institutions, the TEIs, the former KEIs are blaming you. Why do you know what everyone knows, Minister? What you cannot understand. Let's go from the last one. Technology institutions should be in the year 2019 in Greece levers of growth. Knowledge is not theoretical, it goes along with practice. Our children are sending them to the higher technological establishments, universities of TEIs, KEEEs or as they were saying, in order to obtain a degree, this degree to have a connection to the labour market and to be able to look at tomorrow with optimism, finding a job in all of this. What do you have to tell us now? Because the beans don't come out and because wherever we go, they probably don't throw us on rose petals in all our political manifestations and in education, come and close the eye to some people who can, in case we recruit them. In the previous bill for the Armed Forces of the Ministry of National Defence, you and your colleagues did the same. Now you come and do the same. Look out, for who? For the standard schools? For what? Experimental schools? We have been telling you for two - three years that you have actually affected the average Greek family and the popular layers, the possibility and ambition of a single child, if deserved and can, have the potential, the weapons and the tools that a child of a rich family has. You're against them, aren't you? Really? In private education, is that you have a problem with college graduates and their professional weakness? Anything to do with how to increase the GDP of the country, how will job children hate it and fight it? I mean, you destroyed this generation, you exaggerated it, you smashed it, you dissolved the average Greek family. Now are you going to tear the next ones apart? Are you really telling us? Your problem is if Mr. Georgiadis, the previous colleague, has a more baseful voice or speak louder, why are the loudspeakers here? It's not here, Minister, the thousands of families in the country to answer you what they believe in your bill. Because, generation after generation, the dream of the middle Greek family was to see her child enter a university and a TEI and fight families for it. What do you think? You say we close the eye to some people, say there will be schools that don't need tests - so his precursor never re-examinations - and other tests for the time being, so we're consistent with what we've been talking about. It does not matter that for four years we have been unable to do anything of what we were talking about and in education, that now they are all against us, against you, Minister, with your bill and with the Prime Minister - confiscation, which ended the Polytechnic so, on the backs of his classmates and on the backs of his fellow students, with supposedly creative revolutions, who got rid of the indignation of young people in 2008 and built a political career on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u296	A little more calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u297	Come on, Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u298	Political career on this was built by Alexis Tsipras and you are now coming as Minister of his Government to continue your "delightful" work through education. Dissolve the technological institutions. Thousands of people have worked endless hours - scientific staff, teachers, administrative staff - so that there can be growth through the technological institutions in that country. You're abolishing them, so you're merged with S.H.I.E.L.D. You have made no effort to make this bill have an economic study, to have tactics, to have strategy, to have a target in the future. It's none of your business. You don't care about that. Just a few pins in the next election. We are very sorry, Minister. With all our souls we will vote against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Fotakis, Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, has the floor. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the key questions in today's debate is how the landscape should be shaped in higher education, so that it can meet today's challenges, challenges, scientific, social challenges. The answer to this question must be clear, visionary and immediate. The draft is another step in this direction. It modifies the landscape of higher education, in a way that brings education and research closer to the country's modern data and requirements, so that learning and knowledge are the foundations for a new development model that will create opportunities and prospects and lead to sustainable development, the model of the economy and the knowledge society. Based on the above considerations, it is now necessary to understand that the required level of technological education has today changed considerably. At the same time, the criteria of scientific and academic quality, which are met in most parts of the country's TEIs, have been upgraded. It's not what it was forty years ago. That is why it is not enough to call them ATE to that extent. We must, in practice, create the conditions to liberate the good potential of the past, overcoming prejudices and falsifications of the past. We must give opportunities, incentives and inspiration to tomorrow's generations of scientists and researchers. The bill responds to the needs of modern-day sectors with a strong multidisciplinary character, areas which some are still unsatisfactory, which allows for great added value. For example, I would like to mention the Crete TEI, which is happening to know well. It is a TEI, which has very serious powers in modern technologies, such as photonics, nanotechnology, information technology, agriculture. These are technologies that run horizontal traditional pillars of development of the Greek economy, such as food, tourism, energy, the environment and others, adding value to the points that cross them. The conversion of TEI Crete to a University will further contribute to the development of Crete and the country in general. I think it's a very good example. That's where this bill aims, to exploit the human resources and infrastructure that exist in the regions of the country, to strengthen our presence in modern technological areas, where Greece, not only can take the lead, but even cause a shock, which will draw us forward. And this together with the balanced strengthening of the human and social sciences, which highlight the country's identity. This approach therefore creates opportunities, prospects, lifting hooks, blockades and caging. I would now like to focus very little on two articles, 72 and 73. Article 72 makes the reduction of red tape in research a universal demand. The bet is how to ensure the flexibility that the dynamics of research require while safeguarding the public interest. In Article 72, the research bodies and the EPPC remain in the public accountancy, but special arrangements are made in four key points relating to the undertaking - the obligation to move researchers, procurement contracts for research projects and the electronic management of the required documents. Article 73 recommends a hundred and fifty-seven posts of scientific staff in the research centres in the country, for which the necessary resources have already been provided, after ten years of complete drought in recruitment. The same article harmonizes the status of the IBEA, the Medical Centre of the Academy of Athens, with the other research centres of the General Secretariat of Research and Technology. The General Secretariat shall supervise the IIBEA together with the Athens Academy. A new important element is the full coverage of the payroll costs for the researchers and regular staff of the IBEA. The position of a qualified scientific director shall also be established, and the procedures for evaluating the administrative bodies and for the election of researchers, as well as for the other research centres supervised by the Secretariat-General for Research and Technology, shall apply. The Academy of Athens retains its emblematic presence in the IIBEA, involving four academics on the seven-member board of directors, one of whom is elected and held by president. It should be noted that the Association of Researchers and Workers of the Academy - and I wanted to present this to the Secretariat - unanimously expressed the acceptance of this plan. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Constantine Fotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to end by highlighting another dimension that arises from this and the previous relevant bills by the Ministry of Education. Recently, the term "4th Industrial Revolution" is increasingly heard in many respects. We heard it today and here. Mr Antoniadis from the New Democracy mentioned it earlier. The so-called '4th Industrial Revolution' relates to the impact of technologies of a subversive nature on instruments and methods of production, the accumulation and movement of capital. Inevitably, it determines the position of countries in the global division of labour. The question is, what can be our country's role in this new landscape? The government has been seriously concerned with this issue for a long time, along with the issue of the social consequences, which may arise, and which include not only uncontrolled and widespread unemployment, but also the exclusion of people from the production process as such. Man becomes useless, can become useless, so many moral, social and legal issues arise and need to be addressed. Our attitude on this issue must clearly not be technological and contrary to what the various so-called obedients say, the country has important scientific and technological powers which exist in the technologies based on the 4th Industrial Revolution. In particular, Greece is above the average of the countries of the European Union and the OECD with regard to RnD, which has a percentage, is the sixth country in the world at STEM graduates. We are talking about specialties, which have to do with the 4th Industrial Revolution, and this again according to the OECD figures. I would like to submit that to the Secretariat too, because it is very useful. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Constantine Fotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In order to make use of this valuable reserve in the formation of Greece's role in the 4th Industrial Revolution, there are two conditions. First of all, it is the resurgence of Brain Drain, who intensified particularly in the years of the crisis. The measures we have taken so far and are directed both at the public and private sectors have already begun to produce the first positive results. For example, of the Thirty-three hundred beneficiaries of the first two ELIDEC actions, more than half of them have declared that they remain or are returning to the country because of these actions by the ELIDEC. The second condition is the reorientation of the Landscape of Higher Technology Education, the formation of new skills and the enrichment of older skills. TEIs are primarily producing STEM specialisations - and this is what we need to highlight - are at the core of this effort. So I close by pointing out that contributing to the 4th Industrial Revolution is an additional dimension, which serves the draft law in practice, creating prospects and opportunities for the new generation and future of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Deputy Minister Fotakis. Mr Papaliou has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. You have the floor for five minutes, Mr Colleague, with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the ongoing and rapid developments in the field of technology, as well as the new globalised environment, are stepping up the radical remodelling of higher education so as to make it possible to redefine its mission, to respond to this new mission, to new data and to modern requirements. It is known that in the current institutional framework for higher education there are weaknesses, shortcomings, pathogens and clamps. The current bill takes a decisive step towards the effective abolition of university and technological education. Technological education in Greece is already being transformed into practice, but not institutional, since it has evolved from the level of postgraduate vocational education, through these schools, at the level of higher technical education, from the initial definition of its mission as a complement to the higher education institutions which have technical and technological orientation in an autonomous city, but also from the provision of vocational training for the development of applied knowledge and a complex content, in a way that is based on good theoretical knowledge. This has been the case with the increase in the number of departments, knowledge provided and the overlap of cognitive objects with those of the Departments of IOI, which lead to the unclear distinction of the object and content of the studies, of the degrees awarded, but not always of the professional rights associated with them. In this context the TEIs were highered, but not in practice. The distinction between pure theoretical science and its applications is neither obvious nor beneficial. The need for good knowledge of the scientific background of applied science and the overlap of cognitive objects strengthens this non-discrimination between HEI and TEI. The character of her science and applications is unbreakable. In addition, the introduction of information technology and new technologies in all fields, the structure of the Greek economy and modern requirements strengthen the specific perception of non-distinct boundaries between the university - theoretical and technological directions. The present draft law provides for partnership, synergies between the IOIs and the TEIs, incorporates the practice of technological experience in the theoretical knowledge of the Higher Education Institutions, ensures the sustainability and upgrading of the institutions, removes academic inequality, harmonises academic things in Greece with those of Europe and achieves economic efficiency through the co-finance of resources. The reorder of the architecture of higher education includes, in addition to other regions, the Peloponnese. The University of Peloponnese has schools and departments covering the administrative area of the Peloponnese region, a region with many problems, with decreasing population and developmental potential and the primary sector and the processing of its products, tourism combined with the primary sector - agricultural tourism - and energy. The upgrading of the University of Peloponnese aims to acquire a high level of university education, especially in objects, consistent with the development planning and perspective of the region. In this context, the University Research Centre and institutes, which contribute to the promotion of research, are set up in areas linked to the development needs of individual regions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that TEIs and TEIs were founded and structured on criteria, not always academically, even without academic criteria. Local requirements and needs, not always developmental, were outweighed. The effort to be made is therefore that academic criteria should become stronger, without, of course, ignoring local balances and needs. On this basis, there is concern about the synergy of the University of Peloponnese with three sections of the TEI of Western Greece. At this stage, the reflection is blunt, since the Department of Technology and Telecommunications is part of the University of Peloponnese's School of Administration and Economy and would be cancelled if there were or could have been the possibility of this department in synergy with others moving into a multi-technical department, increasing, in the first phase, the time of study from four to five years. It is clear that it is not possible to challenge the acquisition of the schools and departments of the University of Peloponnese. But the strengthening of the headquarters of the University of Peloponnese in Tripoli would say that it is self-evident. The fact that it is granted directly, through the legislative provision of this bill, the area of the Psychiatric Hospital by the Ministry of Health at the University of Peloponnese demonstrates the interest and the way in which the Government wants to strengthen the University of Peloponnese based in Tripoli. In this context, the University, Research Centre of the University of Peloponnese must have its seat in Tripoli. The establishment of a School of Health Sciences based in Tripoli is important, because the presence of the Panarcadian Hospital, a large hospital, requires it, as well as the transfer of the Nursing School with the new academic year from Sparta to Tripoli, strengthening the practical exercise and consequent on the quality of the student education and their professional rehabilitation. Finally, Minister, everything that has been said, of course, that livestock farming is a strong and able, even more importantly, to claim a pillar of development - you said so - the establishment of a Veterinary School. I'd say you and the Peloponnese University's senate will look positively.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u303	Mr. Colleague, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u304	I shall conclude, Mr President. The production of honey in Arcadia, in particular in the area of Mainalos, Parnon and other mountainous areas, is extremely high and, above all, qualitatively higher than in other regions of the Peloponnese. His programmes, if any, with an amendment of four SYRIZA colleagues, the Institute of Beekeeping, will promote the development of the industry and the implementation of actions, based on national planning, with a view to promoting honey in internal consumption and abroad. It is therefore proposed that the Ministry of Education and the Universities should be considered for selection - as a seat of the Institute, Bytina, located in the Minaloan region. The Bytina's on offer for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Papaliou, you've reached nine minutes. You're embarrassing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u306	In the area is produced the famous PDO vanilla Mainalou (Bittini) honey, as are the facilities of the Agricultural School, including the state estate of Bytina, which is intended for experimental crops. Let us consider and propose this proposal to the Senate of the University of Peloponnese. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u307	I'll say it once again: we said the five minutes are seven. Do not take advantage of it. So far, two colleagues have done so. Mr. Excellency has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the educational map of Greece is changing. Responsibilities and distortions of the past are corrected. The aim of our reform effort to provide quality public free education at all levels of the educational system. There can be no change for sure without disagreements. It is different, however, to talk about disagreements and quite a different thing, the fierce attack carried out by the Opposition, on the basis of this bill. The equilibrium of public universities with molotov and man-made centres, which give asylum to criminal gangs, is a major depreciation of the public university by the Chief of Officerial Response, a university, where, despite any problems, a significant teaching and research work is carried out, with international recognition. Well, the private colleges, but let Mr. Mitsotakis come by and see what's going on. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill deals with one of the main problems in secondary education: the non-existence of the third grade. What is the situation today? No high school III. It's treated as a passive. Approximately EUR 2.5 billion is spent every year on preparing candidates. Good news about the schoolrooms, bad news about the Greek family. The student runs out of the school hall to go to the schoolroom, considering the university hall, finally clearing from the school process, to reach a large percentage, not at the school he wants, but where he happens. A disappointingly small percentage, of the order of 1/3, seems to enter the school of preference. Public school is being deceived. Educational process is required. So, what's changed in High School III with this bill? They're changing the structure and the program. New simple structure, reduction of objects, increase of teaching hours and curriculum materials. The information today is as far as a click. What is important is to develop the possibility of analysis and processing. We give the opportunity for discussion, assimilation and deepening by increasing teaching time. Changes how to obtain the dismissal for an upgraded, reliable dismissal. It's changing the way you enter the tertiary. The free access departments are a first step towards the gradual introduction of free access to HEIs. And how does opposition react to this change? I've been arrested for exoneration and vagueness without suggestions. The exaggeration and the sterile opposition to her majesty. This bill, in their view, is a monstrous instrument and is a monstrous instrument. So they've grown up so far and we're going to ruin their masterpiece? I guess that sounds like a tragic irony. Considering the gaps that existed in education, students starting their school year, without schoolbooks, the downgraded TEIs had reached such a degree of success in public education, blossoming the schools and especially the ones. In such a situation they also wanted to bring tertiary education, and the private universities, who have long wanted to do so. In addition, with this bill, we continue to reorder our architecture to higher education with the aim of strong educational institutions that meet international challenges, with new sections, with new cognitive objects. We are not sticking to the label, as the previous governments have done, but we are actually moving towards a qualitative higher education. The new architecture includes the two-year curriculum for PES graduates, an institution which will make a decisive contribution to the effective upgrading of vocational education. We also restore the organicity of experimental schools by treating one of the most important distortions caused by previous legislation. We are reforming the legislative framework for the General Archives of the State, aiming to strengthen them both at national and international level. We simplify the procedures and put an end to a time-consuming process for those graduates of colleges who are entitled to professional qualifications in accordance with Community law. Repeal of the EESC and replace it by the European Department of Independent Legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, with all our legislative initiative, we are setting a new framework for the quality and substantial upgrading of the education system, through open dialogue procedures and through long consultation with everyone. The attitude of parties and trade unions is absolutely hypocritical. They retrospectively come to criticise them when they were absent from the procedure, with no arguments and no proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, the neoliberal policies and the constant cut in expenditure on education had left their print on the educational system to a heavy burden. Even now, in our reformist effort, you see destruction. The dialogue on education requires the education of those involved in the dialogue. It presupposes arguments and proposals. Molotov, Armageddon and the associated deceptives, let's put them aside. Education is not available for small-scale exploitation. In any case, we move forward, with the look on the students, the teachers, the teachers, the parents. We continue our efforts towards an open, worthwhile, democratic educational system for a free-thinking citizen, with real and effective education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr. Excellency. Mr. Michelis has the floor for five minutes with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, because I have the feeling that the arguments on the specific issues of the bill concerning higher education, secondary and other provisions have been completed at any time, I shall concentrate on general issues, since there has been an interesting debate on the sociology of education. Paseron and Burdier have been mentioned and I will mention Antoine Prott. The question of mobility has also been raised by colleagues from the New Democracy. So what is the problem today? Is there a problem? There has been a problem and there will be a problem, as long as society has this character, and as long as education in society is a function of education. Let me mention a problem. Is it a problem to move from a level of education to a level of education and we are now in a position to discuss the alleged transition from secondary to tertiary? It's an answer. Conservative right party insisted since 1929 - please! - when the primary school was four years old, we have an exam from primary school, tests from high school, so that students can be declining and they can reach the end of high school less than they are to get into college? He insisted on the answer. Did the progressive party of the Central Left insist, in whatever political form it had, to stop these tests, to increase the number of years of study and to make education compulsory, six years in the Municipal, three more in high school, with the reform of the Papandreou, Papanoutsou and Luke Akrita, and then, Rallie and Papanoutsou in 1975? He insisted. This is a question of sociological education for perception, which we have about what kind of accessibility and student to education we have. Second matter. How do we view the student’s assessment? With continuous examinations and strict, the right-wing conservative party responds. With a daily evaluation by educational and intervention corrections and aid, the progressive left-wing party is responding. Look at this: in the crucial question of access and strict examinations, the pan-Hellenic and large number that will arise, if we now leave free access to the tertiary, the right-wing, because we will fill the universities, the same as an antidote for the children of weak social groups insists on strict examinations, while for children of economic and administrative elite, who politically expresses, insists on private universities, with unique tests "Dad's money". Question: In these private universities, private colleges, import and promotion tests are exams? Examinations go into private universities? It's clear with the father's payroll he pays. And when we talk about social mobility, in an excellent book by Antoin Prott which has not been translated into Greek, which poses the question "Training is democratized?", his answer is that it is the one that allows children of lower social groups, through education, to enter higher social classes. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is not the case with the Grandes Ecoles which have in France, a separate group of schools, or with experimental and standards, which, as an instructor for thirty-five years, I know very well that, apart from the proper organisation and good assistance, they have nothing to do with anything, because they have not produced research and studies of specialized programmes, which should be done. The answer to social mobility is to become excellent and standards for all schools. So today's legislation sees problems, the political forces see the problem, just each political force responds with a different position, and that is why today's tension in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, too. You didn't even need a five-minute, Mr. Michalis, to be honored. Mr Sevastakis, from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, has the floor for five minutes and immediately after Mr. Fotillas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u312	Thank you very much. Usually, discussions about the government's legislative attempts are general. In other words, a particular, coordinate, conspiracy reason is not being formulated in opposition. A practicable and comprehensible ideological disagreement. It is general and destructive in the very moral intention of legislating. I mean, there's no law-making, because the law is bad. This is a more general classification which does not work anywhere, and I do not know whether it is a political investment to develop all your empathy in education and meditation. Because education, apart from its own content, is also a meditation on its organization and a very large part of the legislative steps is this effort to organise itself, to organise the way in which it is received from the social body. For example, there is grief about the eclipse of technological education. Cognitive objects don't disappear, they exist. The problem of reduced charming in the Greek society is not due to the fact that there is a social fermentation, as Mr Georgiadis said, that society has a selfishness, which is not enough for it to receive this selfishness, but that there is no technological quality in production itself. They do not become tempting, that is, the cognitive objects, precisely because there is no productive quality to make them tempting. Secondly, there is the question of technological education on it. It's not only about teaching the specific object and the specific technological act, but also about meditation on the corpus, about the philosophy of technological education. We have said many times that it is disastrous, in the Greek case - not in general - to connect the market to the educational demand, because quite simply, the Greek market is far behind the level of education. Education is more advanced. On the contrary, education must set the terms and the market must be adapted. We have the opportunity, we have the opportunity as a European peculiarity, to suggest something unexpected. We did not pass the industrial revolution, we did not pass the development phases of capitalism, we are a hybrid. Well, this hybrid needs to be heard, and education with about 85% and over the children who somehow want to enter the highest school. This hybrid, this international peculiar case, must be made clear, we must listen to it and we must rationalise it. In fact, technological education absorbs all demands. The problem is whether these educational demands correspond to social fantasy. It's not always like that. However, in today's treaty with interdisciplinaryity, with the crossroads of cognitive objects, with the instant production of new cognitive objects, which technology or communication of scientific evolution requires, I think we have the possibility of social fantasy to be paid, filled, felt that a cognitive object is a tool to learn the learning mechanism itself. There have been too many pillows said, I will stay in something that I care very much and that is moved by me. Mr. Javarra's positions always have a special quality, or at least I can take advantage of them, to say my own, what is my poorness for the dead language, such as the ancient Greek. It is our generation, which has been overestimated by the grammatical teaching of ancient Greek. However, its language and functionality is also its musicality, it is its poetry. You acquire linguistic intuition through the teaching of the ancients. You don't learn a manual language, you don't get a dictionary concept of language, but a poetic carve of language. You feel the tongue. The knowledge of the ancients connects you with your current language. So I think you need to change the tools you're approaching. Not through dogmatism, not through regulatory oppression, but through understanding the text, Rolan Bart would say. So I think we can find such tissues that connect us, not to the language, but to our history and social body. Who we are, with our identity. There is a very strong question, especially in times of insecurity. I think that language is the tool, so that we can discuss it. One final comment on this drop in high school courses. There is a problem, there is a tolerance, a patience for the general education courses and a over-target of the students of the Third High School in the examination courses for the tertiary. The bill is trying to bridge that. The sure thing is that deepening in itself is a term of office and in different cognitive fields. If, for example, you do not expand in cognitive terms, but through examples you get bored in the subject, in the language, or in mathematics, you are necessarily nursed in very many different cognitive fields, even though lessons are not given as such. There are no such vertical divisions of objects anymore. We can think, feel and therefore be critical. So I think they are spared for the difficult and expensive area in which we are trying to nurse. Not in the field of education, as in the field of education and pleasure from education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, too. Mr. Fotillas has the floor for five minutes, with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not surprised by the procedures in which it came, but also by the substance of the draft law itself. On a point of order, I objected to two objections, and I would like to mention them. One was made by Mr Paphie and the JRC, who, in fact, told you, Minister, why you brought the Great Week bill, which is closed down by schools and universities. And, of course, you did not give him any answer, but you tried to joke in a way, with a low level of humor, telling them "you left-wing and your relationship with faith" and something like that. The second objection was made by our rapporteur, Mrs Kerameos, who simply asked you why - once again - you are choosing to benefit from parliamentary procedures, bringing such a large bill, which concerns the entire Greek society, in such a short time. Nor there did you choose to answer, rather than there you chose, with an even cheaper kind of humor, to answer Mrs. Keramea by telling her, "If you can't understand it, I can send you an assistant". You know, you don't answer that you don't answer, at least you don't have to offend your colleague. If one of us said so, we would have been accused of having sex for that comment. We don't do it because it's not sexism. Still, it's an insult. The truth, Minister, is that I did not expect you to answer these questions, because the only honest answer you could make to the question 'Why do you do it?' would be 'Why does that suit us'? So, as I said, I am not surprised because we have taught you. However, despite the fact that we have learned you, it does not cease to give rise to the impression that the vigour, which touches the limits of this government's hysterical system, does not improve the problems in the educational system, but undo everything that was good in it, at almost all levels of education, beginning with higher education, with the unregulated and unresolved reorientation of the academic map of the country, which is being attempted. Why am I asking myself: What logic of development does the regulation with which you multi-technicize all the Schools of Engineering lead, with a single, essentially ministerial decision? What needs of the labour market are covered? What feasibility and sustainability reports are there? Finally, what professional rights of graduates are they serving? But now what am I asking? Appropriateness, sustainability, designs. These are fine letters for you. You have even reached the point when it comes to the mergers of TEIs at the University of Patras, to try indirectly to blackmail the University, telling him on the substance that if the merger does not go ahead with the TEI of Western Greece, you do not expect any law or agriculture. That's how you work with blackmails and ruffles. Of course, let us not forget that your first move - which fortunately failed - was to try to dismantle the Greek Open University. But you were faced with the universal reaction of the educational institutions of the city of Patras, and you had to change your mind. You did the same at the TEI in Saints, which, from conservation and development, in practice, led to weakening and closure. And if the local community hadn't reacted there, you wouldn't take back your plan. The truth, Minister, is that you are selling, for electoral reasons, university degrees to current students of the TEI. The same blackmails apply to the University of Peloponnese, which you threatened that or they will accept to absorb both TEIs - Western Greece and the Peloponnese - or they will not be included in the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, let's go to high school, so I don't forget. Here lies and fraud exceeds every limit. For two years you have been talking about alleged abolition of tests to mold their disciples and families. And where did you end up today? In need of pan-Hellenic examinations for basic university schools, with four lessons, i.e. as the packages used to be. The examination themes will not come from a single authority but from educational regions. And I wonder: How will the constitution guarantee equality when other issues enter the school of Evros and other issues at the school of Crete? In fact, that was what you were thinking about when you were talking about stepping up the role of high school, and especially of the 3rd grade, or is it an upgrade of the abolition of the Latin lesson, which we all studied in classics, do we know how useful it seemed to us? This seems, of course, also by the fact that the whole of Europe, with a Protestant France, instead of reducing, is increasing the hours of classical ancient languages, knowing their importance. You're the only ones who deceive them. For example, the standards and experimental methods have been amazing for your anger over the last four years to unleash these good schools, which have been done in the past. And you come today to give them the final blow, abolishing whatever autonomy they had, that allowed them to serve excellence, teaching students, based on the best practices of education, with new cognitive objects. Today, with this bill, you come to finish them and turn them into typical public schools. The truth is that in this part you represent worthy, genuine left policies, such as the logic of the minor effort, passing a message that any student can be made from the last, first, without moving his finger, it is enough - for example - to be lucky in a draw, to take the flag. He doesn't have to be excellent at his homework. This is the first time left. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close my speech with an email I received from a student, my fellow citizen of the Second High School of the Experimental GLEN Patras, who says to me: "Mr. Foila, I am called... - I omit the name - “... I am a student of the Second High School of the Experimental GEL Patras. In 2018 I participated in the Panhellenic Informatics Competition and I was one of the four people who managed to join the national team. So I competed at the International Informatics Olympiad in Japan, Tsukuba, where I got a bronze medal, also in the Balkan Informatics in 2018 winning a bronze medal... - has the links to not think he's lying to us - "...and to the European Youth Informatics Olympiad in 2017 silver medal". According to the Laws, therefore, it says 2003 and 2015, Minister, those who have distinguished themselves in all these competitions can pass beyond the number of importers in higher education sections of the positive courses, as well as in economics and informatics. "However, with the changes that are now coming, Mr Minister..." - as the student says - "...in addition IT ceases to be a lesson, which is included in the positive guidance group, so that I and the other students, with the same distinction in IT, are excluded from the schools of polytechnics, beyond that, that is, the number of importers, as was the case with the previous bill, many of whom are directly related."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u315	Where does that come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u316	It's coming up. That's what the student says. Look inside. It's coming up. And the student continues: "It is a gross injustice that I do not have this privilege, when the time and reading I devote to preparing for the international Olympians is undoubtedly more than is required for the pan-Hellenic exams. The education system in our country must invest in students like me, since we bring so many medals to our country. Please very much, Mr Fotella, make sure that Mr Gavroglou changes this injustice." That's what the student says. What do you say to him, Minister? I know what I'm going to say. You answered him and told him that you shouldn't be my boy, you and your family, invest in excellence. You have to invest in luck. Only if you're lucky, with that government, you might have a pretext. If you're excellent, you have no luck. So I tell him this student to invest in excellence, because soon we will reward him and give him what he deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr. Firela. Congressman Kozanis Mumulides is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u318	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The reason for this is that the State Secretary for Rural Development, Mrs. Tyiyoridou, has the floor. And to prevent some, on the basis of the Constitution, Rule 66(2), the Ministers and the State Secretarys are free to enter Parliament's meetings and are heard so they are asking for the floor. Madam Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u319	Thank you very much, Mr President. Looks like some people don't want to hear Castoria's voice from this step. But as hard as they are with this bill, the voice of Kastoria will be heard...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u320	Kastoria spoke. First it sounded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u321	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u322	...and from this step and day after day to day in our common constituency. So today, ladies and gentlemen, it is a day - a day and a day, for the general school to be upgraded - through the upgrading of the class of the Third High School, but also for higher education, as after two years of discussions, partnerships and synergies, the Ministry of Education has resulted in the new architecture of higher education. With the aim of upgrading public education and always based on academic and educational criteria, the cooperation of the TEIs with universities has been decided, the creation of new departments that are compatible with the educational and development dynamics of the institutions, the establishment of two-year curricula, the establishment of institutes. All of this - all two years, because it seems to me somewhere that technical and technological education is no longer in place - they will now give qualifications as professional certificates and qualifications throughout Europe. New Democracy, after the heir of the "ATHENA" project in higher education, comes today and reacts to the upgrading of public universities in the country. And he does this, not because he cares, based on educational and academic criteria, for higher education, but because he has a secret agenda. They say that universities and the merger should not take place, because that - he says - he will have graduates who do not go hand in hand with the labour market. They do not, however, tell us that they actually want fewer people to enter public universities, to have 'customers' for the private universities that they dream of. There they do not care if the graduates from the private universities they want will have synergy with the labour market, because that is where the children will go, which they can pay. And these are rather more their own children, the children of excellent economics. What the New Democracy and its Chief really want is to shut down regional universities and create customers for private ones. They are already undermining this effort. A characteristic example is the merger at the University and at the TEI of Western Macedonia, which is trying to undermine it, even though it has been best welcomed by local communities. So once they saw that this bill favors the University and the TEI in Western Macedonia, they began to say that it is not going to happen and that it is the pre-election proclamation. And now that they see that the university is moving on and being voted tomorrow, they have come to try to say that this university - and this is called by local officials of the New Republic of the region - will be an area of lawlessness, that this university will be a man of lawlessness. And not being able to handle this issue in local society, they are trying to deceive the university community and the students. This shows us how much they appreciate university education, but also the Greek youth, who are trying to tell us at first that it is criminal. It's incredible what's happening, at least in our area. So those who voted for the Athens project will do well today to be more careful, because we - and the local society - remember their statements very well when they said about their own ministers that they are not wearing pants. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mrs Olympia Tygioridou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] So our ministers are different. We support investment in education, in the Greek family, in our children, because we believe that private interests, the Greek society, should not end up through the greatest good of our culture, which is education. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u323	Mr Mavrotta, you have the floor for five minutes, with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. I only have five minutes, and I will go straight to the point, without mentioning the unacceptable procedure, which is systematically followed in the field of education. The House is considered to be decorative, and here it could be done a substantial job and it could be corrected - as far as possible - the obvious damage caused by the bill. That is why we are not leaving the process, considering that we must fight this battle to the last word, until the last minute, perhaps something to rescue. This super-project is the result of a confiscated ballot of various factors, the victim of higher education and the SYRIZA government. Even today, there are parliamentary amendments calling for university departments and institutes to be set up. Is that how we go, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? Let's see how many will be accepted, Minister. Let's start over. Nowadays a definitive tomb is placed on the TEI stadium, without having agreed if we need our productive model that grade. The question is: Where will medium-sized executives now be drawn from, from the point of view of applications, which are necessary in the production pyramid? From the two-year structures, which the Minister imagines will work in universities, or will they be all university graduates in a growing professional environment, where, as in the economy, we will ultimately be underestimated by the 'legislation'? And what's the currency in our case? The degree. So we're going to get a lower payout for everyone. The same applies to the upgrading of four-year engineering studies in five-year polytechnic studies. So with a law, with an article. And we've been running to do all this since next September. What happens after all? We will simply fill out the computers of unsuspecting children who will see nice section titles, but they will in fact be 'empty shirts'. Because neither the staff nor the infrastructure nor the curriculum can be obtained in a few months' time. Legislation now, to create expectations, and then a real fire is mixed. Because the Minister today admitted that Potami is the only one that makes proposals, no matter whether he never approves it, let me not deny him some suggestions. For the University of TEIs, we told it two years ago in the Committee on Educational Affairs, where he chaired it. What were we talking about then? That some TEI departments are very well, pauses of universities and can be university-based. Some will need a transition period of three, four years and some will never become a university. So simple, so clear. But you, Minister, forget all this and come, like Harry Potter, with the magic wand and you do all of it in a year. If, indeed, we want to do university departments everywhere, how? Let us put a threshold on the universities, for example, of the eight thousand molecules - not to say the ten thousand that is the middle of the score scale - and then open up all the parts we want. If not forty, fifty children have written over eight thousand molecules and wish to study in the department - attention, not as their first choice, but as their first choice - then why should there be as a university department? Just for the teachers, the administrative and cafes of the city? That is the way we are going to get out of what you have been working on, but unfortunately you are going to follow. Who? Every city and school, every village and department. The first teachers may not be in the Chamber today so that they do not vote against something that brings votes to the periphery, but you have exceeded them. Let's go to high school. We all agree that high school has lost its character, that it must be upgraded and regained its true meaning. We believe that this cannot be done without a single national dismissal. We have told you our proposals to be credible and not to be the dismissal of 'all twenty', as you are all about it, because it will be counted on the introduction to the HEIs and will fall all the weight on the teachers, 'don't cut off the future of the children'. The solution is objective, uniform and uniform evaluation, through an advanced form of the themes bank, on issues of crisis, multiple choice, easily correct, in order to reduce responsibility and burden on teachers. Because when a teacher does his job well and puts regular topics, to make a real assessment at school another teacher puts easily topics to write all children well, "do not cut their future", you understand that there is an injustice there. And the system will be slowly driven into putting everyone easily, putting all twenty-six. And then we'll wonder why the level falls in the name of a so-called bourgeoisie policy. And since I said 'atoxic', let's also go to the standards and experimental schools, the institution that shows the way to public education, with the level of education, which provided children with all the social classes. Why do you change their status? Did you assess it and see that something is wrong or did you just listen to your trade union advisors who have targeted the pilot schools, not now, since 2015? Our proposals and here they are clean. The institution of the pilot experiments must be extended to each county and to the ESDP rather than undermined. To keep these few possibilities of autonomy so that they can do their work, such as the possibility of modified working hours that lets them breathe and create, groupings and other innovative activities. Respect their peculiarities, which make them the only competitors of private schools. To try to spread their practices to other public schools and not to do the opposite, namely to impose the practices of conventional schools and standards experimentally, as it is now trying to do. In closing, Minister, I would like to say that, unfortunately, your legislative swing is a cause for academic populism and vote. Quantitative extension and not qualitative upgrading for university education, what the country really needs. Unfortunately, the damage will be reversed by educational and academic discounts, but it will be expensive to pay them in the future. I know that it is unpopular to say that they do not bring votes and that is why you will not hear them from the other parties, but at some point we need to learn to speak only truths. If we're just talking about society and our young people, we're going to have more and more indifferent students in downgrading departments who will produce graduates to have a paper, even then use it somewhere. Paper, not knowledge. But, at some point, we have to move from paper to letters if we are interested in the next generations and not in the next ballots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr. Mavrota. The floor is given by the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas, for 12 minutes with time tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, the world has a tomb and you're a secret curtain! In order to avoid reactions to the draft law on high school, the negative consequences of mergers in higher education, you are able to bring it even on Easter Sunday. However, once again this move of your Government, to vote with closed universities, with closed schools, without saying anything else, proves the profound reactionary nature of this bill. Such an spectacular profile is envy by the New Democracy, which is that it is quite a burden, because the SYRIZA Government is congratulating itself on various aspects and on the issues of education, as on other issues, and the maps to capitalists are giving and getting one of the shipowners' phones for two-year-old engineers - your advisers have proudly said so at the meeting in POSDP, obviously because they are cheap - an appointment with the ambassador - one is the ambassador - who is then announcing programs of acquaintance with the State Department, the American Embassy. From this progressive, we say, you'll get nothing! Ladies and gentlemen, take back the high school bill. Take it back, even at the last minute. You have the students, the students, the parents, the teachers. Only the owners of the big care chains rub their hands. We don't. They're written in "SUBJECT" these. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In fact, a representative of the caregivers wrote in your paper that it is certain that with this bill your records will go up. What can we say? "Moder spectacular bill, die", as the students themselves say. A high school - competition are being created. Not that the high school that we are now living on is not an omnipotence of integrated education, and that is why we are not defending it. On the contrary, you know that the JRC and the CNN forces within schools, the progressive teachers, the parents opposed the high school promoted by the New Democracy. So stop claiming that the opposition of the JRC to this bill is the defence, allegedly, of today's school. Your government, you, catch the thread from where it stopped with New Democracy and the PASOK and you complete this crime, and that is why you're using about the same language, about the same propaganda. You see, the pain in adolescence, as you say, about youth, just like the pain in Mrs Diamantopoulou, which said in 2011, is a problem that the pan-Hellenic exams become a headline, as he had pain in 2013 in New Democracy, which said high school is being deceived. The same is true of the case when you are defending that Greece is the only country that does not have a 3rd grade. Is that the problem, gentlemen of the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u327	Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u328	Definitely not. Because the problem of high school, Mr Gavroglou - which you are constantly flying with this hood, which you do not understand, and we have told you, stop it, especially when it is a representative of another political party - to give it to your Chief to answer after he speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u329	I asked you your opinion, Mr. Kutsuba. So what are you telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u330	And I answer 'how much not'. The problem of high school is its curriculum, to say exactly the way it is and as the whole education community says, it is its caregiver. That's what high school makes. These lead young people and young people who are in a search phase, in a state of trouble, to put brakes on their own concerns, knowledge in school, since these, you see, are not about their examinations and they are looking elsewhere. Do you really want to talk about problems, gentlemen of the government? The problem is the very life of young people. It's the free time that disappears and this doesn't save either if in the schools the bell rings at 9:00'because the pressure and the runner will continue, they will be transferred an hour later. It is stress, pressure, home problems, adolescence, learning difficulties for which there is no help in high school. All of this dissolves students at a truly beautiful and sensitive age. Tell us what of this is all about four years and three months when you've been in the government? But the students want to live, want to learn. Parents want to see their children progress, set targets to catch them and want a school that will really help and does not exclude knowledge. They don't want, they can't and they can't stand putting their hand in the pocket any more. Teachers do not want to be wheelchairs of performance in a school-training arena, but to contribute, as far as possible, their students to approach the world scientifically. But that's not a reason, gentlemen. Let us remind you - if you've forgotten - that you've been in the government for four years and not changed the school books, only two - three. So progressive are you that you keep among the other book of the 3rd High School History that has the seal of the New Democracy and you know that. Don't tell us you didn't have time. The Minister of Education himself has stated that a new book takes a year and a half to come out. So elsewhere is the issue, in your fundamental agreement on the contents of the books that entered into the New Democracy in 2006 kept the PASOK and you kept them. Gentlemen of the government, you're mocking people when you say that with high school changes the need for a tutorial will be reduced. It's a party the various caretakers are doing. They know more than we understand. Students don't go to tutoring because there are three, four general education lessons more and now that you're reducing them, they're going to stop - supposedly - going. It's at least funny to plead such a argument. In fact, you said the outrageous thing that with the six courses that students will have in the third grade, the teacher will sometime say "Today, we will discuss children a matter of time and beyond". Here, they're only laughing. But, well, don't we know what's going on? Don't you know what's going on in school? Any limited opportunity for the teacher to discuss more general issues with his students will hardly be reduced, because quite simply, he will have to take out all the materials, the sos, just because we are talking about school-training. And a school-training school, a school of inquiries, that is, as you do, is a school that leads teachers to run the matter, because it is a matter of material being examined in a pan-Hellenic exam. The question remains: Does this school stop being destructive and repellent? Sure, no, we do. Some people in here are constantly asking for the JRC's proposals, although they say they read them well, are being informed by them, as they claim. Let us repeat that the JRC has presented its positions in detail for the single 12-year-old school of modern education. The school we claim opens the horizons of young people, helps them to develop their entire personality, contributes to the overall development of their overall capacity, cultivates, stimulates the gradients to their interests, promotes their initiative and inventivity. How can you understand all this, however, when you are bailing it on the narrow limits of entrepreneurship, as the European Union of course demands that it be done from pre-school age? We will say it and we will call it: No matter what profession man is involved in the course of his life, he must first and foremost have a basic speciality, he must be a human being. When man becomes only a student, he ceases to be a human being. And in order to make it more meagre, because perhaps some young yapis in your government or possibly in other parties may not see the elementary greek ones now, we say: Whatever profession one has to be educated, to know the history of his place, to know his language, basic principles, but also the new findings of fast-growth natural sciences and their applications so that young people can find a point in this ocean of misinformation, obtain a scientific criterion. This school shouts that all students have hands to write, but also to paint, sculpture, to engage in simple and modern machines. They have mouths to say the lesson, but also to sing, to play theatre. They have legs to go to school, but also to dance, run, stand on them and find their own firm step in life. They have eyes to see in the painting, to read, but also to enjoy the theatre, the cinema, the stars, the sea. And those lacking for various reasons some of them must be supported through state structures to be able to stand on an equal footing with others. Because science has progressed, and because our time has improved our own special education, there should also be access for people with disabilities. Finally, students and students have a mind, but not to store various information, but mainly to think, imagine, dream, create. As for those who do not understand these things or say "now, the JRC tells us again these generals etc." and they are even honest about what the JRC is proposing here and now, at the moment, we are answering them: the JRC is struggling today for a different way of access, even as a relief measure, as a measure to strengthen the efforts of the pupils of the people's families, with unlimited possibility of multiple choices of preference, with the right to repeat the procedure as many times as the candidates wish, with the possibility of obtaining a rating and the next years. These proposals have been submitted to Parliament by our party and the SYRIZA Government has rejected them. And the government has rejected our proposals with a total laughter that these proposals are supposed to benefit - it says - the children of the prosperous classes. If possible. The prosperous classes have solved problems of this nature. They have several alternatives, too many. They have decided a long time ago where their children will be sent if they do not succeed in the pan-Hellenic at the university department of their choice. They'll send them to some good university probably abroad. Only children of the people's families can be helped by these measures that we are proposing to go to parts of their first choices. This has shown, moreover, the experience of the 1980s and the early 1990s. Until the late Arsenis of PASOK came in and brought it all over. And to keep us from forgetting, all these guys were talking about a strong high school dismissal. That's why they opened the way for this high school-examination center. But, like you, you got an answer from young people and young people. And you've already got an answer from the youth. And you'll get it today, because right now, they're protesting on the streets of Athens. They are the more than twenty thousand students who have been mobilised in various and diverse ways throughout this year in every city in our country. It is the interventions and actions of associations, parents' associations. It is the concern expressed by the teachers with their recent mobilisations. Otherwise, you are cut off to hear the voice of our young people. You attacked the student mobilizations, when the Minister of Education himself did not hesitate to mock the slogan of the students "school to form rather than to exterminate" and even to characterize it utopian. Really, what did you guys want to yell at? Did you want to call the SYRIZA Government, 'Have education merchandise'? You attacked the parents of the Hellenic Higher Association of Parents who have not met them once. You also accused them of having no proposals. You mean, obviously, they don't have any proposals that like your own government. And you went further. Where there's no false reason, a bar falls. Your government has retired the MATs, the repression, the miscarriages, the well-known disciples. This year, the cases of authoritarianism and terrorism in schools were more than any other year. Even arrests of minor students we had from the police. And all this on the order of several directors you know them, gentlemen of the government, because you're members of the same party, to SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, you have brought a broom bill completing the landscape in higher education, as you promised the institutions, the troika, the quartet, anyway, to the OECD and other well-being institutions. You brought a bill that is detailed up to antenna on the issues of the association of institutions with the profitability of capital. On the contrary, the issues of the daily life of students are in the air. And the question arises: With what teachers, with what infrastructures, what rooms, what workshops, with which secretaries and staff will the supposed university be supported? Without an increase in state funding? Without a teacher's call? And don't tell us about the LPA positions you have announced. Here there are too many departments that in recent years have lost up to a hundred teachers because of retirement. So these positions, at a time when so many new sections are being created and you want to baptize them and university, are literally a drop in the ocean. And who told you that the establishment of a university department should not be accompanied by the establishment of cafés, clubs, structures of student care, which are related to both culture and entertainment and the sport of students. So, are we going to consider all this luxurious today? It's no luxury for the people's family to know that you don't have to put your hand in the pocket again to study her children, pay rent, feed and so much more. Let me turn to a more general point of view with which your Government is trying to make oil and also to promote European Union policy. The Prime Minister, the Minister, says so, the Undersecretaries and this "caramella" goes orally into the mouth. He says, for example, the Prime Minister in the House on November 23, 2018: “Knowledge is self-worth, regardless of whether he will get a diploma from the university will be able to find after work, because this is another story. This, however, is a market-related issue.' You're unacceptable. You're actually telling young people to put their degrees in a coronary, to resign from the requirement to work on the subject they studied. There is no more supply to the co-operatives, who are asking for reduced demands from young people and young people. But to be fair with you, here is the so-called atrocity going hand in hand - with the market dancing at the pace you and your government play. Obviously that is why you are taking practical steps to disconnect the diploma from the profession, from placing it against the market and from the point of view of employers. We're not ashamed! Because that's what you're taking. We have also seen it in the unacceptable law that you have passed on the appointment of teachers, which leads to a competitive process of qualification, since diplomas do not give access to the profession among graduates. Well, we're telling you quite clearly and we're telling you this loudly to hear if SYRIZA youth at universities, 2% of the last elections, has not told you: young people are not studying in general to become scientists, but working scientists. In addition, we say: to contribute to what Breech said, 'to alleviate the hardship of human existence'. They didn't disintegrate their parents to see them leave the strangers, to be unemployed or to do leg jobs, no matter what they studied. That is why we say that today, rather than for some extreme future, it is a modern need for graduates, today's scientists, to be able to work on the subject they studied. That is why we are fighting today, in order not to add new ones and also to overturn existing obstacles with the various types of certifications, which the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK are implementing before, of SYRIZA today. Gentlemen of the Government, you have proved to be the best student in the European Union, a worthy follower of the most brilliant cases left by all the previous governments of New Democracy and PASOK in the field of higher education. What does capital ask for? Just things: a large tank of graduates, wages squeezing downwards. That is the basic meaning of mergers, among others. That is what your Government is doing and the mergers that we are debating today. The categorisation of institutions, degrees and graduates is growing, with, for example, the different schools for the same subject, with different duration and curriculum. Do you still want to talk about tuition? On SYRIZA most graduates were approved and operated with tuition fees we have ever had in Greek universities. With so many new departments set up with this bill, it is obvious that the student's "knife" to continue in postgraduate studies, as well as complementing their curriculum and find a temporary place in the darkest labour market sun, will reach unprecedented levels. But here the government has now put on the agenda and undergraduate courses. SYRIZA adopts the first such programs at Greek universities. And you dare disprove of the so-called defenders of Article 16. I'm scared of you! More typical example than this bill could be difficult to find. The International University is planned to operate first-cycle courses aimed at Greek and foreign students, whose costs will be borne by them. Finally, do you want to take the subject of the professional equivalency of all kinds of colleges with the diplomas of the Greek universities? The representative of private colleges in the Committee on Educational Affairs also said so. The bill, he said, is in the right direction. And he knows, and he knows, and he knows, of course. With this bill, SYRIZA accelerates the procedures for the recognition of qualifications offered by the three-year private colleges, thus sealing the creation of even more categories of graduates and graduates, so that the rights and prospects of all are ultimately undermined. By speeding up the implementation procedures of this European Union directive, there is another step towards the recognition and legalisation of private education, another step towards the abolition of Article 16 in practice. And that is not enough, you have even added an unacceptable article to the bill, which opens the way to a four-year-old project with five-year-old children in high school and high school. You're unacceptable! Get that device back here and now. And if you want to talk about essential integration of infants and adolescents into pre-school education structures, take concrete measures. The government can find money from the millions it gives business groups and billions that our people pay each year for defence spending, not Greece, but for NATO's aggressive actions. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, today the JRC will vote against the entire bill for all the reasons that we have already mentioned, and today I and the Members who have spoken and spoken. This attitude expresses us the overwhelming majority of students, students, parents, teachers, the whole of the people and youth, who are protesting against this bill. Young people, all those who have been mobilised this year, know very well that the JRC was with them, strengthened in any way the fair fight they give. Youth, who exclude her from knowledge, because you want to rule her out of a life with rights, can change her life. Together with the people can make a difference to build a world truly free, open, full of hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u331	Thank you to the chairman of the JRC Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u333	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u334	I would like to make some clarifications, not, of course, political controversy. When the bodies, two representatives, the representatives of the schools and the representatives of the private colleges came to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, they were against the bill. I don't know if you remember, Mr. Delis, because you were all over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u335	It's not like that and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u336	How is that not so? Was she in favor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u337	Check it out in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u338	Look at the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u339	But it's just in the Minutes. You mean it was pro?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u340	I'll give it to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u341	The tutorial - remember - took one, one each phrase, each article to say that this is wrong and we better keep going as they are. It's not all that big falsifications. I'm not saying, because the homeowners were against what we're doing is amazing and ideal. But at least not to mislead the Greek people by saying what has been said. The same applies to private colleges. Now in terms of postgraduate, please hold the numbers. As regards postgraduate diplomas that took place after the law passed in August 2017 and that New Democracy considered the whole system to be blown into the air, the number of free postgraduate diplomas has increased. In relation to what it was, it increased by 25%. Also, 30% of all postgraduate students do not pay tuition fees. That has been the case for today, so that we know a little what we are talking about. Look at the fact that there are undergraduate tuition fees, unless you want them not to pay tuition fees and those from outside the European Union, because for one section, which is at the University of Athens in Philosophy, English-language, and the International University's, it says that people who come outside the European Union will pay registration fees. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I am really surprised at the fact that you want universities to adapt to the labour market. I didn't expect it from you. I was expecting it from elsewhere, but you see it came from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u342	Well, that's where we're laughing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u343	This is where we laugh. Of course, we must laugh and as much as you want to laugh, but that is what I have heard, that universities adapt to the labour market.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u344	They have work to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u345	As to what you said about infants and pre-schools, it is clear that you have voted against compulsory two-year pre-school education. It's obvious you don't want it. You don't want her because you don't think we should have two-year-old kindergartens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u346	Mr. Andreas Risoulis, SYRIZA Member, has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr President. I am not saying this, of course, because I have already listened to the Secretary-General of the Communist Party, but this general - I am sorry to say now to the Minister - about what education and education we want, if anyone sees in the minutes the dean of the Union of Rectors, he will see that he said that. He said about the education that we want, he said what we want for the younger, but also about various things beautiful and nice and close at the end and said that he expects when this government is going to fall so that change to higher education does not apply. That's exactly what he said. I don't know if it was a KIC because I actually read this piece. Then, of course, he showed someone else to rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u348	Leave it, you lost it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u349	It's okay. Look at it so you can see it. The President of the Rectors, whom we did not call, but he came himself, and we also accepted reproach for it, was asked for two things. First of all, he was asked about who he represents for everything he said about the bill and said that he represents himself and, secondly, when he was asked why he did not take the universities all those teachers who are on offer from the state and from the Ministry to the universities and are not absorbed, and that is why he answered. The only answer is that he's waiting for this government to fall. What I want to say here and it will probably be a little big saying it, but I will explain it, is that, in implementing this bill and in discussing it, we have this classic that we are talking about, the confrontation between progress and maintenance. I call it grand, but I'll supplement it to it that it's not colorless. Here's the weird part. No color. Everyone tells us to get it back. Everyone for their reasons, but nobody sees anything good about it. In every new, regardless of whether he wants to solve or solve problems, resistances of a establishment appear. And it can be political, it can be academic - in our case is academic -, not only by fear of young and innovation, but also by purpose. And what's going on? What's the result? That the old, problematic, problematic, problematic is being chosen. These resistances lead there. And, of course, we say it out loud. The only thing that can be objected here is New Democracy, which can say: for slowly children, we are progressive and we are progressive, because, first of all, we are in favour of private education and the possibility of anyone choosing private or public education and reasoning, of course, that at the end of the market competition will determine who will stay and who will leave. And here comes the feasibility. They refuse to develop public education. Not in law school, because lawyers won't have a job. But if the private university wants legal schools, we don't care. This is about buying, getting people to pay and getting lawyers' degrees. Don't worry about it and the public university develops. And because this is clearly the serious work that is being done with the International University, we have no position in New Democracy, by the Civic Opposition for the International University. Is this development being carried out with new sections, with a children's approach and from Greece, and above all from abroad, in a good way? We didn't hear any placement on it. However, we have heard that there will be problems with university education, especially the Polytechnic School, because there will be too many engineers - this has been said by both the New Democracy and others - and there will be more problems. That is why we are hiding the TEIs, which we have done since 1993 Higher Technical Education Institutions, and we have scored tens of thousands - I do not know how many people from the TEIs - engineers, technicians from other sciences - who lack professional rights, have problems in the labour market, come from schools that have no professional right to talk here. We're just saying we're gonna solve it when we get here. Since 1993, since 2001, we have wanted the TEIs to produce - in order to help some scientists who have no professional right, do not have a job right. In what I said about progress and maintenance, I will repeat the words of the Council, but also of the President of the Department of Municipal Education, University of Patras, who made a statement, which says that the power of inaction often undermines bold and innovative proposals. Eventually it is the same story that justifies or condemns such choices. We don't understand what Census will bring when it abolishes this. We haven't figured it out. I have only heard some suggestions from Mr Matutes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm fine in time. Finally, I will say that you have a great passion and a strong will with the abolitions. We will abolish this draft law on higher education and all the other provisions that come with the bill. Recently, to get out a little bit of the bill, you said you'd abolish everything that this government legislates. But you're taking it later on. You will be abolishing the presents and recently yesterday, the old President of EMU and now the Member of the European Parliament said he would abolish the unemployment benefit. It's all gone. Minister, I and Mr Spartino and Mrs Anagnostopoulou have tabled an amendment to the school in Ayios and another, which concerns the Centre for Vocational Training, and I want you to see it positively. Also, because you will abolish everything when you come out in the next election, I would like to wish good Easter and welcome SYRIZA and our gathering to Patra the day before yesterday. And as to whether you're taking the government, we're gonna see this very well in the elections that will be coming in September. I wish you all a happy holiday, and we're watching.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr. Risouli. Minister, do you now want to tell us which amendments you are accepting so that we can go ahead?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u351	Yes, Mr President, you are right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u352	Thank you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u353	There are ministerial amendments from other ministries. I'll read the general number and the specialist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u354	And other ministries?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u355	Yes, I am talking about what colleagues have come here to present. It is the amendment with a general number 2127 and a specialist of 236 relating to the Ministry of Rural Development. It is Amendment No 2128, and Amendment No 237, which concerns what Mr Haritsis has analysed. Amendments Nos 2129 and 238, with a general number of 2131 and a specific number of 240, with a general number of 2133 and a special number of 242, with a general number of 2134 and a special number of 243 and a general number of 2139 and a special number of 248.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u356	Are these accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u357	They're accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u358	Are they ministerial ministers of other ministries?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u359	Yeah, they're other ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u360	It was that you wouldn't accept other ministers, Minister. You said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u361	I didn't say anything like that. I don't understand exactly what the problem is. Can I tell you something, though? It is not possible for everything we say and for everything that we clarify to be interrupted. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u362	Is this the first time?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u363	There is one amendment - these are the parliamentary amendments - concerning the addition of primary school managers and their secondment to vocational training centres. This has been done with legislative improvement, and so it makes no sense to accept it. The second is the industrial hemp of Mr Papadopoulos and Mr Kamaterou. She's accepted. As regards the amendment by Mrs Jack and Mr Sifakis to the Department of Music at the International University, it is accepted. The amendment by Mrs Vayonakis, Mr Vardakis and Mr Danellis on the strengthening of flooding in the region of Crete is accepted. There is an amendment from Mr Delis, Mr Pafilis, Mr Giokas, Mr Karathanasopoulos, Mr Synthriakis and Mr Tassos, and it relates to an arrangement for the Greek examinations. He said so a moment ago, and the Secretary-General of the JRC said so. I really cannot understand the content of this amendment. I understand correctly that the amendment says that everyone must give as many times as they want and keep every lesson they consider to be favorable to them. If that is the amendment, it is an incomprehensible amendment, that is, I cannot understand it unless it is not. In this form, however, which gives the impression I am telling you very clearly, it cannot be accepted. Now, as far as the regulation for students and graduates of departments merging, being absorbed, is abolished by this bill, again by Mr. Delis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u364	Excuse me, Minister, can you give us numbers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u365	Excuse me very much, you are absolutely right. Should I tell you all along, or...?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u366	If you can, at least for the parliamentary committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u367	Sure. The following amendments are accepted, Amendment No 2111/224, Amendment No 2113/225 and Amendment No 2115/226. Amendment No 2118/227 is unacceptable. And now we are in Amendment No 2119/228 on regulation for students and graduates of departments merging, being absorbed, being abolished under this bill. You're obviously referring to the previous graduates if I'm not mistaken again. Again, the amendment is not clear at all. Above all, I do not understand it, and after all that story about micro-groups, because we are doing all of this for voting reasons and the rest. In this form it cannot be accepted. Now, in terms of student and student relocations - it is the amendment with a general number of 2120 and a special number of 229 - look, there is a very serious subject with the relocations. I know we disagree on this. You think those who apply for relocation should be relocated. This can't be done. What can be done is for all the parties to consult on what the rules of the relocations are and above all to consult on the issue of children with extremely serious health problems, which are often afflicted by the process and bureaucracy. Last year, we exceeded percentage and in absolute numbers the number of transcripts. Many times it's at the expense of other departments. It doesn't help academically too many times. We have moved on to allow brothers to study together and therefore it is not compulsory for parents to have their children in two different places, but it is not possible for anyone applying to be relocated. With regard to the arrangements for the transfer of school guards from Mrs Theleritis, Mr Thivaios, Mrs Kozobol, Mr Morfidis, Mr Pratsol, Mr Skourletis and Mr Stefou. It is the amendment with a general number of 2121 and a specific number of 230. Amendment No 2122/231, concerning the payment of a fine for arbitrary structures within land port, is accepted. Mr Rizzoulis and Mr Spartinos are tabling an amendment concerning the following: the centre, the headquarters of vocational training centres to coordinate the two-year curriculum. This is acceptable to the proposal, but this proposal must go to the Congress of the University of Patras, so that it can be decided. He's obviously going on a positive suggestion of ours. The same applies again to the amendment by Mr Rizzoulis and Mr Spartin on the subject of optics and optimism in the saint. This department will have a special collaboration with the Material Science Department and obviously, until these children complete the present phase of their studies they will be in Holy. The same applies to Amendment No 2125/234. It is the proposal to set up an Institute for Vineyards and Wine and Beekeeping at the University of Peloponnese by Mrs. Theleritis, Mr. Giolas, Mr. Choga and Mr. Psychogios. This once again is accepted on the substance, but we cannot legislate unless there is a decision of the Senate. The University of Peloponnese has promised to send us the research institutes it proposes and we will therefore ask that this be one of them as well. There is one proposal, one amendment, the amendment No 2126/235 on the registration of graduates from the Physics Departments of PIs as members of the Pan-Hellenic Society of Physics therapists. It's obviously accepted. The amendment by Mr Paradise and Mr Kourakis under number 2130/239 is accepted. It is about giving the Foundation of Sanctuary Studies certificates for various languages, regardless of whether in some of these languages the certificate can be taken from elsewhere. Evidently IMFI must also give such certifications. Mr. Stefo, Mrs. Theleritis, Mr. Risulis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u368	Excuse me, Minister, is the amendment accepted by a specialist of 239?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u369	It's accepted, obviously. With regard to the amendment tabled by Mr Stefou, Mrs Theleritis, Mr Rizzoulis, on the vote of the Committees of Inquiry, it is acceptable. The mobilisation of the candidates for the pan-Hellenic examinations for 2019 by Zakynthos due to earthquakes of Mr. Kontonis is accepted. Amendment No 2135/244 is accepted. Amendment No 2136/245 by Mrs Georgopoulos - Saltaris and Mr Balaura for the establishment of institutes in the region of Elias, in Amaliada, cannot be accepted. In this case, the important thing is that we will send it to the University of Patras. As regards the amendment by Mr Mitafidis and Mr Excellency, I note that there was an empty law for girls who were distinguished in Mathematical Olympians, so that they could have a favourable entry to universities. While planned for Balkans, they were not for Europeans. We are providing for it by means of Amendment No 2137, and Amendment No 246. The amendment, with a general number of 2138 and a special number of 247, relates to the irreversible, a small number of which had been left out. We believe that they too can be included in the provision that we have already voted on. The inclusion of fire extinguishers in the list of successful ones with the amendment with a general number of 2140 and a special number of 249, and by Mrs Kozobol and Mr Saridis, is accepted. The establishment in Argos in 2021 of a Department of Rural Economy with the amendment of a general number 2141 and a specialist of 250 from Mr Giola is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u370	Now that he's back, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u371	Please. A little serious. I'd like to ask you a little serious. Okay? You have every right to speak from the Step, but this underneath, the way is unacceptable, you will allow me. "As it turns", "now spins" should not be said here. Do you have any arguments?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u372	I'll see you around.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u373	If you have, here's the Step. You have every right to say it, but not 'now coming back'. Essential seriousness.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u374	Now that it's spinning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u375	Please don't make it worse. There's a proposal to transfer Drama's Architecture Department to Kilkis. It has been withdrawn and therefore by definition it cannot be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u376	Minister, the services of this House ask you to state briefly, with the figures alone, what amendments are accepted, because in some of the amendments you have said 'yes, in principle, but they should also be approved by the Senate'. To repeat 'yes' without clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u377	Sure. The 'yes' are the amendments with the following specifics: 224, 225, 226.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u378	You said 'no' to the amendment with a special number of 224.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u379	He had said yes to the amendment with a special number of 224.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u380	For the industrial cannabis. I'd made it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u381	So we're moving on well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u382	So I say 'yes' to the amendments with the following experts: 224, 225, 226, 230, 231, 234, 235, 239.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u383	In Amendment No 234 we said that they were here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u384	You're absolutely right. It's my fault. The 224 can't...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u385	234.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u386	Yeah. Amendments Nos 235, 239, 241, 244, 246, 247, 249, and 250 are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u387	Very good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u388	The amendment with a special number of 232?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u389	On 232 he said 'no'. He wants approval from the Senate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u390	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u391	Yeah, I've taken note of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u393	I hear you, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u394	We have been asked by the Minister, and we have to respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u395	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order, Mr President. Wait a minute. I won't be long.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u396	Mr. Delis, Mrs. Kerameos must be the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u397	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u398	Here, Mrs. Kerameau, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u399	Mr President, a request: because I have a number of three amendments to the Ministerial and Parliamentary Committee, we can have a situation in detail with the numbers accepted and what are not accepted, so that we too can do our job and know exactly what we are going to vote on?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u400	We'll let them bring us a painting, so we can share him with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u401	Thank you. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u402	The Minister, by rejecting all three amendments tabled by the JRC, asked us what we meant when we were talking about safeguarding the rating. He is, of course, very well aware of what it means to guarantee the rating and he has responded to it in his view that this is incomprehensible. Well, Minister, this 'incomprehensible' worked for several years until PASOK abolished it with Arsenis. This "incomprehensible", which you say, is exactly what helps poor students slowly holding their scores to go to school and that's what happened. Finally, it seems to us that it speaks of the inconceivable possibility of the Minister of Government who had been evangelizing and advertising free access to universities for some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u403	For how many years, Mr. Delis, would a student keep her?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u404	For whatever it takes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u405	For everything it takes. Yes, sir. It was never the 'for as long as necessary', Mr Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u406	Mr. Katsiantonis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u407	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again in the last few years you have been running us, we are going to discuss a multi-brand plan without being prepared. And we are not prepared because, above all, you, gentlemen of the government, are completely unprepared. You have said so too, Minister, that even though you have had your thoughts and your writings on our education for the last two years, you have not asked them and you have not heard them all. And as if that were not enough, you ended this by bringing the night to testify and vote by express procedure. Now, of course, you're going to tell me: well, in the last four years, you haven't gotten used to this tactic? Of course. And you certainly don't surprise us. But you are surprised that even for the future of our country you have not made an exception for our children. So, we are before the gates to experience the negative consequences of the changes that you bring back. And they will feel them - be sure - by the way, students, students, parents and teachers, since with all that you bring not only will we have no results, but will "lost eggs and passovers" all those involved in education, since everything you bring is literally work of the leg, such as the abolition of higher levels of technology and their fragmentation and merging in higher institutions of the university sector. Now how do you know and we don't understand why a TEI closes and another one to open, what to say? Personally, having lived abroad for several years as a Greek democrat and because I had joined the education system of the United States since very early age I knew that those schools that exist serve some professional space. Of course they were serving society and not the individual interests, as you are now doing with the regulations you are bringing. And you make promises and counterproductive promises. And remember that the result in the end will be zero, just like two years ago, in May 2017, when you said that you would abolish the pan-Hellenic exams, but rather along the way you changed your mind because some interests were obviously not served. And since this work didn't come to you, what are you doing now? You serve us a cold plate, a very old system, a system older than the old one, I'd say, the one with the packages. What you do, however, is just separate schools as high prestige and leave others for others. You actually divide our children, since you put them in the examination process without a bank of issues. And for the people who are watching us, in fact what will happen is that others will be the subject of examinations in Larissa, but in Trikala, but in Volos, but in Athens, because as you say, they will choose local teams of teachers. And how, Minister, will we ensure equal treatment of all children without exception? You do not know why you are doing it, for example with Latin. Instead of strengthening the classic letters, as they do so many other countries around the world, you remove them and literally throw them into Kaidas. And I submit in the Minutes a post of the last two months which says that nine out of ten high school schools in France have chosen the learning of ancient Greeks. I am also presenting in the Practical Publication entitled 'Students in Ghent demonstrate why they want to continue teaching ancient Greek and Latin.' And finally, I submit to the Practical Report that states that in Russia Greeks began to be taught as an official language of the country. [[At this point Mr Georgios Katsiantonis presents for the minutes the above mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With the system you bring, all you will achieve is to recreate "pads" that run for the high grade, without, of course, caring if our children are going to learn something. And how to care about you, since all you tell them is "Here, the doors have been opened, get into schools". What schools, though? Apparently, they're two speed schools. The ones who take them, you promote them to popular schools and others, with these vacant posts. Gentlemen of the government, all you do with this bill is build palaces in the sand. Because this is also the case with the changes you bring to the operation of the TEIs. What if the senators of the Aristotle University, the Metsovian Polytechnic, of the University of Peloponnese, are ye your hawa. Neither do you consider them nor do you hear them, nor do you leave them any rights. Desert of them you make decisions with regular decision and order for everyone and everything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And you haven't missed the experimental and standard schools, which you say, that the students will be introduced on a proposal from the Association of Teachers and with the final approval of the Minister, that is, yours, Minister. The Almighty! I'd say something about Maria Antoinette who told her people because she doesn't have bread, to eat pancakes, but I don't want to get any misunderstanding. Here we don't have schools, we don't have teachers, and every year we get to cover the gaps, and you want in the paperwork that's chasing you, to approve the students who will be in schools! Jesus Christ! And since we're talking about bureaucracy, let's add a little more for those kids who go to music and artistic schools, who are telling them this year suddenly to give tests with new system and material that you're going to tell them later. You probably think that a month is too long for these kids to prepare. And speaking of time, does it seem to you a lot of time since the recognition of college degrees and you said, "We don't change him again?" And here, bring the device and move the handkerchief on to these kids. I really don't know, do you think at all when you write? And if so, what did you think and conclude that we will see good from the absorption of the TEIs of Central Macedonia, Eastern Macedonia and Thrace and Thessaloniki from the International University of Greece? So you think if you create a university that has forty thousand students, this whole world will be served? I can't understand it. And what will you do if these three universities merge with the international, who so far only offers postgraduate degrees? Unfortunately, everything you bring is incoherent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u408	If you're kind, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u409	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I guess the anger of the people is pushing you and you're afraid of the result of the poll. And on the altar of your riot you are unfortunately taking our children, our future and our country, as recently as the merger of the University of Thessaly, which is so provocative, Minister, you said you did not care about the professional restoration of students, but only about their introduction. Nice future you're turning for our youth! But remember something, gentlemen of the government, that the poll is a female genus and is unpredictable and the people on the election day will punish you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u410	Before giving the floor to Mr Hatzidakis, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERYRIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fifty-six students and three escorts from the Military College of Officials (SAS). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform the students and students attending the plenary session that we are discussing a draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Science and TEI Synergies, access to higher education, experimental schools, General Archives of the State and other provisions". Today we are in the legislative debate, and the Members are taking the floor. The debate is expected to continue tomorrow morning and tomorrow at noon, so that if adopted - or the articles adopted - it will now be the law of the state. This is one of the two functions of Parliament's plenary and the other function is parliamentary control, exercised by all Members of all the parties to the government's ministers on the matter. There are various forms of parliamentary control. Perhaps another time you come, you can watch this process. So now we are in the legislative process and will continue with the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u411	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA's third memorandum brought it on the eve of the 15th century. This is where the indescribable bill brings it a large week, on Easter eve. Fortunately, elections are held, so that Christmas does not continue these very pleasant surprises, the government's offerings to the Greek people. The draft law we are debating today is, I would say, the most 'Syrian' bill of four years. Because it condensates the government, its philosophy, it is in the image and likeness of this government. Amateurism, sluggishness, left idealism and logic "I sacrifice everything for the small-party interest". It has already appeared from what has just occurred since the Secretary of State's position on the amendments. We have the urgency procedure, the urgency as the government says, but it is essentially urgent. We had the opportunity to study the bill for five hours before the procedure started in committee. Because it was urgent and some provisions had to be applied. He said, 'We had 17 months of dialogue'. Seventeen months of dialogue did the Minister do him well, but could he not save some time so that there could be a dialogue in this House? Because the highest stage of dialogue and according to the Constitution is in this Chamber. It's the temple of democracy. And then, after contempt for Parliament in relation to the urgency procedure, we have lived up to what we have previously experienced. I will recommend to the New Democracy the position of Mr Gavroglou - and this is the one that has already been mentioned - to make it an election spot, because it shows and who Mr Gavroglou is and what the Ministry of Education is and what the government is and who Mr Tsipras is. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. The Constitution and the Rules of Procedure provide that we cannot in the bills accept unnecessary amendments and also provide that we can accept at most three amendments. The Government, through the Minister, writes in earlier its footwear the provisions of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and accepts - if I have counted correctly, I may have counted incorrectly - eight or nine ministerial amendments which all, I think, are irrelevant to the bill. It is of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Interior, etc. You, who are progressive, and every day you move the finger that we are, supposedly, the maintenance and you are progress, aren't you disturbed by it? Aren't you disturbed by the next one? He accepted - I do not know how many - twenty-five, thirty-five amendments. I have the directory here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u412	Thirteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u413	What it was, Mr President. All together were over twenty. I have the directory here. All the amendments accepted by the Minister of Modernisation and Progressive Government - all of them! - they're late. I call for the modernisation and progress of SYRIZA! You should be seen by the Greeks, who believed that you would allegedly bring the new one to deepen their frustration. You are the modern edition of "Jube". You are the government that is nothing less than the "Jubes" of the 21st century. That's it! From there on, I'm coming to the point of the bill. You have a problem with experimental and standard schools. You consider them to be elite schools. In fact, they are key levers of social mobility, schools for equal opportunities for the children of poor families, who have competence in their studies. You come here and remove all autonomy. Everything will be decided by the Ministry of Education. It will not be possible for the experimental schools to fulfil what their title says to have an elementary originality. I shall now proceed to the examination system. After announcing the abolition of the pan-Hellenic examinations - all right, it is the classic announcement of all the demagogues in Greece - then the Minister changed every three and a little the arrangements he would bring for the examination system. It changed them again, of course, just before the bill was tabled. And what are you doing? After bringing this particular system, which in any case I have no time to analyse, you are deciding - so that you do not miss the opportunity, such a terrible, innovative system, not to apply immediately - that we are voting on it April and will be implemented in May. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Tens of governments have been in this country. Which government has he done? Which government? What's stopping you? If you want to legislate, in any case, to identify yourself with this terrible innovation, you must say that it will be implemented from time to time. To have kids a year to prepare. How much arrogant and how much ideoscopy! Let me move on. I should like to say that the recognition of the professional equivalence of graduates from European universities working with colleges in Greece. You're told by the Scientific Committee of Parliament. He tells you the arrangements are unconstitutional. And I happen to know, because I've known it since I was a Member of the European Parliament. They are clearly unconstitutional arrangements which, of course, will not be long-term, because after the elections they will be cancelled by the New Democracy. They are very clear regulations against EU law, against both the country's commitments to the European Union and against the children who have taken these diplomas. Of course, you are doing the incomprehensible thing the Minister said earlier about another provision with the TEIs. You decide, because that's how you woke up one day, to do all the TEIs. I am not telling you, for some of them we could consider and see another future, another perspective. But all this is not because Mr Gavroglou accepts at the last minute some amendments or because he decides to do some trade with certain departments of universities or TEI. This is based on a number of principles and is mainly based on an evaluation. What's the evaluation? How does this thing go? A major change in leg education. You decide we need geoponets and engineers. Yes, sir. We need unemployed farmers and unemployed engineers, without, of course, regulating the professional rights of the children you are trying to make fun of, of the people who are and will enter today's TEIs. It's an arrangement that's the picture of demagogy. It's things that go beyond imagination. I wonder, how do you Members of the House not correct your voice, say'stop' to Mr Gavroglou? These are things that will accompany you in the next few years. They are extremes that have no precedent in the modern Greek history of education. Of course, it would be worth voting against this bill only - I say - for the provision you bring about for the International University. It's a setup, a university, of the Karamanlis government, a truly innovative university to attract students from the Balkans from the wider neighborhood of the country. It is a foreign-language university that you decide, for some reason that no one really understands - I suppose you - to merge it with the adjacent TEIs and become a TEI - university that - God and his soul - what identity he will have! What are those things? I mean, if we tell that anywhere abroad, they'll think it's jokes. You take an International University and merge it with the TEIs. What does TEI have to do with the subject of the International University and vice versa?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u414	If you're kind, Mr. Hatzidakis, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u415	And one of SYRIZA's colleagues does not get up at least that's what we should not do! Look, we have nothing to gain from what we're telling you. We submit them as Greek citizens. After all, the world is in front of you and anyway, whatever practices "Blackyalou" and, if you do so, it is clear that you lose them and look at losing them decently. The New Democracy, I want to say, is not bound by the feats you are trying to create. The regulations which can be repealed will be repealed. We have our schedule. We will not apply Mr Gavroglou's plans and ideas. We will implement the New Democracy programme, with the mandate that we will take from the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u416	With a political culture, though. Sixty Members are still waiting to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u417	Good. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u418	Forget your ideas, forget the leveling down that you're trying to create.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u419	You don't change! You're the same, you're the same, you're the same, you're the same, Inadmissible!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u420	Know that education in Greece, after the elections, Mr. Mumulides, will proceed on the basis of autonomy in schools and universities, with the aim of evaluating, in the light of democracy, the effort. You belong to the past! You'll find out in two months! Sadly, you have decided to lose out of your mind!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u421	Mrs Karasarlidou, Imathia MP, has the floor. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Don't raise a matter for now, please. There's a tolerance. Mrs Karasardou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u422	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the submission of this draft law, I would like to take note of this step forward in the proposal that I have tabled for a long time to the Ministry and, of course, I have discussed several times with the Minister, and I will concentrate only on this topic in order to get the time to me. My proposal concerns the establishment and operation of an Aristotle Studies Institute, an Institute within the International University, in the Naoussa region, where two prominent, two important personalities, Aristotle and Alexander met in antiquity. In the Naoussa of the prefecture of Imathia is the ancient Miesa, as Homeros said one of the most important cities of Eraten Imathia, a city between the capital of Macedonian, then, a kingdom, Pella and the royal necropolis of the Aeges in Vergina. In this area there are impressive findings of Macedonia's ancient heritage, such as the Macedonian graves of the Crisis, Anthemia, Kinch, Lysonos and Callileus, and the Ancient Theatre of Miza. In this town, Miza, there is the place where Aristotle, this great Greek philosopher, taught the teenager then Alexander. In this place, a place of special natural beauty, this great philosopher smelled and trained the Macedonian king in his aristotle philosophy, in teaching and thought. It is known to all of us how decisive the teaching of Aristotle was in the formation of Alexander's personality and in the spread of the Greek spirit to mankind after his conquests. The possibility of taking advantage of this unique area in order to create an institution within the framework of the International University which can teach aristotle philosophy in another language is considered to be extremely important. The prospect of young scientists from all over the world teaching the aristotle thought in the same place where this great philosopher taught young Alexander, we consider it unique and necessary. The recording, study and research of aristocratic work in its time-consuming dimension are sure to attract the interest of the global scientific community. The possibility of working together with this proposed institute with university institutions, both within our country and abroad, makes its research work important, while exploiting the uniqueness of this area. This institute can operate in the area of Naoussa, where there are all the necessary infrastructures, such as the property Logos - Turpalis, where until recently part of the University of Macedonia was housed and which is located at a distance from the School of Aristotle, as well as modern spaces, modern facilities of the cultural centre of this school just across from this historical archaeological site. That's us, Minister, who highlights the history of Macedonia. We are the ones who exploit the comparative advantages of Macedonian land, ancient Greek philosophy, history and our cultural heritage. In addition, the operation of such a research institute, which will undoubtedly, as I said before, bring the interest of the global scientific community, will have a multitude of contribution to the development of the region, highlighting its comparative historical advantages, but also its other comparative advantages, giving strong impetus to economic development with a holistic exploitation of its potential, as is seen in several successful examples in other European regions. We believe that our proposal is in line with national policy, which takes serious account of decentralisation and regional development, as does the bill itself. In conclusion, I would like to stress again, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that accepting my request on the one hand contributes to the recovery and development of the region, on the other hand, meets the necessary sense of responsibility both in science and in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u423	Thank you Mrs Karasarlidou, SYRIZA's MP. Mr Ioannis Sifakis, MP Pella of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u424	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law concludes a substantial educational reform, which our government has carried out over decades - let me say - since the previous reform, for many in-depth educational reforms have passed in this country, many of which have, instead of confronting the real problems of education, created more. This is a reform that comes after three years of exhaustive dialogue between the Ministry and the educational community and society. It concerns both tertiary education and the status of tertiary education and the introduction to tertiary education. The main axes of the new architecture of the educational system are the establishment in higher education of new departments with new cognitive objects and synergies between the IOIs and the TEIs. In this bill, a large university is founded, the International University of Greece based in Thessaloniki, with mergers of many institutions and with reasonable extroversion and with the foreign language departments operating within it. The University of Western Macedonia is also supported, the operation of university research centres and institutes and the operation of two-year university programs for PES graduates leading to a professional qualification "Level 5", without other procedures for graduates. Universities may be established and decentralised and also related to the economic activities of the place in which they are established, ensuring not only the practical exercise of the student, but also largely the support of their professional rehabilitation to local enterprises and actions. Furthermore, the bill recognizes a reality that no one can dispute, that for decades in which there has been no education in high school, the dismissal has been degraded and at universities the student has been competing mainly on the basis of education or special courses. This has clearly been undermining the public school for many years. Recognising this reality, namely that the third grade is a transitional situation between the essential lyrics studies and universities and, consequently, measures to reduce the number of courses, strengthen school hours in the courses to be examined by the seniors for their entry to universities, calculate from the following year the degree of the dismissal for admission to universities, are clearly acts of rationalisation of the system and upgrading of public education. Moreover, the possibility for high school seniors to choose some university schools where they will be introduced with the degree of graduation, will in particular help children of popular families and children with more learning difficulties to have access to university education. Still addressing the question of the professional rights of graduates of four years of higher education with academic criteria and involving the educational community itself, solves an issue of over thirty-five years that the previous governments obviously did not touch after pressure from specific lobbys. I remember this debate and the complaint from the students of the TEI since I personally studied at the National Technical University in the early 1980s. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the establishment of new university departments, I would like to welcome the Minister's decision to accept a parliamentary amendment tabled by the Members of SYRIZA Pella for the establishment at Edessa University School of Music within the International University of Greece, restoring the university in Pella after the closure with the "ATHENA" project of the unique marketing school that operated in the framework of the University of Macedonia by 2013. New Democracy and PASOK in 2013 closed down the only university school that operated in Pella. The responsibility of the government parties in 2013, as well as of their representatives in Parliament at the time - some of whom are present in the central political scene today - is given, and cannot be easily forgotten by the Essen and the Pella residents as a whole who were particularly affected by this development. They felt that they were underestimated, that they lost something that was rightfully owned by them, as this school was first established in Edessa, and the evolution of this school is well known. With the catastrophic "ATHENA" project it was incorporated into the School of Business Administration of the University of Macedonia and was essentially degenerated, as the dean of the University of Macedonia confirmed recently. SYRIZA today restores this injustice by setting up the School of Music - but in the perspective, I would also like to believe further support with new schools - so that there can be stability and long-lasting of the university. The support in the course and with other schools is a critical parameter in order to remove the possibility of a repetition of ATHENA destructive projects in the future. Furthermore, both the Minister and the dean of the International University and other university students have expressed their positive opinion on the operation at first instance of three two-tier university programs for graduates of PES in Edessa, Giannitsa and Arida, in which Pella cities operate professionally. This decision will, of course, be taken by the University after the establishment of the International University of Greece of the Centre for Vocational Training. They have already been tabled in consultation between the university, the society, the PSA and us local MPs, proposals for the specialisations for the first two-year programmes, which are directly related to the needs of the productive reconstruction of Pella, with the activities on which its economy is based and with branches of companies that need to employ more skilled personnel. Furthermore, the establishment of decentralised structures of two university programmes can also help in general the development of provincial cities that could otherwise have any connection with the universities of the country. The operation at the ETHIA in Paralimium Giannitsa, in the first phase, in Giannitsa the specificity of animal or plant production or dairying or cheese, in conjunction with the unique Institute of ETHIEGE in the Paralimium of Giannitsa, with eleven researchers of animal production and specific areas of parcels and numbers of animals that could combine studies with practical education and research, as well as the establishment at the Master of speciality related to health tourism and bath therapy near Loutra Pozar and Skydra related to logistics, given the strong processing of fruit in the area that has significant export orientation, are thoughts that their implementation will help their own projects to be resilient, as well as the local economy and production reconstruction of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr. Sifakis. Mr Andreas Koutsoubas, Member of the Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u426	Mr President, thank you. I'll start with a consensual position, with an acceptance. It is true that every reform - and we must accept it all - has its reactions when it comes from any government. But what does the government have to try? It should mitigate these reactions and look to obtain any attempt to legislate the minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum of consensus. So let me tell you, by transferring the views of the younger generation, that you have not tried this. Today, in the way in which we legislate, the procedure, an answer is given to a question that is tormenting the younger generation, but also to the whole world, for why we are legislating wrongly, why we are not legislating properly: why we are legislating with caution and why we are legislating, as Mr Mavroy said earlier, with the thought of the polls rather than the new generation. Could it be different? Sure. Are there any problems in education? Sure. Couldn't we find a minimum of consensus, correct the bad texts and give a bill to the younger generation that will lead the place to a better future? Another answer is given with today's effort: the words lose their meaning, their essential content, as to what it means 'upgrade' and what it means'reform'. There is a confusion between degradation, levelling and - if you like - the abolition of everything. That's what's happening today. And we obviously need to look at the vocabulary, to see what really 'upgrade' means, which you say that is done, and what'reform' means, which you want to do. The third is this. There is an answer at the same time to how we legislate. It is parliamentary democracy, of course, always the majority. Sustained. But let me tell you - and it is not my position today to blame you, I have also told previous governments and our own - that, unfortunately, our parliamentary system, our parliamentary democracy - which is the best civilization, there is no other civilization - has come to be a ministerial parliamentary democracy, because the Minister brings the law and we, you, the majority of us are trying to change something. We do not legislate on the Members, we simply intervene, to make it clear. From there on, there are reactions to the bill. Our rapporteur and colleagues have analysed them in detail. I am telling you, Minister, because I happen to be a parent of a child who is in education and a student, who is also associated with young pupils of 15 and 16, but also with young people of over 20 years of age, that there is a confusion, there is - if you like - a concern among young children about what is going to happen. That is why we are all responsible for this. Because you, stuck in ideas and prejudices, do not accept anything commonly accepted, that the issue of education is a national issue and there must be consensus, but you want to legislate in the light of the forthcoming elections and you legislate in this way. For example, for the pan-Hellenic exams, you promised and said. I won't stand on this much. There have been reactions from engineers. From my region, I bring reactions from young engineers for this levelling. I don't want to get into any other issues. I'll stay longer, 'cause I've promised the new kids, the students. I also had a doubt as to whether the Legal Party does a good job. I'm a graduate of the Athens Law School. And when my son went in there and I joined with many children, I had a doubt, if this institution, the Komotini Law School, can offer. I inform you that I often feel inferior to the areas of action they have, scientific knowledge and - if you like - the concerns about the future and the successes in schools. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I will end, Mr President, by saying no more about the bill. I have to tell you three phrases - because they have also sent you their resolutions - which send them to everyone, to you and to us. The first letter is entitled "to the deaf government officials and the Greek Parliament". Listen to what the students of law say, that here - I put everyone here, so that I don't get misunderstood - we decide and order that we have come up with an improper bargain for where we're going to do schools. We follow the old doctrine of April 21st: "Every city and stadium, every village and gym". Here we have every city and university, every village and department. That's what we're doing. And they continue: "This is about the election and the opportunistic dimension of this political decision" - they say it, the students say it, watch out for words - "he still finds us completely opposite. Intransigence and government arrogance have their limits. The Aristotle Law of Thrace already feels its academic and scientific shrinkage should come." And they ask you: “Who forces it to become another law firm? What necessity and feasibility? Do we need more lawyers? And should we not forget that the legal Komotini, the establishment there in Thrace of this university, has another importance, geographical, national". And they continue to say that you as government are diligently ignoring the voices of the academic and legal community. And, of course, I will conclude with the resolution of the Assembly of the Legal School of Thrace, of the entire Democrat University of Thrace, with the following: 'Repeats total opposition to the establishment of a new fourth legal School, which agrees with all three other legal schools in the country, which conflicts with the saturation of the legal professions and the serious social problem of the unemployment of young graduates of the legal sections, who are personally suffering the consequences of the State's weaknesses of designing legal studies in accordance with the needs of society and on the other hand, with the imposed and ongoing dramatic reduction of funding for higher education, resulting in serious operational deficiencies, significant infrastructure shortages and the reduction of legal and administrative staff of the existing legal departments of the country'. Ladies and gentlemen, they also say that the establishment of this school is an unjustified and dubious choice of feasibility. I put these in your mind. And I close, not only as a member of the Opposition Parliament, by transferring the New Democracy's view, but also as a father, with one last appeal - if you will - withdrew the bill. Let us see what the bad texts are - because there are bad texts in education, higher education - and together find a common minimum agreement, resolve them and decide on the younger generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u427	Thank you, Mr Andreas Koutsoubas, MP of the New Democracy. Mr Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Lakonia of the New Republic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u428	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to point out - in addition to the various problems of the process since the morning - that the Minister is not here for some time now, who has had the legislative initiative, has called for us to be placed as parties, as groups and as MPs for this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u429	Here it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u430	The State Secretary, Mr Phile, is present, but as far as we know, the legislative initiative is taken by the ministers and not by the State Secretarys. So I am elementaryly aware of... Now, as far as I can see, the Minister is coming and I'm glad. He conspired. Minister, we invited you to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u431	We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u432	Thank you very much. I am not going to talk about the whole process. After all, many of the issues of the bill have been addressed by both our rapporteur and the Vice-President of the party, but also by all the colleagues of all the wings, not only in New Democracy. In fact, I had a fine impression earlier made by my colleague from Naoussa, Mrs Karasarlidou, who asked for a School of Aristotle Studies in her homeland. I think he's a Nausea congressman. You realize that all these issues make up an explosive atmosphere. In fact, it becomes more explosive when it comes to Greek education, the issues of our education, which are particularly hot and serious during these periods, issues which make Greek youth particularly "swipe" more in front of us politicians, with all that we are dealing with. And I come to what concerns me and will concern me in my speech on Article 46 and the famous architecture, as the Minister claims, for the Greek universities and especially for the universities of the Greek region. So Article 46, on three lines, transfers Sparta’s Nursing School from Sparta to Tripoli with three lines, without any specific documentation, without dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, and there is nothing to justify this movement. It's like we have cartons in a transport company and we're transferring a school from one town to another. The Minister spoke of dialogue. What dialogue have you had, Minister? I am not talking about those who you consider incompetent or unacceptable to discuss, that is, the institutional representatives, the MPs, the local authorities, all those who represent the world of the regions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u433	But you came to my office.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u434	Thank you for interrupting me. I was expecting you to interrupt to answer. We came to your office six months after we asked for a date. In fact, while we were asking for an agonizing appointment to have an elementary debate, which we had in your office about a week ago, you invited us and we came after it had already been announced online that on Monday - Friday you invited us - you will meet colleagues from Tripoli with the intervention of the government and now minister in Laconia. There was no dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, which would justify both academically and scientifically the reasons the Nursing School is being transferred from Sparta to Tripoli. The dean in the committee we were involved in, he told us at first, leaving it nebulously - the teachers have this - and then, more seriously, pressuring that there is a problem with Sparta's nursery. I asked him what the problem, Mr. Dean, is that you have in Sparta Nursing. I can't tell you, answer, there's a problem. By pressing a little more, Mr. Dean said we don't have any clinical training. Students based on evaluations need clinical education and the existing hospital in Sparta cannot provide appropriate clinical training to students in nursing. And we have, said Mr. Dean, and the suggestions made by the governors of the two hospitals, both Sparta and Tripoli, who are saying "we are unable" and who do not say that "here can be clinical education". The question is this. And I would like, Minister, to present these suggestions, which are obviously written. I don't think this was happening with a simple phone call. These suggestions must be submitted, see who's telling the truth and who's lying. Is it really the transfer of Sparta Nursing School the only solution? Clearly not, because according to the text of the external evaluation, which is constantly invoked by those who want to transfer December 2013,... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Just a few more minutes, Mr President. The text states on page 24 that university choices include the stay of the Nursing Department in Sparta and the reorganization of clinical education with synergy and other nursing units. Have you made a budget, Minister, on the cost of this transfer? Because, as far as I know, the transport of students, if possible, which is now being carried for clinical education, does EUR 6 000 per year. How much will transport in new places, in new structures? Estimates of the new assessment, this transfer is 70 to 80 thousand euros in rent. Is it certain in Tripoli that better clinical training is provided to students at the Nursing School? No answer. I only know that Tripoli's ITH has three beds, mental health has huge problems with the Tripolis psychiatric hospital, and in any case these children who carry them from a private university, a modern university, a university which has clinical education and can do clinical education better and on the basis of the apparent large-scale donation of the “Niarch” Foundation at Sparta Hospital, we get them and get them as cardboard boxes in Tripoli. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening is unprecedented. And it is unprecedented because the government invokes an evaluation committee whose members are like phantoms, we have not seen them anywhere. There are problems with regard to clinical education, but there is, in fact, no problem with clinical education. There are purposes, there are lies, there are truths. I am presenting the official press release, which came out some time ago, where there are proposals from both the Government MP and Mr Gavroglou to support and upgrade the Nursing School in Sparta. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Davakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are unacceptable, and even from people who call for moral advantages, they call on matters which have to do with the truth, the Left and all that we see today by means of amendments to introduce the evil sections, schools, research institutes and what you can imagine. In fact, I have already heard from my fellow Minister for Rural Development that a Institute for Wine and Beekeeping will be set up if I am not mistaken, and you, Mr Minister, have come to say, well, we will do so, but the schools must first ask for it. In other words, you're ahead of the schools as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u435	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u436	This is all unacceptable. They show that we are going far behind and to legislate and to all that the Greek people are seeing today and that you are unreliable. I want again, Mr. Minister, to tell me why you're moving the nursery from Sparta to Tripoli. Inside you do you believe that what some academic teachers say is correct? We also have our own experience, because we studied at a provincial university in Komotini, which was the volunteer for university movement in Athens. Do you have in you and as a university teacher solid the view that Nursing should be moved from Sparta, when is there no substantial justification for this famous clinical education?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u437	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u438	I'm closing, Mr. President, thank you. In fact, at a time when we say that the last euro is worthwhile, when we see various complaints by colleagues from government MPs growing left and right in their constituencies, different departments, schools, some time before the election period? I'm so sorry. I am sure that the upcoming New Democracy Government will be taking a serious look at the issue of the School of Nursing in Sparta, because it is both a reproach for your government and for you personally in terms of this political choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u439	Thank you, Mr. Davaki. We're on our way to SYRIZA Congressman Christos Beyala. Come on, Mr. Beala.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u440	Mr President, may I have the floor for thirty seconds, literally? I would just like to make one clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u441	Mr. Beyala, wait a minute. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u442	I think one should take into account the unanimous decision of the professors of the Department of Nursing and the students on this move, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u443	It was not unanimous, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u444	Well, if she wasn't unanimous, she was with a huge majority. Excuse me. So we need to take into account the huge majority decision by the teachers and students for this movement, which invoke academic grounds. That's nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u445	Tell them. They should come and testify here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u446	Mr. Beyala, get started, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u447	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing the Ministry of Education bill, which completes a reform of higher education. Many questions arise from the standpoint of counterpopulation. I wonder, at the end of the day, whether this bill corrects some bad texts within the framework of a targeted political direction of strengthening the public university or their question is that we really shouldn't have done anything, left these poor texts of the previous reform made by the Samara - Venizelos government and lead higher education where they wanted to lead it? Where did they want to drive her? Because the issues are also raised politically but also toxicly, what is the New Democracy view? Private universities, which means that we are trying as a policy in this direction to degrade public universities to strengthen and give food and also to private universities. But nonetheless, one of us is told that, the other is told differently. In other words, we are told that this bill, the upcoming government in New Democracy, is going to abolish it. On the one hand, it will abolish it, on the other hand, it raises issues, such as the previous colleague, that the New Democracy will come and fix it again. What's he gonna make? This section, which is now theoretically taken from one region by the government and brought it to another. I have heard the rapporteur from the New Democracy, who has given us the message that this bill is at risk, says, and I have just noted it, that the Greek universities will lose the prestige they have acquired in recent years worldwide. But here we have been having this debate all these years, as well as the debate, if you like, of the Revision of the Constitution, which were shooting at us because we do not want private universities. We, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, want a serious public university, because we believe in the public nature of education and not in the commercialisation that you believe in. Because the public university comes and is supported in western Macedonia, in central Macedonia, in Thrace and in all outermost regions. The private university you want would never have come to western Macedonia and would never have made divisions in Grevenna. There has also been a view that we should see a minimum of consensus. Which way? Is the support of the public university or the creation of private schools? There's the thing about us. In 2013 you closed schools. The Western Macedonia TEI, the Department of TEIs in Grevenna, had three departments and operated the two. He had three sections, in 2013 you lowered it and made them one section in the direction and aiming to close this one. Today the bill comes and creates three university departments, upgrading the Department of Business and Business Administration to a university, creating the Statistical and Insurance Science Department and the Marketing Department, at the same time doing within the framework of the University Research Centre, the Sustainable Development and Management Research Centre and, of course, strengthening the Departments of the University of Grevenes with the two-year curriculum. Ladies and gentlemen, from a Grevena TEI that led it to dismantling, without LPI members, with a wonderful building, very modern, we do three university education departments. You are now saying that when you are elected, if you are elected, you will abolish it. You must answer, fellow Members. So, you're gonna bring back a TEI department in Grevenna? Will you abolish the University of Western Macedonia or do TEIs and university in the form that exists today? Do you want this training? Tell the citizens clearly that you will abolish it. Why do you say it with half the horses? Will you bring us back where? That's the point. It is not just a question of saying that we do not like that, you have to say what you want to do and what you want to do. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. Organized you discredit the Greek university. And you discredit it in all ways. Let us think, ladies and gentlemen, that the Chief of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, said the other day that Greek universities are making molotovs. Eight Greek universities are at the top of the world and in all international competitions the Greek universities are leading, ladies and gentlemen. These are not universities that are messy, as you say, but they are universities of knowledge. These universities are taking out these people with this education, which are also being sought in foreign universities and in developed European countries where, having the title of the Greek universities, all these scientists become unharmed for any job. This university, with this bill, we want to strengthen it even more, as well as its public character, and give it even greater weight, because we want Greek children to be able to study all and not only those who have economic soundness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u448	Thank you, Mr. Christos Beyala, SYRIZA MP. Mrs Liberaki, Independent MEP, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u449	Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that my first speech after 2015 is on education issues. I will start by saying that as far as I remember my own constant demand for the Left was the right to education, the removal of class and other barriers to knowledge and the general perception of education as a self-worth, as a self-evident purpose, as an end. The Left and all the others who supported the importance of education were right. As every economist in any part of the world could very easily certify, the relationship between personal prosperity and the level of education has been and is overwhelming so far, to the extent that when we do not have personal income data we use as an approach to the level of education and that leads us precisely to the correct economic stratification. But what I want to say is that, in discussing today and looking at tomorrow, we have to recognise that this very long, strong relationship between the qualifications of study and the well-being of people is in great doubt. Standard qualifications, diplomas, papers, symbolically certified knowledge, wrapping, if you wish, of the educational system is subject to a terrible pressure and it is like emptied from its essential content. This is because it accepts the pressure of two huge subversive forces. The first power to overturn data is technology with artificial intelligence which, for the first time, replaces jobs in areas protected up to now, namely services in the free professions. If a pressure comes from technology, the second subversive pressure comes from globalisation, not so much with artificial intelligence, but with remote intelligence, that is, from the fact that a man who has real knowledge can provide his services anywhere in the world without even knowing the language and without even having to travel. This phenomenon, the synapse of technological and globalised effects is called "globotics", which emerges from globalization and robotics. And it really seems that this opens up some terrible twisted winds on labour markets everywhere. The impression is that for the initiators of this law we are debating today in this House, it seems that people have stopped at a previous stand, that is at a time when you could predict about the typical skills and the essentials you needed, you could design them, improve them and run them for several years ahead. It was a time when formal qualifications ensured the people who possessed it. Honestly, I think the government thinks that he is curing inequality and insecurity by expanding the circle of right-wing university degrees. In fact, he makes a huge, spacious elevator, puts inside students and students of the TEIs, their teachers and teachers, the administrative staff, their relatives and he says: “There is only one button. It says 'university'. You will climb a floor". And that would be fine ruptured or settled or, as you well want, a great force against insecurity and inequality if the wheelchair did not have any unwanted side effects. As this elevator rises on a floor, the counterweight lowers the building of higher education in the fourth basement. And I do not want to make it dramatic, because the reality is that it can, with the best intentions, lead to a situation where it does not protect those who it thinks it is protecting. At the same time, however, it puts a huge tax, a burden on those who really try, they really could succeed, but it keeps them back. It's an inflation of generalization of degrees that only good for the coroners if we continue to frame them. We have one, two, three, forty two degrees. I would like to make two very brief comments. I definitely want to say something positive about the bill. That's the emphasis he puts on high school. Of course, there are many sides. I don't want to develop them. We could start this conversation a little earlier than high school. Because in order for high school to work, you must have good infrastructure and support beforehand. But I think that's very healthy. But what I want to say for the last time is that I see today, in 2019, a case behind the bill that children and young people are indigenous, native and that everyone knows very well Greek. I would like to say to you that it is not even the case today and much less, it will not be the case in the future. We need to devise in good intentions Fast track procedures for the smooth landing of people in a mood, with dreams, with desires that really have all the backgrounds to succeed and overcome what we considered to be self-evident. People are changing. And good intentions must make us change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u450	Thank you, Mrs. Antigone Lyberakis, Independent Bulgarian. Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, Member of the European Parliament, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u451	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that today is a long Monday and the House is invited by tomorrow to vote through express procedures, one month before the European elections, a bill that brings up - down to - in the field of higher education and secondary education, I think that proves in the most dissatisfactionful way how unsatisfactory, sloppy and balloting your policy is and in the sensitive area of education, unfortunately. We have heard the Minister tell the committee that this text of a thousand hundred and twenty-six articles is the result of a two and a half-year dialogue. Two-and-a-half years and you brought it to the House at literally midnight? Thousands and a hundred and twenty pages to be discussed in committee - and at the same time, when Parliament debated the very important issue of German allowances? And you come today and you have the courage to iron the National Representation and tell us that you will send us assistants to read it? Could you, Minister, also send us the speeches you might wish to speak here from the Step of the House? At the same time, when you are talking about dialogue, you are actually showing that all you want, unfortunately, is to impose your own opinion. Because it was truly sad to see the Minister's image on the committee, which was siding the dean of the Metsovian Polytechnic, saying that "here we are doing no arithmetic". He ignores the Minister's view that the main feature of education is the incorporation of respect for the teacher in the broad sense, and most of all in a dean. Of course, the irony and authoritarianism of Mr Gavroglou are not, unfortunately, new. With grief we remember in Serres and in Central Macedonia your camels, when in July 2018 you "licensed", literally, the conclusion of the committee, two TEIs and the International Monetary Fund, which you put them to consult with President-in-Office of your Secretary-General, flying at the last minute in the basket of unusable ones. On what grounds did you do that? No one, of course. But with the political blackmail of the participation of Alexandria TEI Thessaloniki in the second round of negotiations, which, of course, had, at first, refused to participate in the consultation. Such respect is shown to the "everything free academic consultation", such respect for parliamentary scrutiny, which, since 17 July 2018, the Minister has been not responding to my relevant question, which I am presenting in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you're coming today to finish with a rapist, with a vengeance of what's left up in our educational system. The dean of Metsovio himself accuses you of artificial 'university', which will downgrade all diplomas. Why? Because, through the provisions of the bill, you are going in the wrong direction and in the wrong direction to reorder the academic map of the country and to abolish the latest TEIs, throwing the charismatic shot at technological education. At a time when, throughout Europe, the technological sector is being upgraded and strengthened, you are going to abolish it. Such left-hand progress on SYRIZA! Parts are closing. Many more sections are founded. We've got mergers and naughty distribution at universities. All this, however, without a plan, without academic criteria, indifferent to the needs of the labour market, to the professional rights of graduates and, of course, to their rehabilitation. An exclusive, strategic objective of the bill, of course, is the vote, "closing the eye" to students and teachers, who, in their name, are upgraded to another crescendo of populism and small-party games with local communities. I shall refer to the Serres and the wider region of Macedonia. Go ahead and remove the TEIs of central Macedonia, eastern Macedonia and Thrace and Thessaloniki, absorbing them from the International University of Greece. Three higher levels of technology are merged with the country's only higher higher higher education institution, which provides exclusively postgraduate programmes and exclusively in foreign languages. Obviously, you know, Mr Minister - Mr Stamos told the audience that there is a lack of academic and administrative staff at the International University of Greece, that there are only seven members of the board at the moment and you are coming to this university to absorb three leading technological institutions in the country with close to 40 000 students and international recognition. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, with your tolerance I will need two minutes. With what road map? Because in addition to the current interests of the academic community, the interest and perspective of students should be guaranteed. And I am anxiously awaiting the placement of the competent authorities for a country that will be filled with multi-technical and economic schools and also explanations in the local society of tomorrow's survival. At the same time, I did not hear, of course, about the anxiety expressed by the dean of the Central Macedonia TEI for paragraph 5 of Article 8, where the five-year time-limit in the regional TEIs of the members disappears with what this implies for deforestation of the TEIs. Kouventa, however, is not the case for administrative officials who can be transferred to another city of work without their request, contrary to what you planned for the Epirus TEI. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But the bill does not just dismantle technological education. He drugizes high school by strengthening the logic of depreciation and completion. Two years now, whenever you and the Prime Minister were in political difficulties, you and the Greek Prime Minister yourself have made announcements to abolish the pan-Hellenic examinations. For two years you have upset everyone and played the educational community together. Result? Return to the past of ties, but with very aristocratic idealism and isotopeism. You have reached the point where you categorize schools, on the one hand the reds, who have increased prestige and which will require tests for admission to them, and on the other hand, the greens, the deported, in which children will enter without examinations and the children will be placed in the gamblers' place. From High School II they will be invited to guess about green and red schools, instead of investing in preparation, knowledge, effort. An incomprehensible lottery, a roulette of SYRIZA in the intestines of education, a jojo residue of your former co-pilot, Mr. Kammenos. At the same time, you also lead to a two-speed dismissal, since without the guarantees of the Bank for the uniform degree of difficulty in the examination of the dismissal, they will, in fact, enter issues of different speeds of difficulty, against the equivalency of the system. Of course, the spirit of pursuit in classical studies, in ancient Greek, in Latin, which you consider to be a dead language, improperly unsuccessful by the SYRIZA Government. But for you, unfortunately, only the logic of the minor effort and your sympathy for excellence. This is demonstrated once again by the provisions of the law concerning, unfortunately, standards and experimental schools. You are effectively abolishing them in the same way as the rest of the public education schools, of course with a candle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u452	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u453	I'm done, Mr. President. Lotteries everywhere, in the standards, in the green and red schools, in the primary schools for the selection of the importants. Balancedness and refusal of reward, effort and effort, which must be rewarded to promote society, a society that has reached financially, appreciably and morally, but a society that will very soon resist you with your resounding disapproval of the polls. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mrs. Lighten Arabaji. Mr Andreas Katsaniotis has the floor. Mr. Katsaniotis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u455	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today is still a distinctive bill of the present government. It's a merchandise product, based on lies, by an untrustworthy minister. Unreliable Minister, why? He tells us he respects university institutions. Instead, he's attacking anyone who disagrees with him. Anybody who dares to take the opposite view is indisputable. The dean of the Open University of Patras, unbelievable the dean of the Polytechnic School of Patras, unbelievable the dean of the National Technical University and soon unbelievable all the members of the Concert of the University of Patras and the Peloponnese who do not agree with his plan. Our reader only came out, Mr. Gabroglou. Let us remember a little what the reader told us a while ago. In my timely question on 22 February, Mr. Gavroglou said: "We propose the establishment of a second university in Patras. At this university, the structure of the NSA will go as it is and will have traditional divisions. This structure of the ESDP will be able to be upgraded, not only through synergies, but also through the possibilities of a much larger university. That is the logic. I am tabling the Minutes of this House from this timely question. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Andreas Katsaniotis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Steenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Two days later, Mr. Gavroglou reiterated in an interview with the newspaper "Peloponnese", on Sunday, February 25, exactly the same stuff. It didn't change a word. I am also presenting the newspaper 'Pleonnes' in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Four days ago in the Committee on Morphics said: "The association of the TEI of Western Greece with the Open University has never been discussed." He said we were lying. I'm putting down what he said four days ago. It is the minutes of the committee that said that it has never been discussed by the same or a merge of a piece of TEI of Western Greece with the Open University of Patras! Fake News then said about whoever was saying things that the Minister didn't agree, Fake Universities creates. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Andreas Katsaniotis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Steenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Now, let's see how the Minister acted at the TEI of Western Greece. The TEI of Western Greece would initially merge with the University of Patras, then with the Open University, then again with the University of Patras, then with the University of Peloponnese. It's cut in half today. Half goes to the University of Patras and half goes to the University of Peloponnese. "My garments were disembodied", as Mr. Friends would have glorified these days. Repeal of technological education. We deny your bill, Mr. Gavroglou, because it's a monument of clandestineness. After confronting the TEI as a poor relative, taking one walk to EAP, one at the University of Patras and finally cutting it off at two, since you slandered it without respecting students, graduates, teachers, staff, because it was supposedly low, now you're shutting down. On the contrary, in Crete, TEI is transformed into a Mediterranean university. It seems that local bodies have negotiated harder and better. In Patras and Western Greece, however, TEI is abolished. Now let's see what the University of Patras says. The draft law proposed was rejected by the vast majority of departments, twenty-four, by the Association of Members, by the Association of Administrative Staff, by the Association of Students and by the Senate of the University of Patras on 19 March. The University Senate in a new, extraordinary session on April 8 again rejected, with a strong two-thirds majority, your so-called new proposals. Unfortunately, the Minister of Education ignored the decisions of the collective bodies and arbitrarily converted the 'OXI' into 'NAI'. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need the two minutes extra time you give everyone. On the other hand, SYRIZA's local parliamentarians are moving as other agents, feeding to small societies. They have come and seen you, Minister, along with the mayor of Egypt and you have committed yourself that the amendment will come through which the portion of the optics will remain in the new part that is being created. They have brought an amendment, and unfortunately you have lied again about local societies. Lies again, just lies! Ladies and gentlemen, we support free education, not state education. We support public education. And our difference between public and state is huge. In public education, each child has the opportunity to study what he wants and reach up, regardless of his home place and the financial potential of his family. Public education achieves social mobility. The good can be better, and the best one becomes excellent. A child from the last village of Achaia can act on his dreams of study and professional rehabilitation, aiming at the top, in excellence. On the contrary, your state education levels everything and everyone down. You can't stand the progress. You don't want personal elevation through hard work. Besides, excellence is a relic. In your world standard is Karanikas, one who can come through his party growth to become a Prime Minister's advisor, who sees enough Menegaki. In my own world of heroes and the one I represent is George Panayotakopoulos. You don't know him. He's the man who first entered the university in 1989. He's the man who ended a scholarship at the University of Patras in Medicine. He is a graduate of public school, the 3rd High School of Patras, the son of an instructor and a civil servant, who finished his postgraduate degree in medicine in Athens, who went to a scholarship in London and became a professor of medicine, who returned to Greece of the crisis and is now a professor in Greece. He's the one you don't know, but you'd go to him if you were sick and not to Karanika! That's our difference. This is the difference of our two worlds!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u456	Is Karanikas a doctor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u457	He couldn't! What Caranicus represents is the problem, not if he's a doctor. It's the government's difference from the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u458	It is unacceptable to refer personally to absentees. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u459	That's your spirit!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u460	However, this remaining time until the election is not much. Mr Gavroglou's bill will not be implemented. We know that with this kind of bill you are making our work difficult. Maybe that's your target. Leaving you may seek to drug yourself as much as you can in the next government period. What you do not understand is that you will fall into the trap you set up, because the Greeks know you now and have understood you. That is why this bill already meets the great reaction of Greek society. Your story, Mr. Gavroglou, is certainly over and your grade will not be predictable either yours or the government you serve. Good night and the autumn exams.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u461	I call on Elijah Kamaro, MP of the Dodecanese of SYRIZA, to come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u462	Thank you, Mr President. If overrun of time runs into slogans and intelligence, Mr President, something to do. I'll try to be essential. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into any amendments. Some of us have already been accepted by the Minister. We are trying to bring in another one that has to do, Minister, with the rights of those who have received a degree up to the present four-year-old school. Please see it so that we can resolve this matter as well. Those who have so far brought amendments to the bills used to deal with changing the way students were introduced into universities. Minister, those who still write such things are either hypocritical or have not understood that the bill you bring - and it is to your credit - is an intersection. It does not see the introduction to universities alone, but it changes the whole framework of education, which must be done and you are giving the opportunity, as you quite rightly said, to more people, to have access to education, as they have so far not had. But let me dedicate, take my time on a matter that has not entered and entered the bill. It is the lens that I always try to put into every bill through which we see it, the lens of insular politics. You know that we have so far dealt with island policy with too many issues. As you know, the main issues on the islands are education, they are health, they are services, they are development. All of this results from exclusion. The islands are finite spaces, they are enclosed spaces and they want a special policy. On many issues, we started doing a lot of things. On transport, for example, we have started the transport equivalent with very good results, which is evolving and we aim to get it to the point of being universal. We will quickly bring a bill including the categorisation of the islands to help implement any planning, any policy on the islands. For example, there is a proposal made by the Ministry of Health on the issue of health on the islands, how the larger, the cobial islands will serve the smaller ones to solve the problem we have now, where despite the notices, despite the aids, doctors do not go easy, especially in the small islands. But I will concentrate on education, Minister. Remember well when we went together to Agathonisi, a typical example of an island of eighty - six inhabitants. But that's not just the problem. It's on all the small islands that are under three hundred inhabitants. I would say less than a thousand people have these problems of education. You saw two students in kindergarten, one in high school, one in high school, two, if I remember correctly, in high school and we had there - and we do - teachers and teachers for all these kids. But that's not just the problem. The education of these children, the education of these children, the welfare of these children who do not have other children, who do not have other schools, which do not have society that is small, creates a whole lot of other problems. The question of education in the islands must also be seen under another perspective. We need a special policy. As I said before, however, something similar could be done about health, about taking small islands of certain universities, so that they can do seminars, visits, children's calls in the summer, use and students for their practice. Many things can be done within an island policy. But island policy, Minister, is a complex issue. It's a science. It's science to see and try to solve the problems that are created on the islands to remove this blockade. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will be within the time you give everyone, Mr President. We have schools for a variety of topics. We don't have a school for island policy. In the context of what we are discussing and which I have just said so far, it is my opinion - and I think because we have had discussions with academics too - that you need to see it, because it is done, as far as I know, and new departments will also be created at the University of the Aegean. Let us see, then, the creation of a Department of Island Policy. This science is complex because it has to do with spatial planning, it has to do with growth, it has to do with the economy, it has to do with transport and it will give a solution to all the problems we say. For example, the study on transport, which is not an integrated study for full implementation of the transport equivalent, made it by the University of the Aegean. All this could be done through a department. Finally, if you ask me and where we're going to do this department, you know - and you said it, and others said it so far - that the departments have been orchestrated by every minister where they were attracted, where they wanted to have votes. Not always, but most of that happened. So the University of the Aegean has scattered sections in all Aegean islands. Let me stress that Kos, which is the second in population in the southern Aegean, is the third tourist destination, which has the lowest rate of age - pay attention to those who do not know about it, about thirty-six years old, is the average age - and for many other reasons it is entitled to enter the map of the departments, and it must enter the University of Aegean. So, what better such a section of the Island Policy Department, which will be pioneering, will be the only one not only in our country, but also in Europe, and will combine new technologies with science, with other sciences, and will give inspiration and solutions to our island country, our country which is primarily island. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr. Cameroon, MP of the Dodecanese of SYRIZA. Mr Emmanuel Thraniotis, Member of the SYRIZA Lassithi, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u464	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the draft law: "Sciences and T.E.I.A., access to higher education, experimental schools, General Archives of State and other provisions", a draft law that brings substantial changes to the map of education, so that it can meet the current needs and requirements of society. Personally, let me say that I am pleased and happy to create the new university, joy because the TEI of Crete, one of the best in the country on the basis of the evaluations, ranks higher than some Greek universities - seven said the Minister - is upgraded to a university and called the Mediterranean University of Crete. It is a university that, in collaboration with the other institutions of Crete, creates the certainty that through cooperation and also the speech will boost university education, contribute with research and technology to development and productive reconstruction. At the same time, I feel very pleased that at last Lassithi is treated equally and is not the paris, as in so many years, so that it has become a joke, "Cretan has four prefectures, three." I understand that it can cause ironic remarks, such as those of the Parliamentary Representative of Officerial Responsibility during the budget debate in December 2018, when this is where the Step I pointed out this timeless injustice and from his point of view he commented "also whine about Lassithi". It wasn't grumbling, it was a reality that starts to change. I therefore call on them to vote on the bill, not so that I do not whine, but because a fair periodic request from the people of the prefecture for equal and balanced treatment becomes a reality with this bill. This draft law establishes five new schools with the new university, one of which, the School of Administration and Economy, will be based in Agios Nikolaos. The following university departments are also founded: Department of Nutrition and Diplomacy Sciences based in Sitia, which is part of the Department of Health Sciences, Department of Administrative Science and Technology based in Agios Nikolaos, which is part of the School of Management and Economics, Department of Physical Education and Sports, also located in Agios Nikolaos, which is part of the School of Health Sciences, Department of Physics based in Ierapetra, which is part of the School of Health Sciences. As part of the new university, a University Research Centre based in Heraklion and five departments, of which the University Research Centre for Economic Analysis, Entrepreneurship and Tourism will be based in Agios Nikolaos. The research centres aim inter alia at basic and applied research, the use of results, the contribution to the specialisation of young scientists and, in particular, the development of actions in cooperation with local bodies. This draft law addresses issues of the organisation and staffing of the new schools, as well as scientific staff at administrative and financial level. Lassithi has the infrastructure and the will of local society to support the new university. That is at least what experience has shown. The sections that operate, as well as the "ATHENA" project of the Government of Samara - Venizelos, had a positive response both to the preferences of candidates and to the content of study and work. The existing infrastructure can meet the needs of the new departments. Obviously, we also need improvement of infrastructure and above all we need to meet the needs for student care for the home. Student housing concerns all universities and not just newly established students. There are spaces available to create new infrastructure, but also prospects for sustainable development. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The most important thing is that the new sections in the county have direct synergy with each other and concern areas aimed at improving the quality of life. This creates a pole of education and research that meets educational and productive needs that are not covered at the level of Crete until today. It should be stressed that with the operation of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, launched in Naples by the Ministry of Health, there will be strong workshops with the new departments of the School of Health Sciences of Lassithi and in particular the Department of Physics in Ierapetra. There are infrastructures that already host the departments that are operating and which have been allocated to the new university through TEI for the needs of higher education in Sitia and Agios Nikolaos. There are also buildings in Ierapetra that can meet the needs for the Physics Department. Finally, local society has repeatedly demonstrated its willingness to support this effort. Ladies and gentlemen, please excuse me if Lassithi Law and the creation of the new university monopolized my position. However, it is extremely important that this development for my country is justified for a period of time and is completed after a creative process of dialogue with the university community and, above all, with the leadership of the Ministry of Education. So, finally, I would like to express my warm thanks, but also of the people of the county, to the Minister of Education, Kostas Gavroglou, who at the constant pressures, as well as the views of the actors of the prefecture, the mayors, the Regional Government, the Workers' Centre, the Chamber of Lassithi, replied to me as follows: 'It is enough, you do not argue else, I am convinced of the deficit in higher education in Lasithi'. Indeed, a comprehensive and documented proposal was presented in the bill. It was a fair request, and it is done. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Before I close, however, I should like to comment on the positions of officers of the Staff Regulations. It is astonishing that the Qualified Opposition has been carried out in such unacceptable terms as the amendments, the bill against the Minister. Really, can I ask you a question? Do the names of Christoyannis, Tsumanis Stamenitis say anything to you? It is those who have tabled the amendment to rather than one vote to relieve those who have granted the loans to your parties and which you still owe and have not repaid them at the expense of the Greek people. It is not here, however, that Mr Hatzidakis should ask him if Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras behaved in the same way that the Chief of Police Vice-Population behaved to the creators, what you would call him, what would you do. Apparently, you'd call him a cheater, a liar, a populist. I'm not going to make such designations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u465	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u466	But I will refer you - and I will present it in the Minutes - to the post of the excellent music composer Stavros Xararchakou, who says: "Today morning I was told that yesterday's meeting of some of the creators with Kyriakos Mitsotakis was used at a spot to serve his election campaign. I am so sorry."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u467	Please, finish, speak for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u468	And it continues: "For many years now the self-evident, namely the protection of the labors and copyright of authors from the state and justice, has not been applied. I myself have met with Mr Papandreou and Mr Samaras at times with no result, and even this indifference gave me as much suspicion. On the contrary, Mr Tsipras' reaction was instantly...'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u469	Finish it, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u470	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u471	You speak for eight minutes and the normal time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u472	You're cutting me off, Mr. President. Anyway, I'm done. "On the contrary, it was instantly Mr. Tsipras' reaction and I have to say that it was the first time I felt that a Prime Minister really cares about this issue, without going out to the channels to advertise it. Finally, I should like to inform Mr Mitsotakis that we are not asking for any symbolic sums from anyone. Artists are not awkward. We ask for our hard work, we ask for what exists in all civilized countries, we ask that we be able to live from our work, we ask for justice." You know, obviously, who Mr. Xarharakos is. He was a candidate and a Member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u473	The next Member is Mr Tasoulas, Member of the New Democracy. Please: Here you speak nine minutes, and normal time is five minutes. Mr. Tasouula, because you're next, what are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u474	Eight minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u475	Not eight minutes, we'll find it. We'll put the matter in plenary. If everyone...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u476	All Members of the New Democracy spoke for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u477	But we've made a decision for five minutes. Do you want to change the decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u478	We want equal treatment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u479	Yes, equal treatment, but in infinity. Here, Mr. Tasoula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u480	Ladies and gentlemen, there have been various views on education from supporters or critics in this bill. I would like to say that education is something much deeper and much more rooted in time than feeling that we are revolutionizing education and that we can create new data so easily. I will give you an example of how deeply education is in relation to the superficial way political leaderships at times manage it. The Constitution, which we did not change in Article 16, defines the purpose of education and says that education is a key task of the state, which aims at the natural, professional, intellectual and moral conduct of the Greeks, the development of their national and religious conscience and their forming as free and responsible citizens. Be careful to see how deep this is and that it has nothing to do with current political responses. First of all, let us look at the subject of national conscience. Homer so many centuries ago writes that Kalypso, Minister of State, wanted Odysseus as "Ithaca is chosen". Kalypso wanted him to forget Ithaca. Not forget Penelope or Telemachus. To forget his homeland. One of the pioneers, the pioneering Greek literary text, that is, has the same development of national conscience as the Constitution of '75. Teaching is the 'Odyssey' and 'Iliad'. And to go to the issue of undermining the ancient Greeks from the original text - because that is where the charm, Mr. Minister, of the ancient Greeks, in the original, not in the translation - I will say to you: Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, the name 'Calypso' is from the verb 'I', i.e. 'I'm hiding'. She's the one who misled Odysseus for seven years so she wouldn't go home. The charm is in the original. That is why, Minister, and the famous Italian phrase, 'traduttore e traditor', the 'translator' is a traitor. And not only you and us and all the governments of post-population, with rare exceptions, have been treated in education with a demagogic tendency. We compete in demagogy in education, introducing the curse of convenience into an area where convenience has only created problems. Education is the only field where convenience causes damage. Education is not for convenience. Both Latin and ancient Greek and tons and forests and muddy. And all of this, because it's just making it hard, they became unreliable. And we, New Democracy, and you, the Left, and depending on our resistance to explain to the world that education has nothing to do with convenience and we constantly remove difficulties from education and make education a game. It's not a game for education. It is a difficult race, sometimes monks, where the teacher, the teacher, needs to inspire the child to be able to enjoy his charm that Kalypso wanted Odysseus to forget Ithaca. And since I said about the value of certain things that are not today, I will tell you that Article 114, Mr. Phile, the 120, that is, an article of the Constitution, which says that every citizen is obliged to defend democracy against anyone who wishes to approve it, comes from the oath of the Athenian teenager, who in his eighteenth vows, after taking the spear and the shield, and says: "And if he disapproves the institutions, I do not allow them." It's Article 114, but it's been coming from so old. And I'm saying all this to undermine the illusion that we're pioneers. Education has roots, ancient Greeks are useful, the difficulty is the headline and the crown and the meaning of education and you continue a bad post-cultural tradition, making the situation worse in education, giving even more facilities, sharing and sowing schools everywhere and creating new schools without academic criteria, as was quite rightly said. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall come to an issue - and I shall end - which concerns my special homeland and which is a sound omission, which is a sign of all the curiosity of this bill. In Yannina there has been the oldest Greek school, the oldest Zosomia School since 1828. This school today, based on n.4327/2015, is the only one of the five historical school models, which is not linked to a high school, which is not, that is, a single school unit. There is only a High School of Life in Yannina and there is no standard high school, while Varvakeios and Anavrytas and Ionidios in Piraeus and the Evangelical School of Nea Smyrna - the other historical school models - are connected with a high school and constitute a single school unit. I know there are some problems with regard to buildings, with infrastructure, in relation to the teachers of the General High School of Life, but problems between 2015 and 2019, four years now, could have been solved and added to this bill two, three words, which would have been linked by the model of High School of Life, having solved these problems over the years, the housing problems and the employment of teachers of the General School of Life. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close with this proposal, Mr President. So today we have this phenomenon, which is not corrected by this bill. And it is not corrected for a school and for a family of benefactors it has offered - the legacy of Zosimadon - in the city of Ioannina twenty thousand square meters of useful school halls. They've offered us in return, and we don't recognise them the right to have a high school connection. And we do not recognize, in two hundred and sixty children, the constitutional right to follow the course after high school in a standard high school, as all the other children who attend the other historical high schools in the country do. We must therefore solve all this. We must understand all this. We must not regard education as something that we are now starting. Today’s problems of education have been described by Delmuzos in his book since 1944. Since 1944 at the "Problem of the Philosophy School" Alexandros Delmouzos has been talking about the unbearable burden of immobilization, he speaks of the charismatic import arrangements at universities and talks about over-appropriate students, which does not correspond to professional rights. From 1944 to 2019 the same problems, because we dare not resolve the issues and because SYRIZA does not just dare to solve them, but is dramatically exacerbating them. Let me conclude by tabling in the minutes the communication from the Association of Lifelong Learning School in Ioannina denounces the bill on the full leveling of the model schools and the unprecedented injustice against the Lifelong School of Ioannina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u481	Because the bill is classified as urgent, the time for each speaker is five minutes. However, if the plenary wants to take some time, since the last two speakers spoke more than eight minutes - nine in particular - the parliamentary representatives of the parties will have the floor to agree, Mrs Vaki and Mr Javarra, because it is not right...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u482	I have already spoken, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u483	The Rules of Procedure say five minutes. How much time do they have?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u484	We just said with tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u485	The tolerance of how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u486	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u487	Two minutes of tolerance. Because they're talking now for nine minutes, so you understand we have to set a limit. So, five minutes with tolerance, two more, that's up to seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u488	What hours is it, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u489	What did you say, Mr. Friend?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u490	Is the program by 23:00 tonight and tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u491	Yes, but I told you to apply the Rules of Procedure as a matter of fact. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u492	Yeah. Are we going to keep going tomorrow and talk about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u493	Yes, of course. The Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u494	Despite any climate of controversy, I would like to stress what Mr Tassoulas said that education is not easy and to agree on this affluently, how this thing that is not easy will try to convince society as well and be done in ways that do not exclude them. It is, however, a fact which is very difficult to find in this Chamber and I would like to welcome this statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u495	Thank you. We continue with Mr Thivaios, MP of SYRIZA, with the request to respect the decision on five-minute speaking time with a tolerance of two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, Mr President. It is no accident, ladies and gentlemen, that all of the Ministry of Education's bills are under attack. And it is no accident because it is precisely through the issues of education that the prevailing ideological differences between the government and the opposition exist today. In fact, the government today has a goal, the defence of the public school, the upgrading of the public university. The aim of the opposition is on the reverse, to strengthen private education at all levels, at all levels. We have actually heard a number of issues. And what's the tragic here? In the criticism of the University of Western Attica that comes into the bill, we have no place from the Opposition, for the synergies of the universities in Epirus and the Ionian Islands, no proposal, for the synergies of Agronomic Thessaly, Central Greece and the NRP any proposal. They have so far spoken twenty spokesmen of the New Democracy about this bill, but there is no proposal! So they come today and ask what viability studies are for the proposal we are making. Clearly it is much more serious than the zero studies of the "ATHENA" project which led to a worsening level in the Greek universities. We have to make a point. This is where the opposition must respond. Does she want today's TEIs to continue to be institutions that 20% of their graduates will not have professional rights, no luck in postgraduate and no job prospects? This is where we have to answer. Because the synergies, which are carried out with their integration into university institutions, are precisely aimed at upgrading them, with postgraduate and labour rights that day after day are conquered. I want to come to the subject of secondary education. It's supposed to be all these years that high school in its current form is no longer going. They say there's a problem in the Third High School, that there's a need for a critical approach to knowledge. But what are the proposals again? No suggestions. I think the opposition here makes the big mistake not to trust the teacher first. The proposals that come today for secondary education, the way in which the four courses are formulated in the 3rd grade, first of all require confidence in the teacher. The Government of New Democracy 2010-2014 showed its worst face to the teacher. Not only did he fire him, not only did he destroy him, but he did not show, if you like, any willingness to cooperate. They're talking about the thing bank. Honestly, as an instructor, I must tell you that the matter bank is not bad. I would call it 'a booklet'. The issues that my colleagues have raised to their students are much better than those contained in the theme bank. It's a model that didn't offer anything, in my humble opinion. So we come today and are really trying to upgrade secondary education and pave the way for the introduction of pupils. How do you treat all this from the standpoint of counterpopulation? It's like a left-hand idea. Uh, I think that story now has to end. So, from a left-wing ideal we say 'yes' to the HEI synergies - TEIs and TEI integration to university schools with upgraded curricula and the patenting of professional rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute's tolerance, Mr President. So from a left-wing idea, we say 'yes' to a thousand university appointments after ten years. From a left-wing ideal, then, we say 'yes' to the fifteen thousand appointments to secondary and primary education. From a left-hand idea we say 'yes' at the entrance of a large proportion of students without tests. From a left-wing idea, then, we say 'yes' to studying brothers in the same city. We say 'yes' to upgrading vocational education and professional rights. And from a left-wing ideal we try to convince society, we give this struggle daily so that we can truly liberate teenage life and enter dynamically into the dream, life and creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u497	Thank you. And we continue with Mr Stepho, SYRIZA MP. Here, Mr. Stephoe, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u498	Ladies and gentlemen, this bill provides for the new architecture of the University of Western Macedonia, the International University of Greece, the University of Patras, the University of Peloponnese and the Mediterranean University of Crete. And this bill, like the previous ones, concerning partnerships between educational institutions, serves the direction of upgrading the public university, public education and research that will serve the whole society and not the interests of elite and secret groups. They are bills that give a different stigma and send a political signal about what education we want, what a labour market we want and what a society we want. And what we want is to highlight education in this really is a public good that is directed at everyone and serves all, a good in which everyone is rightfully involved and everyone can draw from its benefits, a good that is directed at citizens and not consumers, because knowledge is not a commodity. Knowledge, for us, is not some skills that one will acquire to become a consumable ingredient in an endless process of reproduction of the neoliberal model proposed by the Promoting Opposition. Because in this context, excellence for you is nothing but the domination of private interests, the logic of the market and competition. As we see every day, only excellent people are not those involved with NOVARTIS, offshore, CEDEFOP, parties' maritime loans, SIEMENS, the Stock Exchange and various other scandals. The New Democracy described the bill we are discussing today, Armageddon. It seems to have forgotten the availability of about two and a half thousand teachers of technological education, the underfunding of all school units and universities and of the country's TEI, the climate of intimidation and terrorism experienced by teachers in previous years. He forgot the total impotence of the public education, the confiscation of the Greek teacher, the complete devaluation of the work of the public school. He forgot the schools without books, the Diamantopoulou reform, the punishing evaluation, the "ATHENA" project, the misplaced shifts of teachers from secondary to primary, the evaluation and much more. They are, however, remembered by teachers. Because it was all Armageddon! And if this bill is described as Armageddon it is because it gives a different perspective from the one reserved by the Qualified Opposition for Education. Such Armageddons we need! They need to reverse things because they give different prospects, better prospects, in a world and in a system that was, up to a few years ago, completely degraded and degraded. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government with the education bill established how we want education, research and the teacher. It has given a signal on the priorities for special education, the reception of refugees, aid to vulnerable groups, the upgrading of public education. Four and a half thousand teachers enter the assignment process in the next few days through ASP and another ten thousand five hundred, about, will be appointed by 2021. They will be added five hundred teachers who were justified by the 2008 competition. The effort to upgrade technological and vocational education continues. The reform of the analytical programmes of both types of high school and the rationalisation of the matter shall be formulated. The introduction of two-year pre-school education is a fact. The school libraries network has been carried out. The extension of the full-day school to all schools in the country is a reality. The restructuring of support structures in schools is also a reality. And in order not to forget, the abolition of the punishing assessment is an act. The abolition of the self-righteous holiday of the teacher is an act. The abolition of the strikers' return policy is an act. The reintroduction of the supervision of private schools in the Ministry of Education is an act that you in New Democracy and PASOK are fighting so hard. But let us come back to the bill we are discussing. This bill also defines the curriculum of the 3rd grade, the method of obtaining the diploma and the introduction of pupils to higher education. It is a curriculum that serves learning in the school and not in the school. It is a program that attempts, as the Minister has often pointed out, to regain the third grade. Less general education courses, more hours of teaching in the courses considered in Greece, put an end to the hypocrisy it dissolved in the last grade of high school. Of course, I do not understand, as many others do, the necessity of maintaining as a general course of religious education, since a lesson, that of modern history, would be very useful. And to say otherwise, it's the knowledge that fascists hate most of all. Ladies and gentlemen, for SYRIZA education is not a field of competition and personal promotion. For SYRIZA education and excellence is a constant effort to be better. Because the point of excellence is, how we're gonna get better, not how we're gonna be the best. Because by becoming better the consequences are reflected in society as a whole. Instead, becoming the best means entering a process of competition, hostility and bitterness. How, then, do they see excellence in New Democracy? What did Mr. Mitsotakis say recently? He said he wanted young people not to need charity, the one who reached unemployment to 28% and kicked out four hundred thousand graduates from Greece. What did Mr. Kikilis say? He said social support makes the poor inactive and lazy. What did the President of EMU say? He said the benefits make the unemployed not looking for a job. And Mr Kymbouropoulos, though, a man of highest esteem, AME, a candidate in the Euroleaf, said he doesn't want any allowances and joys. Normally, according to the excellent people, for the sick, the unemployed, the unemployed, the helpless, the poor, it must not take care of the state. Because, after all, according to a eugenic theory, nature can regulate these, while social justice is an invention of the Left, the bad left and it costs a lot to the free market fund. Ladies and gentlemen, if these are the thoughts of excellence, I am very afraid that modern fascism does not come with tanks or pediatrics. Modern fascism comes from the unbearable lightness and the presumptuous inclination of excellence, from the insolence of excellence, which sees the weak as an obstacle to any growth, production and its profits. He will come, ladies and gentlemen, finishing up, devoured through intact costumes and white collars and his name will be intact neoliberalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u499	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being followed by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty members of the Hellenic Cultural Association "ARGO". The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u500	Mr President, I would like to make a little clarification of the document I have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u501	Mr. Tasula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u502	I have tabled a document from the School of Life Alumni in Ioannina, where they protest that the model of High School of Life in Ioannina is not being treated as a single school unit. The New Democracy, as Mrs Keramos has said on several occasions, is facing the Ioannina model of Life as a single school unit with high school and high school, and this will be institutionalised by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u503	Mr President, I would like to put forward some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u504	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u505	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to table the legislative improvements and also to mention the following amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u506	Quiet, please! Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u507	It's not about quiet. It is what is said and not allowed to be said. That's what I want to tell you. The honourable Member repeats...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u508	It's the legal system...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u509	Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u510	The sidewalk is a sidewalk and the House is a parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u511	Mr. Javarra, let me give you the floor if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u512	You'll give me the floor immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u513	Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u514	Amendment No 2144 and specific number 253, is accepted, and Amendment No 2146 and Amendment No 255, Amendment No 2147 general, and Amendment No 256 general, and Amendment No 2148 and Special Ref. 257, are accepted. [[At this point, the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr Constantine Gavroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] There is also a proposal that cannot be formally accepted, but it can be done in fact, as we did for the other research institutes, which can be despite the Kozani Library, as I said this morning, a historical library, important throughout Europe and the creation of a Archive Documentation Institute. But that will go to the senate of the University of Western Macedonia and that's where the decision should come from. However, it is a very interesting proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u515	Minister, the amendment under a general number 2148?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u516	I just said it was accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u517	Mr. Javarras has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u518	Minister, I see you are protesting wrongly. Although you are well aware that this way of legislating is not the right one, and it is not the parliamentary apology, because with these 'hidden-ministerial' amendments, which are indeed signed by majority colleagues, but it seems that they are in advance familiar with you, you are creating a huge issue, firstly, because a formal law is created in a way that prevents this law from being passed by the General Accounting Office of the State and especially by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. So what I would like to say, Mr President, is that it is not a picture of a democratic Parliament that it should come one, two or two of the SYRIZA Members sign an amendment which they have previously negotiated with the Minister and the Minister as Santa Claus to share schools in all the regions. And to finish, since this morning, I've had a personal matter. The Minister told me that I was indisputable, because I said to him, and I stood up to him when I was in the House, that there is a TECHA in the Tower of Elias - or when it will be established, if it is founded - which has been incorporated so far as we speak, so says the bill, at the Health Restoration Science School. So he told me I wasn't read. I have been informed by Mr Philly that he made an oral statement during the examination of the bodies that this will change. I have so far not been informed, although I am not indisputable and have studied all the written texts on this matter. So far I don't know what's gonna happen. Could you let me know, Minister? The fact that you insulted me, in any case, I forgive you. And your age and academic dependency allow you to insult me. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u519	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u520	My age is no excuse to offend any colleague. My age may be justified in confusing words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u521	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u522	The word 'unreadable' might have been wrong. "Great" was the right word. Obviously, I'm correcting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u523	I'll take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u524	Look, all the newspapers, the whole public word "played it". It's in the legal changes that I've now tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u525	Mr. Mumulides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u526	Thank you, Mr President. Fortunately, Mr Javarras has a sense of humour, and this is a comfort in this Chamber, because you are an essential note, just like your colleague, because today, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I do not have the habit of expressing myself like this. We have heard incredible expressions in this Chamber today. We're waiting for more than eight, ten hours, and we're only listening. We have rarely reacted. Personally, I wonder how you have set up this whole process today. You obviously have a political choice to communicate to bomb the government in order to gain its reparation with everything you say. However, nothing has really been said in this Chamber from the point of view of Officerial Responsibility. And I don't mean in terms of proposals. Your right is not to make proposals. However, nothing has been said about the substance of a bill on the future of Greek education. One could therefore assume that you are very satisfied with what is present in Greek education over time and that you would not want any change. Because, for more than three years, the only demand and the only proposal, which you have as a New Democracy, has been the obsessive desire for early use of the polls, I can see that, unfortunately, the policy has also been having its own deprivation syndrome and as time is shorter, seeing that the objective is not achieved and that the elections will take place on time and that the work of the government is progressing, you are moving on to a series of personalities. Today there has been a day of constant dissidents for the New Democracy. There have been heavy characterisations, a reason unacceptable to the parliamentary procedure, a reason that escapes rigour and becomes deeply insulting and deeply personal. So the New Democracy is rather attempting, as I appreciate, to create a climate of surely resurrecting the country's governance. But, unfortunately, you must be careful why it is absolutely understandable from society and, you know, society is returning to your glorious past fears it. So he would like another person and that is good to take this into account for the period up to the elections. In summary, therefore, I will say that it concludes a course of legislation for all three levels of education. Although the debate on education does not stop anywhere, as it is an eternal process of renewal and modernisation, this project changes the system of entry to higher institutions, in any case by upgrading the abolished system of high school 3 and relieves the Greek family that spends more than 2,5 billion euros a year on the introduction of pupils to higher education. I would say that with this bill the Greek Government, the Greek Ministry of Education, dares to complete for the first time in a period of less than four years a set of reforms, with any weaknesses. It is important, however, that it is a set of reforms, which only positively contributes. In my opinion, the establishment of a National Educational Training Centre is important. I shall now refer to the area I represent in western Macedonia, where we actually have the integration of TEI into the university with unanimous decisions from the Republican authorities. There are significant strong university schools and departments linked to the development model of the region. A competitive university is finally being created in western Macedonia, which will not be the poor relative of the academic map in the country. This is a strong university pole, linked to modern academic developments both in Greece and in Europe. It is linked, however, mainly to the next day, but also to the productive model of a region particularly affected by political decades. We therefore have as a sum a university institution which can play a strong development pillar in western Macedonia with more than twenty-seven, than we have just heard, university schools. In Kozani, we have a powerful polytechnic school. We have a strong faculty of economic sciences, which, from now on, by the mouth of the Minister, also has part of it, which will deal with an object that for the first time seems to be produced in Greece. In Ptolemais we have the headquarters of the School of Health Sciences, three departments of health sciences, which will now make a significant contribution to the development model of an area that has been looted in literality. It has contributed to the national economy, it has received little and the state comes through the Ministry of Education - I imagine other gestures - to give opportunities to exploit and conquer a different future. There is a very big development in the country, which is worth watching. You know that one of the world's largest industries is the audiovisual media industry. The Greek Government has taken important steps, leaps in this four-year period. He has legislated, spoken, at any time has succeeded in Greece turning more than fifty films and the estimate is that by the end of the year the films will exceed the number of one hundred. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. In the areas of Ptolemaida Ptolemais, that is to say, where the heart of Ptolemais hit for more than sixty years and today are inactive spaces of more than 40 thousand square meters, Ptome and the local community choose to attempt the prospect of creating film studios. This creates an optimistic future that directly answers the issue of unemployment and the quality of life. A great opportunity is created on the Kozani - Ptolemais - Florina - Balkans in the audiovisual sector. Here I would like to thank the Minister, because I have listened very carefully, with many reservations. And today, he gave the region two important parts, which are not as you can see in the form of a sludge. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'd like 30 seconds. You have to understand. These two sections are the future. The first section, based in Kosani, relates to the Audiovisual Media Production Department. It's a process that doesn't exist in Greek reality. To train in this area, one should go to London or to America. Nowadays, the Ministry is announcing this. And the second one, which is touching, is the following. In Florina, in the history of Florina, a section of film is being created. In Florina that Theodore Angelopoulos loved, we give as a minimum the tribute, a section of film, to honor one of the greatest filmmakers. I shall close briefly, Minister, with the capital of state education. I have said that the capital of education and culture is not the case of a talented minister, a series of advisers or a government, it is a matter of time. So the part of state education and state education I think it should concern us in the next few months. And I think that the conditions are mature to create an important area in the audiovisual media sector, which is the future, the conditions for regulation in the field of state education and state education are mature. There is the Greek culture, which must be incorporated into the Greek educational system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u527	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u528	I'll be done. Because we have had a great deal of trouble with the question of utility, the question of music schools, I think that the answer to the question of music education, Mr Minister, is to attempt - for the first time - the nine-year-old music school. It's the most scientifically documented version. That is what the rest of Europe is doing, so let us not trouble ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u529	We continue with the next speaker, who is SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Theleritis. Mrs. Thalerite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u530	Ladies and gentlemen, as Nikos Philis, rapporteur of the SYRIZA, said, with the multi-brand plan that we are voting on today, the government is attempting to provide a sample of the necessary democratic reform in education, that is to say, to pass from the crisis school to the development school. The aim of this government is to draw up a new Charter of Education, with emphasis on higher education and the launch of a new system of introduction to higher education. This draft law, therefore, is a development of the interventions which have been passed over the last four years and have been aimed at strengthening higher education and its social and public character. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, as we have heard from many of you in Stepma, yes, we could say that we can have an ideal in terms of the public nature of education. So we want to support him in this publicity, and this reform that is being attempted, it just comes to confirm that education will be of a public nature. What are these main axes of the new architecture, which you have been trying to bring to education for thirty-five years and have you not been able to achieve? Four are the axes: Creation of new departments, cooperation between HEIs and TEIs, establishment of university research centres and provision for research institutes and two-year curricula for graduates of PESALs, which will lead to professional certificates, with European qualifications. Here too, it is very important to upgrade the institution of vocational education, not only because it provides a more - and we would say - a direction towards technical education, but because it comes and gives real economic needs, which will also be beneficial to universities themselves, because it will fill a gap in applied knowledge and skills, which is the basis of the two-year programme. With the draft law, therefore, the government is attempting to respond to major problems and needs, for example, the fact that the III high school has, in substance and in fact, been abolished and, to be resolved, progresses in a curriculum. We should also ask ourselves: This curriculum comes to respond to existing problems, namely that the existing system of introduction into the HEIs is causing candidates and candidates, is being used exclusively to teach introduction techniques to higher education and does not provide substantial education? The pan-Hellenic examinations, in fact, are undeniably an unstable system, but it has given a great deal of thought to its pedagogical credibility. Children's families, who give examinations, spend EUR 2.5 billion each year and only 30% are imported into schools, which they have chosen and to which they wish to study. It is therefore necessary to change that is being attempted and can give in the future free access to the high school dismissal. So it starts and there is a system with a dynamic and a perspective. Finally, the government is attempting to make the two arms of higher education equal, of higher education, of HEIs and TEIs, confronting them, in a framework for higher education. And here we know very well that he had been involved in the past, he was left on paper. And of course I do not want to mention the project, the so-called 'ATHENA', which was attempted to implement in 2013. We understand and know very well that instead of resolving, it has made problems worse by closing TEIs and so on. They have been mentioned by my colleagues. Finally, we are talking about strengthening universities with a restructuring of academic departments, creating new and dynamic subjects, so that there can be an active response to international challenges. This upgrade is also being attempted for the University of Peloponnese, with academic sections, which are focused on modern challenges and future problems in the field of arts, nutrition, health sciences and technology. The establishment of new structures within a university, such as university research centres, is very important. And here I would like to refer to the amendment that we have tabled together with Members of Parliament, Corinthia and Argolidis, which concerns the creation of a Institute for Vineyards and Wine and Beekeeping. I shall refer to the Institute for Vineyards and Wine, since we all know that the Peloponnese is one of the wine-growing departments of the country which is of great ecological interest, particularly in Corinthia and especially in the Nemea region. Although the Peloponnese presents this oenological and wine-growing interest and despite the considerable potential of the industry, so far no State institution has been established to undertake the integrated, systematic and applied research in this sector. The proposal, therefore, for the establishment of the Institute of Vine and Wine based in Nemea, upgrades the University of Peloponnese and, in fact, aims to meet this need. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] In addition, the establishment of the proposed institute will contribute to the productive reconstruction of the Peloponnese Region and will support through research by producers and cooperative bodies in the region, in the direction of the variety reorientation of the Peloponnese vineyards, the guarantee of high quality and the strengthening of the export character of the products produced. It is very important to have this applied research in this area, because it will also contribute to greater specialization and to the efficiency of crops. In fact, producers will also be able to adopt the research results. It is also very important that grape producers and wine producers will be supported in order to adopt new and innovative crops, which in turn will help to ensure high quality. Finally, the institute could make greater use of its intra-varietal characteristics, i.e. the Greek vineyard, and develop new varieties for the production of local wines. Nemea is proposed not only for historical reasons, but because it has numerous comparative advantages, modern wineries, high know-how in viticulture, high quality production, experience in wine tourism and infrastructure. We therefore believe that the Minister should adopt the proposal for the establishment of the Institute and accept the amendment. Two words on the two amendments tabled. One is about school security guards. We believe that this amendment concludes the process initiated by Law 4604/2019 to restore the injustices of school guards to the municipalities, which are transported from hospitals to municipalities, where they had gone through compulsory availability. What is this amendment going to do? Please specify that the rate of cover of 50% required for the specialisation posts to which this transfer staff member belongs will also be taken into account by officials serving in individual posts. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me two seconds, Mr. President. Finally, the proposal concerns the ministerial amendment enabling small island municipalities to establish permanent staff for the 'Help at Home' programme, not on the basis of how many contracts are currently active but on the basis of the positions laid down by these conventions, which have been concluded by the municipalities with the Development and Government Company. Ladies and gentlemen, we are implementing the constitutional requirement for special protection of islands...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u531	Please, Mrs. Welleritis, you've been talking ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u532	I'm done. At the same time, we give these regions the opportunity to create strong care structures and to provide care in remote areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u533	Thank you. We shall proceed to the next speaker, Mr Dimitriadis, MP of SYRIZA. Please keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u534	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be okay with time. Madam Minister and Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is about a cycle of change and reforms that we have done and are doing in education. These reforms are always legal, they are always in the public interest and the needs for research, knowledge, in short, the search for emancipation with a view to freedom. For the first time, there will be computers in the country that will only have university schools. The myth that technological education is being abolished is indeed a myth simply because we firmly believe that the theory goes hand in hand with practice. We know and it is true that technological education is underestimated and is mainly underestimated in the consciousness of conservatives. That's why they always want her separate, they want her underestimated. But instead, we are creating a new architecture in higher education with new data. As far as technological education is concerned, we propose to all secondary technological education and IEK the two-year programmes, with which we believe we are closing the cycle perfectly on the question of technological education. The act of upgrading technological institutions to universities so far gives us a huge dynamic and strengthens this initiative and its integration. Our aim is to integrate new sections and new areas of scientific interest. Secondly, the synergy of TEIs with university institutions. Thirdly, to promote as much as possible, because that is precisely the important objective for us, university research and technology in our country. And fourthly, we should pay due attention to the two-year curriculum, so that we can really solve the problems of production with highly trained technical staff. In short, we manage and give new resources and new jobs to a number of things relating to public education with a prospect of progress. First of all, we offer better education to our users and children. Secondly, this perspective is also absolutely developmental and compatible with our development I want, precisely because we add hundreds of new jobs to highly trained staff and we add new resources over EUR 15 million through the ESRB, mainly in upgrading our country's higher education. Now I am talking about what I am most interested in and about my region, western Macedonia and its university. We're talking about a full upgrade. We had two specific poles, a very small university community and a fairly powerful technological education institution. We are therefore able to pass it on to a reconstruct, adding many important new sections. Twenty-five plus two of the amendment we have tabled, twenty-seven in total. At the same time, there is the possibility of converting the various large-scale establishments in the region that concern PPC, AEVAL, to new uses or work, but in this case, teachers of interest. We manage to make use of the huge and most important library of Kozani, creating a corresponding institute for this purpose. We're claiming the two university schools in Florida. We create a university school in Ptolemais and Kastoria. We're strengthening the Grevenes. Our objectives are generally those. In particular, we are going through the troubles of western Macedonia. We have a higher target dictated by two major parameters. The first is that western Macedonia has a high geopolitical value for our region, always aiming at the western Balkans. It is assumed that western Macedonia, through this process of strengthening its university, comes out of the crisis, comes out of the deadlock, comes from the isolation imposed by the distorted historical periods. Secondly, we have the given mark of the transition from the coal economy to the knowledge economy, which we are truly responsible for, we respond, because we believe that this is what we have to do, and if we did not do so, we think no one would do so. In short, we are targeting, with regard to the Kosani Prefecture in particular, and in turn, Ptolemais and Kosani, precisely because they are affected by the collapse of the lignite economy. Our effort should therefore have a calculation. So the funds, resources and educational opportunities should focus on this area, precisely for that reason, and we do not hide it. In short, I am passing on to specific proposals. First, in Ptolemais, the health science school, which is a very important parameter, has two conditions. The first is that it has to work in my opinion another department this year, I mean for the school year 2019-2020. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I'm ending. So we'll add another section to the existing department in operation to stabilise the school. Secondly and more importantly, the university equivalent of the Ptolemais Hospital must be soon created in this semester so that it can meet the increased requirements of the coming period. Secondly, creation of an institute in Kosani. We have proposed this, amended it and from what I have just heard the Minister accepted it. So I don't have much to say. We also want to create a new school - we have proposed it by means of a specific amendment with my colleagues - in Florina and Kozani, focusing on the possibility of creating in the majorities of the Public Power Corporation the conditions for the production of multimedia films and so on. The amendments were tabled. So we're very pleased. On the issue of SA, we must highlight some important things. In order to make the possibility of creating competitive periods, because we are talking about private investment, there should be a transfer of real estate to the public sector, precisely so that it can give the future investor an incentive. We must not forget that this ADI is amidst two important mines and therefore a major nuisance and a process that is inconsistent with creativity processes. So the appropriate restorations, which are already scheduled, must soon be made, namely the creation of a lake where it once existed, which will in turn be irrigated by Campo of Ptolemais. At the same time, the restoration of the arc from the village Protestio which is on the city's visual horizon until Karyochori, should proceed as quickly as possible. The prerequisites exist, we just have to have a political will. The possibility of creating the transformation of MSF into a productive process reinforces this effort that I believe will be for the best, because the exhausted mines must at some point have deadline. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirdly, in this perspective we must also see the use of AEVAL in the same region - I shall end, Mr President - and at the same time it is public. It must be linked to the civil protection already provided for in the Institute's matter. This proposal raises the bar too high indeed. Our effort is beginning to succeed and is in the hands of our country's forces, which are important and capable. The success of the project is part of a success of the country's wider development plan and in this regard also of the many Western Macedonias.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u535	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u536	The destiny of our region is the extroversion. Our region has always been a protagonist in the Balkans, as it will soon be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u537	Thank you very much. We shall proceed with Mr Prussakis, Member of the New Democracy. I would remind Members that they do not exceed the time. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u538	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, you have tabled a draft law which is a monument of government irresponsibility by fast track procedures. You have shown an unforgivable curiosity in matters relating to education. You proceeded to an oversized unification. You are legislating to dismantle our educational system by causing shock. Reconstruct the academic map of the country with voting criteria, without a plan, without an evaluation report and without a sustainability report. You are thus justifying your ideological allergy to private universities which would be the biggest investment in the country. Cyprus is shouting, but you, unfortunately, are not listening. You didn't have the bravery to vote on Article 16 and throw the country into untreated stateism. You have inspired the deterioration, not to say the abolition, of the higher education technology sector without obtaining the professional rights of graduates. You unify disparate things. Go to the Kavala TEI, Dramas, Twin wall at the International University of Thessaloniki. You forgot about the Democritus University of Thrace. You put Thrace on the margin. Why have you not carried out this combination, if you have decided, with the Democrat University, so that you can also achieve the enlargement of the Foundation to the geographical limits of the administrative region? Unfortunately, you are creating problems instead of solving them. Who ensures the funds for the TEIs you brought together? The Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace or the Region of Central Macedonia, since there were parts in both regions? You prove your obsession with anything that has to do with the progress of the Democritus University of Thrace. You don't see Thrace's issues with a national glance. You are founding Fourth Law in Patras. You dedicate the Law of Komotini, which was founded in 1974 and its scientific work goes beyond Greek territory. And the question is eloquent: Which academic, which doctoral or postgraduate student will decide to come to the law of the Aristotle Komotini when you develop a new Law School very close to the capital of the country? I submitted to you on 11 December 2018 and a written question, co-signed by the Members of Kavala and Drama, Mr Panagiotopoulos and Mr Kyriazides. Of course we have not received a reply, as did the other questions we have tabled, because you are despising parliamentary control. At the same time they uncover Departments of Engineering from the association of TEIs with the universities, but also parts of Geoponia, but also of Forestry, such as Patras, Arta, Karpenisi and Karditsa, and not only. You are thus degrading the quality of studies. You create conditions of competition in a business sector already saturated. This is about the School of Sciences in Agriculture and Forestry of the New Orestiad of Democritus. In this direction, a name change is presented in the Rural Development Section. You want it to be called Agronomic in order to distinguish from the corresponding parts of the agricultural development that you have planted throughout the country. I'm going to go to another topic about the Two-Double Nursing School. You convert it into an annex to the Department of Nursing Thessaloniki of the School of Health Sciences. You degrade it and gradually lead it to shrinking, extinction. The word 'Annex' is your invention. So tell me where else does the term 'Annex' meet in the structure of a modern Greek university? If you wanted to upgrade my remote city and my historic hometown you would create a Department of Nursing based in the Twinmotich and an annex, please, in Thessaloniki. Don't be afraid, you won't degrade her like this. You have, after all, done so with the harmful Prespecies Treaty. Why don't you anticipate in this draft LPIS? What will be the number of importers? I have also written to you in electronic consultation my proposals to establish a new similar section that will "walk" with the Department of Nursing, to interconnect the department with the Dubot Hospital and the other health centers. I'm sure you didn't even read them, despite the fact that you told me to send them to your email, which is why I'm folding them for you, as well as for the Minutes of the House, if you could take a look at them, so I can answer Mr. Dimitriadis that we have proposals, but you don't listen to them. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios (Tsos) and Mr Anastassios (Tsos) presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to finish by making a reference to the regulations on standards and experimental schools. You level these schools, as it disturbs you that are hives of excellence. Set personal effort aside and level it all down. Let me remind you that the New Democracy has promised to set up a model and an experimental school in each region. Be sure, Minister, that the New Democracy will make its commitment. I would also like to stress that our President is one of the potential prime ministers who has promised and pledged that every issue of Thrace will see it at national level. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u539	Thank you, too. The Member of the New Republic, Mr Kefaliannis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u540	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is today legislating on education by redeeming once again the parliamentary procedure and, of course, the Greek society, by introducing last week this bill of over two hundred articles and thousands of pages, a bill regulating critical issues of the education system. It's really disgraceful and it's still a procession fully aligned with the four-year course of collapse of the social values system that you carved as government. An entire government cycle closes, leaving behind debris, with Greek society experience to a extreme extent the lack of opportunities for employment, education, pay, good health and everything else constitutes an indicator of social welfare. Ladies and gentlemen, today the planned and systematic plan of SYRIZA Government to dismantle the entire Greek education system, starting in 2015 with the bill of the then Minister of State, Mr Baltas, and which was continued by the current Minister of Gavroglou in 2018, which erased all TEIs from the academic map, except for some that erased today. This bill concludes the levelling-out of high school and higher education, while abolishing the concept of the model school. It is another seal of SYRIZA's abhorrentness for the concepts of excellence, evaluation and innovation. You had to legislate so that all secondary education could move according to the standards of public education and not engage in iso-population oversimplifications. You also pay a one-sided dimension to the role of the Third High School, as it is limited exclusively as pre-institutional year at the IOIs, while students of the Second High School are asked to decide which schools will turn their interest without knowing which of them will be next year in the category of schools with or without introductory examinations. These are dangerous toys at the expense of pupils, teachers and parents, just to pre-election that - allegedly - you have abolished the pan-Hellenic tests. In fact, not only do you not abolish them, but we are returning to a disguise of the four links, with the difference that the distinction between free access schools and schools with access to introductory examinations is being established. We will have 'green' and'red' schools that will change color every year depending on the degree of preference for each school. It is the most catastrophic scenario, both for secondary and tertiary education, since in addition to two speed, increased and reduced prestige, you also create two speed sanitations. Legislation on education is dangerous and within the limits of the Constitution. Moreover, the Government continues its work of quantitative and not of qualitative growth in education, with the establishment of schools and departments from university and TEI synergies, without feasibility study, without academic criteria and, of course, without studying the real needs of the labour market, which should be a crucial parameter of the establishment of a university department or school. These are issues that obviously leave you indifferent. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to focus in particular on Articles 98 and 99. Recognition of qualifications of formal higher education in a Member State, in accordance with the legislation in force, gives the beneficiary access to any economic or professional activity under the same conditions as the holders of comparable qualifications in the education system of the national state. It is clear that the abolition of the process of recognizing the professional equivalence introduced also means abolishing access to the labour market. In other words, the principle of economic freedom laid down by the Constitution itself and the relevant articles of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are being violated directly. You continue the work of undermining academic freedom, equal opportunities in education and the labour market, as you have done in the recent process of revising the Constitution. You ignore the problems created in young children who do not want to leave the country to study abroad. Instead of motivating these children not to go away, push them along with their families into insecurity. Before, then, the Prime Minister is looking for a solution to the demographic problem in the integration of migrants, he should ensure that the great Greek human capital remains in our country. The bill you bring not only is not a reform, but is a perfect regression. Four years you have now delivered education to chaos and immunity. Ladies and gentlemen, the transition to the 21st century has marked widespread transformations in the political, social and economic spheres. Knowledge as an instrument for individual and social development is a basic factor in adapting to the process of transition. The country needs to develop a new development dynamic with a vehicle, a training system that meets the new challenges of rapid economic and social change, a new friendly investment environment with public-private partnerships, where new jobs will be created with better wages and more prospects. Only through deep reform areas in education, but also in the state, can we look again at the recovery of lost social values: democracy, evaluation, transparency, equal opportunities. All this needs political will, which this government does not have. The days of deadlocked idealist politics, pheasantness and populism end very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u541	Thank you, too. Mr. Konstantinos Dousinas, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u542	Thank you, Mr President. I have to say that I have had a terrible impression on all these tribulations, the hierarchies, the catastrophe that I heard here from many colleagues, whose relationship with the university ended a few decades ago, when they came out of the universities and took their degrees. And now they are talking about excellence, about Gabroglou, about Baltas, who have written more books than the others - and I have read here. We must be a little more modest, ladies and gentlemen. You can't talk like that all the time. So I am going to use my long experience - forty years I am a teacher in the University of London - and in administrative and academic terms. I would like to say a few things about the issues that have to do with the universities. The project of the partnership between higher education institutions harmonizes our country with developments in Europe. In many European countries higher education has been transformed into a university. In 1992, in England all polytechnics became universities with a legislative act. I happened to be a member of the university union. In the process towards universityisation of polytechnics and the government and opposition - the Labour Party at that time - both unions and prefectures entered a long debate, negotiation with the government. When the plan was finally made, all sides welcomed it. What have we heard here these days - and the Commission - from the opposition, and even our colleagues in the POSPEA, the trade union! We have heard a basic principle: "Start it, take it off. It's nothing good." There was no proposal that I should at least have heard - of course I missed with the proposals - to improve the bill. So what will Mr Mitsotakis say if - beating wood - he becomes Prime Minister to these teachers who are now at TEI and then will be university? "You're done. Come back here. Don't have any research funds. Do not have the possibility of overseeing doctorals." What's he gonna say to the students coming out of the universities? Is he going to tell them "go back and become a TEI student"? Will he tell them that? Or will we have what I hear about 'Prespes'? "We are against the Prespecies Agreement, but on the other hand, we will do nothing to change it." That's gonna happen here, too. I think we should have figured it out for good. To go back to two issues that I have a personal relationship with and a personal interest. The first is the issue of the international university. Last year, in another draft by the Ministry of Education, I had the initiative together with others to put an amendment which enabled the international university, in cooperation with other universities, to start making foreign-language diplomas. The international university, as you have heard, was built ten years ago. In this ten-year period it did not actually achieve much. He had a total of three hundred fifty students, 10% to 15% of whom were foreign students. It is now possible, after unification with three TEIs in the region of Macedonia, to be able to have foreign languages and foreignlanguage degrees in all three courses: first, second and doctoral. With regard to what you have repeatedly accused us of - and you cannot now blame Gabroglou, Balta and I for this - that we have no outwards, that we are introverted, that we are somehow not interested in the international stage, now a next step is taking place, which I personally hope will be able to generalise for other universities. We heard no one say "go on, guys. Do you now allow what we called you that you do not do it'? We're doing it now. It didn't sound a word. The second thing I would like to say is that it relates to the unanimous decision of the assembly of the University of Patras to create a fourth legal school, which, they say, will have characteristics that will distinguish it from the three existing legal schools, and these features relate to the legal thinking and action of the future. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the honour of making two legal schools. One was the Birkbeck College Law School of the University of London in 1992. Three were appointed to do that. Birkbeck College is the oldest college of the University of London - celebrates its two hundred years in 2023, like the Greek Revolution - but did not have a legal school and appointed us to fix it. This legal school - which we were five in 1992, today is thirty-five - is in the first ten in terms of evaluating the ninety legal schools in Great Britain and the first in the world as the centre of critical legal studies. This is what I hope will be done in Greece as well. So there we teach the students of law not a hundred or fifty topics and sides that each professor wants to do, but a few lessons. They're learning the legal thought, what Mr. Javaras said. Legal thought is the way to talk, it's one way to understand. It is not a matter of memorizing laws, codes and case law. It's about learning to speak like a lawman, which means having a critical mind and a way of speaking. That's what we did and we've become first in the world. I made four others from the University of Cyprus Law School. He didn't have the University of Cyprus Legal School. He appointed an international committee, we were two Greeks and three other states and we created the University of Cyprus Law School. Today the law school at the public university has been recognized even less, younger at age as a legal school that has really begun to succeed and to lay roots in the legal tradition and case law of the Republic of Cyprus. So I have had these experiences, and I think these are precisely the experiences that characterize for me the most important parts of this bill, because they introduce into the bill a new logic from which we have known so far at the university, which one goes and bored and retreats. What Nietzsche was saying, that when students only listen, their ears grow, because they only listen to the professor and the ear grow because he eats the brain. He takes evidence of the brain and raises his ear. I'll finish by saying this. Mr Tasoulas said a few things before that, and Mr Javarras says so, and there I think we agree in general, but I want to say something to which I think most people will agree, those who have read, anyway. Education has nothing to do with diplomas. You may have, as they say, the strongest CV, CV in the House or in someone else, and you're completely unorthodox. Because being educated means that you have a form, that you have a harmony, that you have something that has nothing to do with getting a degree from Harvard or if you're a teacher there or somewhere else, but it's about how your overall understanding of the world and of the other, really puts you in an internal, harmonious, organicly beautiful relationship with the world. So this has nothing to do with a degree, as I said here is excellence than we understood, because you can find and I have found farmers who had greater excellence in their aesthetics, the way they understood life than many others who had too many degrees from good universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u543	Thank you, too. Mrs Triantafyllou, Member of the SYRIZA, now has the floor, and then Mr Karasmanis. Here, Mrs. Triantafel, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u544	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, it has been mentioned by several colleagues, the debate on a draft law on education and education has been disappointing several times. In any case, however, it is indicative of the way in which some colleagues are dealing with education issues. Of course, I have to say, starting with the most practical issues, for example the new schools or the restructuring that is being undertaken, that we are talking with an ease, unemployed students, unemployed farmers, unemployed engineers and even when we are well aware that children are leaving abroad and when we want to keep these children internally. So when you talk about private universities, what kind of cognitive objects are you talking about? What cognitive objects will these private universities have? Because if there is no room for public universities, then there can be no room for private universities and I'm talking about cognitive objects. If we want to keep the kids, we need to make better universities and, of course, a lot more. There must be a place of work, work and care. Of course I must say that if we are talking about education - and it was right that my dear colleague, Mr Tassoulus, who spoke about convenience - I would say that this convenience exists in criticism too, and, unfortunately, there was also in committees, even on the part of many academics. There is a view today that technological development enables everyone to know or to know, without difficulty, easily. There is also an easy discussion for ancient Greek and Latin. I, of course, will say that as a philosopher I have taught ancient Greek and Latin and I have been taught, but I have to tell you that the knowledge of ancient Greek or Latin has nothing to do with whether a child is finally starting from the first high school with the ancient text. I, for example, was never taught an ancient text in the first three grades of high school. And yet when we were giving tests, I especially remember my own who had only four philosophical schools in Greece, with a very high score, it was necessary to write too high grades to go to one of these four philosophical schools. Also, do not think - unfortunately, I regret to say this - that Latin today is the property of children who give legal or general philosophical treatment. The draft law concludes the arrangements for setting up the single area of higher education. There are old and new reforms, and you usually know the concept of reform, the time of progression comes very often, but that is not always the case. Reforms are always judged by objectives and are always judged by how they are implemented. I mean two things. It is also here that Mr Javarras referred to several times invoking the word 'assessment', invoking the word 'consultation', invoking the word 'dialogue' and other colleagues from New Democracy. Let's go to "Athena". It started undemocratic and went unscientific and I am explaining. How were the departments and schools changed in the recent past, in 2013, when the "Athena" project was passed? The departments were founded before and in this case, as they were founded, by micro-political purposes serving customer relations and interconnecting with local powers. Some of these sections had rooted and yielded fruit with significant results. For example, in Aetolocarnana with the "Athena" project, the Messology TEI was partitioned, which was too high in evaluation. I also asked Mrs Kerameou, I would like to ask Mr Javarra now: Really, on what criteria was she broken up? Wasn't there an evaluation? Those words were unknown? I have to tell you what we're doing now. We are trying to create strong and large regional universities. Changes are made to upgrade higher education, but also based on the data we have. And such a given, unfortunately, was the great dispersion of schools and departments throughout the country, without there being a homogeneity of cognitive objects. And in this bill - because we must speak frankly - there are schools and there are departments that are not in the same prefecture and in the same region with the same cognitive objects. It's done, I think, the best possible. The establishment of a rural school in a county with great production in the primary sector is preferable for Itoloacarnania, and it is upgraded to create sections to improve the production model. It is time-consuming that we are unable to link production to the university and nutrition to the university. It's upgraded to try to ensure and enhance production, keep young people on the ground. There is, therefore, a direct link, in my view, to the comparative advantages, at least in Itoolokarnania. Of course I must say that there must be safeguards in the legislature so that the sections which are set up are not 'empty shirts' and, above all, there must be no academic disruption and confusion, of course, in the students. There must be infrastructure, ICPs, student care, care for administrative staff and, of course, care for transition and mobility. There are samples of writing from this government. Five hundred IGC members were given, and here we have to ask ourselves - we have also told the committees - why only a hundred were absorbed. 'Cause the self-defence is getting a little hot. We want it, but it's all right, when it walks hand-hand with the coalition. Self-employed is a tool for the better functioning of universities and education and, unfortunately, also in the committee with bodies, such different approaches have appeared. I want two - three points to choose and to go to the most specialized places in the region. I think we should first of all determine the place and time for the transition of the departments of the Western Greece TEI, which are part of the departments of the University of Patras in Patras. I also think that the number of new ITD members should be determined in each of the new sections established either in 2019 and 2020 primarily, but later on. There must also be a new provision of administrative staff for the new departments of Messology and Itolocarnania in general. I believe that there must be mobilisation of the LAG members to staff the new departments and that is very important. Of course, I would like to propose a legislative improvement. In Article 40(1), in paragraph (k) I think that it should be added to the order in which it says after the word 'growth' the words'vegetable production section'. I'm talking about moving members. I will end here by saying that it is a bill, which really intends to cure wounds that existed from the past. I think, however, that substantial efforts are needed and, above all, I would insist that we do not create 'empty shirts', but that there is substantial student care and substantial care for ICP members, for mobility and transitionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u545	Mr Karasmanis, Member of the New Democracy, now has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u546	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill on a very big issue concerning education and the country's educational map. On such a serious issue, we should have a dialogue, a pool of views and a draft law that is perfectly and practicable. Unfortunately, the government without the necessary dialogue brings this large bill for the radical reorganisation of our educational map. It abolishes schools, merges, establishs or renames others. It decides and legislates against the punctual memory "decides and orders". And you do that, gentlemen of the government, when? I'm letting Professor Babiniotis speak about when. So the professor says: “You are going to these changes to the only five of your government's term of office and you are committing to them the next government. You are doing so without a real dialogue with universities and institutions, and this is reflected in the body of the reactions. All of these are election decisions," says Mr Babiniotis. So you are founding and renamed TEIs to "Technological Direction in Multi-Technical Schools". You are ignorant of the Technical Chamber of Greece itself, which states that every year four thousand engineers are deleted and most of them leave abroad. It also says the TEI that 80% of its members have debts on the industry fund, which proves the deadlock in which they are founded and you are setting up new multi-technical schools. Ladies and gentlemen, when I read that a School of Music is being set up in Edessa, it was a pleasure. It is welcome, of course, that decision. But when I read that you want to do this with a simple amendment without dialogue, without documentation, without having incorporated into the bill, I was really surprised. In the twenty-three years of my parliamentary term, I have never seen the establishment of a university school so sloppy and sloppy that a whole school is set up in the foot, at noon, with a simple amendment, without the required report of the General Accounting Office, without a study of feasibility and viability, without guaranteeing students' professional rights, without knowing details of the main object. The revelations, however, of governmental manipulation and misleadingness were with Article 36 of the bill under discussion. What's he saying? It says that the University of Patras is also founded at the University of Music, based in the Tower of Ilia, which is part of the School of Humanities and Social Sciences. Watch out now. In this school the introduction of students will begin this year, from the academic year 2019-2020, but in Pella the start of academic operation and the introduction of students to the school to be set up in Edessa will be determined by a statement from the senator, taking into account logistical infrastructure and educational staff and, in any case, not earlier than the academic year 2020-2021. In other words, you experiment, gentlemen of the government, so that when we take into account the school of the Tower, which has a relevant object and will start this year, we will only see what we are going to do with the school in Edessa. I mean, Pella's on paper waiting for you. That reminds us of "Life, May, to eat a clover". Ladies and gentlemen, because there have been reports, I too should like to remind you of a few things. In Edessa, there was a well-known university marketing and operating management school. It closed in 2013 after a decade of operation with the "Athena". Because some may ask: "What did you do about it?" I'll catch up with them. This school was not closed by law in the House, but by a presidential decree that closed or merged a hundred schools, including the entire University of Western Greece based in Lamia, as well as in Imathia two schools. I mention this because it is a neighbouring county. So in the vortex of this hurricane the school of Edessa was also lured. We are all aware that we have fought with the actors in the prefecture to be held, but, as we said, in the hurricane warp, hundreds of sections were closed and hundreds of sections were closed and our own university school. Unfortunately, we didn't. They all remember that I had warned in good time, ten years before the establishment of this school, that all those educational institutions and departments that then fleeed like mushrooms were still still still still alive, and that when the bells of the Community funds that financed them were closed, they would be doomed, as they were. The same will happen now with all the sections founded on the foot with the draft legislation being discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that a realistic rationalisation of the country's educational charter is needed, but not like this in the foot with cuffs, without design and without substantial dialogue and broad consensus, which must be a precondition for such a serious national project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u547	Thank you. We move on to the next speaker, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, from the Communist Party of Greece. Please, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u548	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, if I took cash in some Members' seats with many folds and folds, then I shouldn't have taken the floor. However, I shall also dare to speak on the issues of education. The new reform, which brings about the Gabroglou project, is a follow-up to the previous ones, the New Democracy and the PASOK. It does not bring any incision at all. It is a follow-up, because a guide to writing this bill, a basic criterion, but also a red line for the mergers that are being promoted for higher education, is nothing but compliance by the current government with the objectives of the European Union and the OECD on education issues. So these objectives can be codified into three major sections: firstly, it is the adaptation of education - particularly higher education - to the needs of enterprises. With today's bill, as well as the previous ones, with which we had other mergers, you are going to create departments, to study programs based on the needs of business speeches and to design every region for capitalist development. Submit the research even more, but also form and create research centres and institutes with the sole aim of how to serve the needs of shielding the competitiveness and capitalist profitability of business groups. Secondly, it is the adaptation of higher education on the basis of the needs of the labour market, that is, on the basis of the working middle age which you and the previous governments have shaped in the Greek labour market, based on the guidelines of the European Union for the reproduction of a very cheap and consumable workforce. So we have downgrades of degrees, multiple-speed diplomas, disconnection of the degree from professional rights, degrees from fragmentary credits, that is, degrees of use for consumable graduates, without knowledge of the scientific object, knowledge that means critical approach, knowledge that means questioning and producing new knowledge. This, however, is unfortunately a revolutionary process for you, precisely because those people who know and question are dangerous for your exploitive system, which wants a new man trapped, trapped and subjected to the scratches of capitalist businesses, slave, i.e. hired. And the third major section is the reduction of costs, as you call it, for education, to reduce funding. So you are resorting to ever more commercialisation of education from primary school, from kindergarten to school. You put tuition fees not only in postgraduate studies, but also in undergraduate studies. Degrade and shrink even further student care, creating even greater class barriers to access to and completion of students' studies from popular backgrounds. Here too, student care is a great example. At the University of Patras 15 years after the earthquakes, only half the rooms run and you're five years in government. Privately privatize and trade feeding, keeping, creating even greater obstacles to access to student care for students. And to come to the most specific, the developments and the mergers you made in western Greece and the Peloponnese. After several possible and amazing scenarios, which had no scientific basis at all, as proven, you have come up with a specific project which leads to the establishment of three new schools and fourteen new departments at Patras University. And as far as the TEI is concerned, half goes to the University of Patras and half goes, the schools of technological education, go to the University of Peloponnese. In other words, there will be schools located in Patras and their seat will be in Tripoli, when there is another university in Patras. What's the logic? What combination is this? Who thought about it? What mind with such great scientific depth did this kind of thought and reasoning go on? Merge the Social Work Department with the Municipal Education Department! Here science really raises hands up! These are, therefore, monstrous mergers, as our rapporteur called them, mergers - Frankenstein. And of course, this is not an upgrade of the TEI, as you say whispering to the students of the TEI to get their support. And a train example and proof of this is the University of Western Attica. There are huge shortages of teachers, unpaid teachers, and even teachers recruited a month before the examinations, not to mention the remaining obstacles, the lack of logistics workshops, which are inexistent at the University of Western Attica. Moreover, graduates and graduates with university degrees are not even equal. On the contrary, it is maintained and extended the categorisation of the degrees, the separation of active and inactive students, who will have a university degree and who will have a TE. So you categorize students even more. At the same time, on the other hand, you claim and tell the students of the universities "Look to see, don't worry, it's not going to change anything in the departments of the university", to reassure them. However, these huge mergers without the beginning, the middle and the end will condone all the segments, because they will further downgrade the infrastructure that is already in a marginal state. So they will make it difficult for everyone to study independently and give a new strong blow to education rights and to the professional perspective of all students. The departments are abolished and merged, leaving students in the air, additional categories of graduates and graduates are created, strengthening competition between students, leading to the degradation of everyone's rights. That is why the JRC is opposed to these projects, because these mergers and restructurings at universities and at TEI will have dramatic and painful consequences, universities and schools, but also parts of different speeds, the break-up of the scientific object, the deepening of private-sector business as a business in universities, the intensity of sub-financing. That is why the JRC will table a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill, but also on Article 100 that turns high school into an examination centre. And from this point of view, we set out specific fighting targets for exclusively public and free education at all levels, with state funding, direct recruitment of permanent full-time and full-time staff, single curriculum per scientific object, a degree that will be the only condition for full access to the profession, immediate abolition of tuition fees, upgraded contemporary writings that will respond to university-level studies, increase State funding for research and training at the level of modern needs, free feeding, housing, travel and medical care for students and abolition of all kinds of business for institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u549	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u550	Mr. President, may I ask Mr. Karathanasopoulos something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u551	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u552	Mr. Colleague, can you tell me where in undergraduate studies we have tuition fees?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u553	At the International University of Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u554	Wait, I want to let you know that it's not just in International, it's also in the English-language section of the University of Athens Philosophy School. Do you know who the registration fee is for?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u555	Tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u556	No, I ask you, you tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u557	Tell us, I don't know, I'm supposed to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u558	But if you don't know, don't say these things here, because you're making impressions. Well, let me tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u559	The end will enter foreign students. But that's not true, because it's also in Greeks, and that's the cheese in the light of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u560	You're wrong. First of all, they're not all strangers. They are only those who are not members of the European Union. Because you were saying the same thing about the two-year curriculum, if you remember, last year - exactly the same - and it's free of charge. You said the same thing about the PSA apprenticeship, that it is a farm, that their contributions and so on will not be paid. Why should you say things that do not apply? Here, then, we need to know that there are no tuition fees, because the Constitution is forbidden by others. It's forbidden by the Constitution and you know that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u561	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u562	Here, Mr Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor, but I would ask you not to have an interactive debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u563	As the Minister referred to me personally, we have said very clearly what a tuition is envisaged, regardless of what kind of students are planned, whether they are foreign students from third countries or not. This is a challenge, it is a first stage and the cheese in the light to extend to other students when the Constitution allows it. But there are windows with which you will put the tuition fees and without allowing the Constitution, and that is for sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u564	However, this cannot be done with the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u565	Mr Mitafidis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u566	Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of yesterday's dawn of the military coup and the seven-year-old tyranny to commemorate the memory of fellow teachers - some of them were taken through the class, at the time of the course, to send them to the landslide - but also for one further reason, that the demilitarisation that followed the fall of the dictatorship was accompanied, as you know, by the strong demand of democratisation of education. If anyone reads the minutes of the committee's meetings on the Revision of the Constitution in 1952, he will find very useful ideas which, unfortunately, were not implemented and of course concerned with the democratic planning of education. This perception is a long way from the debate we are having here. It is one of the failures that I would say of the post-population, despite the fact that it opened up the longest period of democratic and social conquests, which were, of course, threatened by the period of the memorandum, from which we recently started dating. I am saying this because, in particular, the Civic Opposition has "spoiled" and this bill with the world's designations. However, I would like to say that you have a short memory, because, unlike your own negativity and zero criticism, the Left, because it had fought on these issues. He also critically supported the Rally reform. And by the way, because today you have come up with an even more conservative turn, you have become linguistically speaking again. In other words, we are accused of undermining the teaching of ancient Greeks, that we have removed texts. I would like to ask you this: Do you consider that it was wrongly introduced in the minimum period of the rule of Georgios Papandreou with the reform Crita the parallel teaching of the ancient Greeks from the original and translation so that they cease, as the anointed Christos Tsolakis said, to be the ancient Greek 'a empty shirt', just to be a formalistic approach to the ancient Greek word, away from its content? And by the way, Mr Javarra, because you leave the left that we are almost enemies of ancient Greeks, to tell you that Marx called the ancient Greeks "natural children of humanity".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u567	His doctoral thesis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u568	Yes, I told you before in a private conversation. There (his thesis) refers to differences between popularity and philosophy. Not to refer you to Volume 38 - he is unfortunately mistranslated in Greek - of the "All of Lenin", which is a real treasure, to see what all these people were studying. For us the best humanity has achieved belongs to our heritage. But now if we haven't been able to make use of it. But that's our idea. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The other thing I would like to say to you is that one of the most popular topics that we wrote in our school years in high school was: "Children are bitter and candy fruits." Unfortunately, however, these "sweet fruits" of education do not taste them today, although with such highly qualified qualifications they have left the country. That's why you're not telling us anything. You say that all this misfortune has hit the place, just as the fans of the "dead effort", the Syrians have risen to power. I would like to remind you of a few things that have to do with the recent history of your paralysis. And because you're so excited that your student resignation first took place in the elections again, can I remind you what happened with the Patras ONNED, which defended those who copied? Did you see SYRIZA's youth doing that? Or the JRC youth? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u569	We erased them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u570	You erased them. You did well. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me remind you of something else: why didn't you apply the Giannakou law to forged degrees, you who are fans of excellence, which we are fighting? What, too, did you do with OELEK's complaints about the thousands of fake diplomas pertaining to private technical training? Many of them with fake degrees are head offices in Thessaloniki right now. And I'm telling you this on the grounds of knowledge. You didn't do anything. But you come here and you snatch that well-known right-wing 'usage' - how can I call it 'other'? - in favour of evaluation, in favour of excellence and that we are supposedly demolished what you have built. Look at something, it is clear that you are fighting backwards and at the ideological level, because all this neoliberal structure of Europe, the Lisbon Agreement, which would become the most competitive region in the world, has resulted in educated people working in conditions of gala in cafeterias, while others are leaving the country and, of course, you, your Chief of State, say that inequality is the normal way of having people, while combating inequality is equilibrium and equilibrium. It's your logic and phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u571	Finish, Mr. Mitafidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u572	I would also like to say to you - not to do the favor - that you of course have proposals. These proposals, however, have nothing to do with the real needs of society and the needs of many. You are in favour of social differentiation. We are against social diversification, not in the sense of equalization, as you say, but because you consider the inequality to be a driving force in society. You are defending the profit and you think that on the altar of competition everything must be sacrificed. One more thing. Look, a basic concept that you have...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u573	Finish, Mr. Mitafidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u574	I'll close here, Mr. President. I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office, if you would like to take this opportunity to express your gratitude to the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. He who talks is a fanatical fan of the planned economy. Of course, we are serving here a regime which, as you know, has nothing to do with this perception and we are trying to correct the indivisible ones many times. So choose: If you want a lesser state, don't ask what you say from the state.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u575	Before we move on to the next speaker, we should consult ourselves on the end of this evening's sitting. With the Bureau we have agreed to go by 23.30. The aim is for the sixty-first to speak on the list, namely, if I'm not mistaken, nine other speakers. All my fellow Members are here and others have been notified, and they are ready to come and talk, so we can go until the sixtieth one and from tomorrow morning to the next. The next speaker is Mr Morfidis Konstantinos from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Morfidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u576	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is particularly important among other things for higher education in our country and indeed very important for the region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace and, of course, for Kavala, which I represent. With the merger of the International University with the TEIs of Central Macedonia, Eastern Macedonia, Thrace and Thessaloniki, the map of higher education is actually established and the necessary institutional and operational rationalisation is carried out. The new scheme will run seven schools in thirty-two departments in six central and eastern Macedonia cities. The seat will be Thessaloniki and nodes Kavala and Serres. This form of joint confession is extremely important. It is important firstly because it promotes the development of technological education, which, after years of struggles and claims, is upgraded to institutional and practical terms, without divisions and categorisations. It is of no importance that the masters of the merged technological institutions point out that the time had long come for the TEI to obtain the same legal framework as the universities, as they already operated as universities. And it is also of great importance that at the same time we are dealing with issues of overlapping scientific fields and professional skills. And this without the abolition of sections, unlike their reorganization. It is also important that by merging the forces of technological regional institutions are united. This is how human capital is exploited and therefore their staff can manipulate their financial and technical services and also student care services. Furthermore, it is important because it contains the possibility of using much more organised and, above all, prudently existing infrastructures. At the same time, a large university institution is set up, which will also have the opportunity to claim and draw up major research programmes with a pragmatic aim. Of course, it is important because it encourages our young people to remain in the region and even more importantly to return to it. Finally, it is of the utmost importance that, through this institution, higher education and research are linked to the local economy. In particular, two research institutes, the Petroleum Institute and the Institute of Tourism and Hosty, are planned to operate in Kavala. Both are expected to serve key and privileged objectives for local society. For these reasons, it is worth wondering why the bill and the Chief are against and some of the local MPs of the Officership. They state they will abolish the schools created by this bill. It is worth wondering, firstly, why the creation of university departments in Kavala is a vision of many years and an interparliamentary demand. Do they now deny it because SYRIZA implements it? Secondly, as the operation of the new scheme is expected to be a lever for development for the region. Do they not want to develop one of the country's most degraded regions? But we won't waste time solving these kind of questions. It is sufficient that Kavala acquires in the academic map of the country the right and that higher education we want and can serve to upgrade knowledge and research and development goals for our country. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be here this evening and to be passed by our Government tomorrow on this bill that solves a huge problem and meets a demand from the Kavala society over many years. And I have to thank the Ministry and the administrations of the educational institutions that have offered the maximum to make this a reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u577	The next speaker is Mr Amanatidis Ioannis from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u578	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by thanking the Ministry of Education's staff for having dealt with the bill, a bill which has been preparing for many months and, of course, the Ministry's political leadership, the Minister of Education and the State Secretary of State who are attending, as well as the Deputy Minister. And I'll explain why. In this Chamber we are old. We are old because we have met the ATHENA project since 2012, a project that the government, with its unique economic criteria, haircut criteria, has merged into schools. The main difference in today's legislation is that it came after dialogue, exhausting I would say, and with the agreement and suggestions of the Departments of TEIs and departments that go to synergies. What is the net difference we have? We believe science has an unbreakable character. You can't have one clean investigation, one type of foundation and another only for its applications. So there is an indissociable character of science, applications and technology. And on the other hand, how are you going to resolve this matter? You solve it with a total re-order. Here, I think, in the last act of reorientation, Minister, of the whole area of higher education, with a view to the future, with a view to creating new strong institutions that will be integrated with demands on the international academic map and, of course, with the strengthening and upgrading of higher education and the social and public character, of course, after dialogue. As far as the International University of Greece is concerned, and in relation to the synergies with the TEI of Central Macedonia, I think it is very important that this integration should be brought together, because it will be able to bring in multiple international cooperation with institutions abroad, which will be properly exploited and selective and create a new network of co-operating institutions at European and international level that will help the new IPAI to acquire a genuinely extroverted character both in education and in research. What I told you is from the explanatory statement. In the face of this argument, what we have heard is cries: 'We have not read', 'you have reached a level of education','management of education', 'the chaos of education'. Remember the "Athens" project for higher education. Remember the policies implemented by 2015, with the underfunding of education, the punishing evaluation - punishing evaluation, I mean - the available resources, with the chaos that was actually in schools and the insecurity that teachers had first and foremost and with the abolition of training. And it is very important, Minister, that after so many years the training centre for teachers is in place. For many years you had abolished it, the Memorandum had abolished it. Of course I'm going to temper and answer that. I told you, Mr Javarra, that you wanted a school where excellent people will go and, through this opportunity, only the excellent ones will go, the poor are given the opportunity, the poor children, to develop their possibilities and to enter this school and, therefore, they are given the opportunity. That is why I told you that it is being cut off by what was called the 'American dream', the American dream, in the sense that everyone has their chances - this illusion - in a system which is deeply unequal and in which the state and the government and Parliament should give not only equal opportunities for all, but also those who are the impossible - and that is our difference - to those who are the poor, the weak from the economic environment, the educational environment, to give them more. That's the difference on the Left. It's not just equal opportunities to everyone. To the weak you have to give a lot more. So we want a public free school, with upgraded education. And I'll borrow a phrase one has said: we want excellent comments for everyone and not just a school for the perfect ones. That's our biggest stuff. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The bill with the acceptance of amendments solves issues which were of many teachers: The issue of irreversible, the issue of primary school directors, the question of the Mathematical Society that he had for Olympiad. Also, many amendments solve injustices. And I should just like to refer to Kilkis, because there is also an amendment from Mr Georgioda in relation to a section going there. Especially for Kilkis, the Ministry of Education solved many years of disease. There was a very good building where the department didn't go. The new division has been solved and, at the moment, the Kilkisiots also have to know that it is not a part of the Central Macedonia TEI, but a part of it is being established, which is, of course, part of the International University of Greece. And I'm closing up with this. We are continuing to reform and I think that we are on the table and are implementing acts of a reform that has never been or has never been completed in our country. We still have a great deal to do in this direction. Greece is just coming out of the crisis. Financial figures and indicators for our country are very good, even if, as you know today, a request has been made, Mr President, so that we can buy debt and pay off debt from the International Monetary Fund. The more they allow us and we move forward in development, the more our care for education will be. Because we believe that education is a lever for growth. Thank you very much, Mr President. Happy birthday to all and good Resurrection!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u579	Mr Constantine Vlasi has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u580	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after you have turned the universities into centres of lawlessness - we have come to have asylum anywhere, apart from within the universities - since you have not allowed the constitutional review of Article 16 on the establishment of non-state universities, you are coming today and you have tombstones to what is most important to us and to the future of our children, namely education. As far as private universities are concerned, we had no doubt, as we know the allergy that you have to do with the private initiative, even though in Greece the world's originality is to recognize the degrees of other universities, other countries, non-State universities, but at the same time, it is not possible for our country to establish non-State universities, so that our children are forced to leave abroad, while at the same time Greece could be a regional higher education centre, attracting considerable investment and creating real thousands of jobs. Your hypocrisy, however, is that in the words you are interested in public education, but you do not allow children of all layers to gain equal opportunities and supplies in their lives, especially in the children of the poorest families. At the same time you, with a more specific example, of course, the Prime Minister and President of SYRIZA, Mr Alexis Tsipras, are sending your children to private schools - and you are doing well - by showing in practice that you do not trust the public education system. So you've been bringing in a bill of indulgence, a few days before Easter, a bill that you've been having a good conversation for two years, even with the urgency procedure. From midnight on Tuesday that passed us by Wednesday at noon when the bill came to Parliament, we had to in some magical way study two hundred and six articles and a thousand hundred and twenty pages. I put aside the amendments that you are bringing us into the way of today. This is not a parliamentary procedure, Minister. This is a trivialisation of the parliamentary process and a pity of the MPs, of the academics, of the students, of the students, of their families. In fact, the failure of the proceedings before it also appears from what the bodies called the hearing have heard and stated. Words and expressions such as "academic coup", "crime", "violation of academic principles", "artificial university" are heard these days by the official bodies opposed to the bill - an abortion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u581	By who?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u582	Reactions from geoponders, from physicotherapists, from the Technical Chamber. Reactions from parents...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u583	What did they say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u584	Don't get upset, Minister. You have heard them better than all these bodies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u585	I ask which bodies did they say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u586	I heard you quietly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u587	Don't interrupt, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u588	There were reactions from their students and parents, who accuse you of treating them as experimental animals. Why, Minister? You admit that the dialogue you have had all this time was, if anything, pretextful. I shall refer in summary to four main points of the draft law. You are effectively abolishing the country's TEIs and merge them with the IEIs. You remove the technological field of higher education by downgrading degrees and schools. Proceed to the polytechnicization of the Departments of Engineering by multiplying the relevant sections and increasing the number of graduates over-period. Do you realize what damage you're going to do to the already afflicted engineering industry? As far as the pan-Hellenic examinations are concerned, you create free access sections and access sections only with pan-Hellenic examinations. What do you actually do? You see schools in those who maintain increased prestige and those who are completely deceived. Two-speed students! And as far as experimental schools are concerned - what else? - It's equilibrium with everything else, as always down. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll come to my place, specifically the University of Peloponnese. The Senate of the University of Peloponnese itself accuses you of ignoring the proposals of the Ministry of Education's Committee to investigate the forms of cooperation between the University and the Peloponnese TEI. The whole world wonders why you have not accepted the joint committee proposal that you, Minister, have set up with the University of Peloponnese. Why didn't you hear the opposition from the Senate? We are dealing with an anti-democratic process, with a 'decide and order' attitude, with a draft clipboard, of which no substantial dialogue has taken place. Show us the feasibility and viability studies for the University of Peloponnese, as at least you have imagined them. Minister, we do not accept the incorporation of the School of Technology Applications of TEI of Western Greece at the University of Peloponnese. It's over and over! You need to understand this and cancel your plans, which will degrade and make it vulnerable in the future. Things are simple. A combination of equal problems and deterioration.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u589	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u590	Mr President, I will not abuse time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u591	You've been talking for six and a half minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u592	I'll be out in a minute. I was interrupted twice by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u593	You speak six and a half minutes and I didn't interrupt you. I'm not interrupting you in the sense that I'm closing your microphone. Is that bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u594	The Minister interrupted me, though. I'll be done in a minute. The people of Arcadia need to know, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u595	Don't worry, they're learning. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u596	Of course, in the proposal from the Peloponnese University for the immediate establishment of a Polytechnic School based in Tripoli, there is, anyway, an infrastructure there and it is something that can be implemented, it is not in the words - all you do is whistle indifferently. Admit it! You consciously degrade the University of Peloponnese. As far as the creation of the Veterinary and Nursing School is concerned, we obviously also want it, but not on paper, Minister. What you do is set up departments - schools, without any programming, schools and departments that are not going to work. You remind me, unfortunately, of the inauguration made by the Prime Minister a few months ago in Thessaloniki on the metro of Thessaloniki on mosamades. That's what you're doing today. Once again you underestimate the intelligence of the Greeks, you underestimate the intelligence of the Arcadians. You have no vision, no education strategy. But the worst part is that what you do today has a significant impact on many people's tomorrow. Your broken ones will be called to pay for them by others who have done nothing. The New Democracy has a vision for education, because it has a vision for our children. And as a university teacher, I know the goodwill that can be produced through the Greek universities. You, unfortunately, have carried out tests and failed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u597	Mr. Theodore Dritsas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u598	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make one comment. The speech we have just heard is predictable, identical to what we have heard since the morning and with what we have heard. In the past, when we were kids at school, we used to call that a "people's pig". That's what this is about. It is a'snapshot'. No thoughts, no personal deepening, no search, no reservation. The doubt is the dignity of thought, Hobbsbaum says. And we're talking about education. Yes, but that is the requirement for the representatives of society in Parliament, to be targeted, set up and not to copy "flatsour" identical objections, pick-ups, not in the sight of a discussion in the Greek Parliament, but a line on telepaths. That's what this is about. I am looking for and I find one reason - in fact, colleagues of the major opposition or of the other parties, you have not convinced me, sometimes you convince me - why you are applying for a roll-call vote. Why are you doing this bill? Are you doing this to tell the world that SYRIZA is destroying education and all this? Well, don't the Greek people know, don't families know that the Third High School isn't working now? Don't we know education's flattened? Don't we know there's no real search for solutions to children's education? I shall also refer to that. Indeed, on the part of the JRC, I understand how to raise the question of funding. We, in our youth period, claimed 15% for education. Is that a deceptive dream? It's not a deceptive dream. It is the largest investment for every society and every state. There is indeed a need for serious and planned funding for education and health, of course, and for other such issues. But to God! Do we not have the possibility of designing and criticising them into a materialistic approach? Yeah, but what are we gonna do with dialectics? Where are we going to take her to assess correlations, data, issues that are raised in a complex way? I wonder why, in this effort, so many years ago, the search for an upgrade of the role of the educational system has been said a lot and a lot. Neoliberalism, ladies and gentlemen, has brought 'the labour market'. When he first heard, he was a neo-liberal. The concept of a labour market is now considered to be a very specific one. Along with the labour market, he also brought the education he must produce not educated people, but suitable "writings" for the appropriate specific activities, and that says "link to production". It's not the connection to production. This is the use of state budgets, that is, the wealth of every society and the Greek people in favour of the few, at the service of the few. You're swinging your head, but it seems you need to think about a lot of things. This era of neoliberalism, however, has shown that nowhere has it been able to lead to a solution to the issues, and these neoliberal dogmas are now being challenged internationally. Where all European and American universities were oriented into neoliberal dogmas, it now begins after one another to question them, to change the data and to create serious doubts about them. It begins to raise the subject of the overall educational process that makes people fully, who have the ability to really have the right to their professional identity, i.e. to be doctors and always be doctors, to be engineers and to be not always engineers, and not to be qualified to such an extent that for two years they have to work in one sector and then have to change their profession, to do other training to obtain another scientific and professional identity. This is the development you are evangelizing. And since developments in Greece always come ten to twenty years later, you now come to defend what America and Europe are trying to change. Read just - I conclude, Mr President - the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament. The labels he makes are very characteristic, precisely about how the 2001 Act led to structure separately of higher education and the technology sector in two parallel distinct areas that do not meet them. And he's coming here now to try, at just these two levels, to find the point that they can not just coexist on a parallel vague path, but to interact, interact, interact, interact, interact, influence and form exactly complex derivatives of educated people who can also specialize and generalize to have personality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u599	You're short, Mr. Dritsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u600	Is that what you're talking about? Finally, answer what suggestions you have to reborn and relive with sufficient high school. Say a proposal for High School III. You're over it. Nobody's talked about it. And consider whether the Chiato TEI will be with the TEI in Arcadia, etc., to get pins from worried parents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u601	That's good, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u602	What about us? You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u603	That is what this is all about, ladies and gentlemen. That's how you degrade it. You have not talked about these complex issues at all. I heard nothing but that kind of argument. I will stay here to listen to the others, to see what else you will have to contribute, except for the 'populous porphyry'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u604	Mr Kyriazidis Dimitris from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u605	Mr. Drizza, we've been talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u606	You and me? We've always talked.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u607	And you know very well that I was in dilemma too many times when we were government and I got to the point of deletion. Fortunately, I did not succumb to this temptation, which I unfortunately wanted to see believed, positive, honest. Finally, otherwise things ended up and they're much worse than what I might have expected. As an emergency, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Education presented today's bill for discussion. With only one meeting in the relevant Committee of Parliament, the Minister for Religious Affairs has today debated and voted a large week. Luckily he didn't come on Friday. SYRIZA's constant tactic on issues of the utmost importance, like the education...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u608	It's a big week.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u609	I'm saying, thank God, he didn't bring it on the Great Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u610	What's the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u611	No problem for you. When one is an atheist, he doesn't care if it's a big Tuesday or a big Wednesday or a big Friday. I'm saying that to get to know each other. As the Minister of Religion, I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u612	We'll make our cross with what you're saying now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u613	Please don't interfere. No dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u614	So, on such issues of the utmost importance, national content, like the issues of education, you are applying your usual practice. Unfortunately, we'spray, wipe, finish'. Or "Gabroglu, give it all"! That's the reality. There have so far been twenty-five amendments, fifteen or sixteen by Members for the creation of new sections. Terrible! What are you talking about? And they were all accepted. That's what the Minister did. So what do we say? "Give it all"!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u615	Since...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u616	Isn't that the reality? Isn't that what the Minister did? What are you talking about? What do we do? That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u617	When the Left does it, it's good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u618	And you know? When we had issues with "ATHENA", she said it and the colleague, she said it before, you weren't...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u619	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u620	When the issue of the "ATHENA" bill came for you were reacting to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u621	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u622	Mr. Cryazides, don't mention yourself personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u623	Of course, and we came to a point of deletion. And you adopt everything. All out of the way! I believe that by tomorrow we will have further amendments accepted by the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u624	Is that what you cared about? Slow down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u625	Easy, okay. I agree, Minister. Don't worry. It's the sleep of the law. Okay, well done. The content of the bill reflects and directly affects the Law of Drama, as the provisions also concern the departments of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. According to this bill, forty schools and departments are created which are part of the International University based in Thessaloniki. This university was set up in 2005 and operates as an independent and fully self-governing higher education institution with an international distinguishing name. The International University has the task of providing higher education, especially to foreigners who are interested in studying in Greece. In order to achieve its mission, he organises and implements undergraduate and postgraduate courses using English teaching. Now that the connection's stuck? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, your tolerance. The attempt, through the bill, to merge - absorption of the TEI of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace in the International was artificially drunk by the Minister of Education, who offered a few gifts for an appeal. While every reasonable person would expect the project to include the merger of this TEI, as happened in other regions of the country, at the Democritus University, it is unfortunately being driven and built toward the International University based in Thessaloniki. In other words, to date, the practice and practice of mergers - despite the reactions that existed, where they existed - has only been followed in eastern Macedonia and Thrace. And they're born in question. In addition, a committee was set up by the Minister of Education. Strangely enough, he excluded the participation, in the attempted alteration of the TEIs, from the Democritus University. The President of the Executive Committee of the International University, Mr. Written, did react to this exercise, of course. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Also, the whole project that had ideological features, politically and educationally, is an irresponsible idea when attempting to be unique in the world. This unregulated provision of the country's academic map has also been condemned by the Independent Quality Assurance Authority, unfortunately or happily. This is why the President was replaced by the adviser to the Minister of Education. The Minister mentioned him earlier. The fact that the absorption mergers have been carried out and carried out without academic criteria, without feasibility studies, without taking into account the results of evaluations and, of course, without care for the professional rights of graduates, this proves and is reflected in the content of the legislation already adopted. Likewise, sections of the same cognitive objects are created. I'm on my way. I'm not talking about PPC members. He said the Minister would be five hundred. But the General Accounting Office says, I have no such decision on the possibility of operating.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u626	But I don't understand what you're saying with the State General Accounting Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u627	Of course, you're not going to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u628	I don't understand what you're saying with the State General Accounting Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u629	Yeah, yeah, I'll tell you exactly. If you want, I'll tell you exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u630	Come on, Mr. Cryazides, we've already reached seven minutes. Please finish. So you understand that, finish your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u631	All right, Mr. President. I need you to tell me why you're abolishing the Drama Landscape Department? This section is intended to produce and promote the development and transmission of knowledge in science, technology and techniques applied to the Architecture of the Landscape and to natural environment projects through teaching and applied research, in order to provide students with the necessary facilities to ensure their proper training for their scientific and professional career, development and perspective. There's no other School or Department of Landscape Architecture in the country. The graduates of this section, as well as the corresponding sections of other countries, find direct access to the labour market in Greece and abroad, as long as there is a great demand in this field of science. There is an object of teaching staff and teaching tools in this section.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u632	Mr. Cryazides, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u633	The presence of the branch in Drama's border town has only positive to offer the local society. And it will undoubtedly have to remain while we have seen that a number of other sections are being created, Mr Phile, Mr SYRIZA's rapporteur. And of course there is anxiety among the students, who developed, Mr. Friend, and before the Minister. Indeed, they say "avoid this Golgotha" and, if you like, call on the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u634	Mr. Cryazides, and with this, you're done. We'll turn off the microphone. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u635	They appealed to the Minister so that the department would remain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u636	Until they get a degree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u637	We are waiting, Minister, for this development.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u638	Good. Come on, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u639	And then it's abolished? Is it something that's no good?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u640	We'll get to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u641	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u642	There's in the recital...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u643	Because you referred to the General Accounting Office of the State...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u644	But now will dialogue be held with the Minister and anyone flying underneath, Mr. Cryazides? Please! Nine minutes you've been talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u645	We waited for so many minutes, Mr. President, 11 o'clock, you brought us back to say, and we're...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u646	Remove one minute from the total time you were interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u647	In any case, Minister, the General Accounting Office of the State states sincerely that there is no annual expenditure on the operation of the new schools and departments. And that cannot be calculated. And you're talking to us about five hundred new members of the LPD. I conclude, Minister. You are also abolished from the Democritus University of Law School. You're smiling, and you're welcome to smile, aren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u648	Excuse me, Mr. Cryazides, but did you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u649	Mr. Cryazides, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u650	I don't know if you have an empire in eastern Macedonia and Thrace.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u651	Mr. Miriazides, you're going to make me turn you off your microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u652	Turn it off, Mr. President. On the other hand, the Minister can't make fun of us and smile here because...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u653	Ten minutes you've been talking in the Chamber. I gave you ten minutes. How much tolerance can the Bureau show? Excuse me now, can't we come to an agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u654	...by his decision, it's the fate of the students. After all, the country's President-in-Office stressed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u655	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u656	Thank you, Mr. Friend you recognize. It's right. But on the other hand, I told the Minister this. In Crete you also create a third university, you have now transformed it as "Medical Greek" rather than "Crete".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u657	That's enough, we got it, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u658	And I told you, why don't you create a second University of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace? And you say, is it possible, two universities in eastern Macedonia and Thrace?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u659	All right, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u660	And I'm telling you, why don't you create a new university, autonomous in eastern Macedonia and Thrace, so that it can include the technological training of this region?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u661	Mr. Cryazides, get off the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u662	Five million were given to the TEI from the region where it was regionally and administratively owned. The Minister does not understand that. He made his own cooking. He threatened, blackmailed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u663	Mrs Katsavria - Chryssoloula from SYRIZA has the floor. But you are not helping the Bureau, are you? So what are we gonna do? Are we going to yell out of the Bureau all the time? I think that you, too, can reach agreement and impose time, even with some tolerance. Come on, Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u664	Thank you, Mr President. Madam and Minister, ladies and gentlemen, everyone who is parents with children who have studied or studied in high school has felt the great difficulties and concerns of our children in order to ensure their introduction to higher education. In the third and second grades, pupils, as true spiritual workers, are laboring and exhausting, as admission to the university is a one-way and firm choice for the average Greek family. We are proud that our people have recognized the value of things and in their consciousness the Greek education has been established, but it was such our zeal, not only because we believe in spiritual progress, but mainly because we sought the recognition of a high economic and social profile of specific schools and professions. This zeal imposed on children sixteen and seventeen years old to be in a school class or nursery for at least sixty - five hours a week, without computing the study hours. The many lessons considered with the few hours of instruction at the public school were not sufficient to meet the high goals of the large proportion of students. Medium-education schools have been in place for many decades to replace the public school, not only in cognitive objects and the test material, but also in essence. The student cannot be located ten to twelve hours a day in one class. He had to choose and choose the tutorial, in the hope that this would ensure his success in the pan-Hellenics. The decaying picture of most of our country's high school shows students who are indifferent, often sleepy, to discredit the work of their teachers, even the most skilled. The child is not bothered to evaluate the quality of teaching. He entered high school, knowing that only with a good instruction and personal reading will it work. We re-establish High School III in its essence and restore the normality and balance that has been lost in public school, students and their families. We increase the teaching hours of the courses under examination. We allow middle-education teachers to have time to organize their teaching and regain their authority. We reduce the courses under examination so that students can choose high-demand schools and be able to manage their human material. Six hours at school a week for each lesson is time too long for the tradition and insight of new knowledge. We have already established and upgraded technological education. Our society must understand that technical professions are not lacking in academic capacity. We upgraded the PSAs and the TEIs. Now, with the establishment of CEDs, we are completing the smooth functioning of technological education in Greece, which will meet international standards, will serve the economy and sustainable development to overcome the taboo of manual work that characterizes us as a society. Higher education is growing organisationally and economically, and this is more than necessary in an international environment that is moving at a rapid pace, with rapid developments in technology, intense mobility, growing competition worldwide. The paths of the past need to be overcome and its role should be redefined and successful in meeting the challenges posed for the economic and social development of our country. As far as GIS is concerned, we all know that they hide an inexhaustible treasure of evidence that rescues the evolution and history of the public administration of the Greek state. The high task of restoring and classifying important archives is cancelled if it is not exploited, if it is not channelled to society, the academic area and the citizen. We upgrade the GAECs, precisely because we recognize that they manage a neural part of the history of the modern Greek state. We believe that the upgraded role attributed to them by this bill will revive local societies, researchers and students and ensure their continuity and development. I close, ladies and gentlemen, in the belief that the issues of education must unite us, rather than divide us, as political forces and as representatives of Greek society. The temptation to differentiate for ideological or political reasons is, of course, great, especially now that we are in the middle of a pre-election period. But if prudence and the public interest, in the broadest sense, are to be found the necessary shocks, which our children will get rid of, in order to be part of a truly modern creative and democratic school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u665	The next speaker is Mr Kasapidis George from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u666	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Dritsa, you said you'd stay and hear that a colleague would be differentiated. I say to you, therefore, because I see you leaving, that I am coming positively into this bill, just because in my special homeland, in Kosani, and more generally in western Macedonia, it seems like a board of salvation or any public intervention in investment, such as such a public university. In such a poor, so problematic, such a difficult region is an intervention that seems to create a certain prospect. But that is the first reading. I want to be critical, but with fertile criticism, so that we can reach agreement in this Chamber, at least on a number of key issues such as education. We have here an ex-wife and a current Minister for Education. A public exhaustive dialogue should have taken precedence, which should lead to key objectives relating to education - to say it simply - and to the apprenticeship of the Greeks to goods. If we do not give the good example that we agree here on what is self-evident, as representatives of the Greeks, as the most representative and best of all the Greek citizens have to choose on these issues, then what messages are we going through? You said before about these knowledge-producing institutions that help to better organise society and progress. So here are my first objections. The Ministry of Education itself, when it started this attempt on this draft law, at least in the case of western Macedonia, submitted an initial proposal for eleven, twelve, thirteen sections. He now concluded the draft law to have twenty-one sections plus five. That is good for Western Macedonia. However, it shows a sloppyness, an irreorganization and a lack of seriousness and initial aiming by the Ministry itself for where he wants to take tertiary education in general in the country and in particular in every region, as he did the distribution. So, because there was also a background in the whole process before we came up with this draft law - I always talk about western Macedonia - it seems that there are no such quality characteristics, at least in the Ministry's leadership, which would guarantee that the intentions are pure and good and not just before the elections to pass on other messages. I want to explain that as follows. He resisted the original proposal for eleven sections in the new scheme, at the new University of Western Macedonia, which would result from the merger of the TEI of Western Macedonia with the University of Western Macedonia, was the dean of the TEI of Western Macedonia, who had been elected to this position with a large, huge, more than 70%. This man, unfortunately, is a member of the Committee on Integration and Transition to the new pattern of TEI professors who will be evaluated by this committee and chaired by a Quaestor and below, Minister, you are well behind the same dean of Western Macedonia. If this is not a bias or anxiety - I do not want to say that it is empathy - against a man who resisted your original proposal and who also forced you to reach the sections in western Macedonia at twenty-five plus five in the future, that is, twenty-six, then what is it? This does not show these quality traits that you have sought, and we are all looking for them, and unfortunately the Ministry itself is being expelled. I would also like a few more points. I always say that I am going positively to this draft law because it gives something, a public intervention in the poorest region of the country. Unfortunately, money and staff are not budgeted, Minister, on how to function and how the new departments will be deployed at the new University of Western Macedonia. Also, there are no such forecasts to work smoothly this year that new schools will be introduced into the computers and students will be introduced into the new departments, and unfortunately we face this huge risk in western Macedonia - and you understand it as an academic - that corresponding schools with those that have been set up at the University of Western Macedonia, economics, mathematics, exist in other universities that are more historical and more organised. So we fear - and this fear is expressed by the academic community and also by the students - that many students will leave with many translations and that these departments will be denounced from the first year of operation, because it was not precisely the prediction that they should be organised properly from the beginning. Also, there are one-stop schools at the new University, and you understand that this actually undermines them in their operation and one of them is Georgian - I happen to be a geoponist in the profession. There are some objections to how many agricultural schools we will do all over Greece, we had enough. Perhaps they did not need it, but even now that this Agronomician, which upgrades the TEI of Western Macedonia as one-stop crop, I am afraid, Mr Minister, that it will not stand up and pass the wrong messages, no matter how good your original intentions were. I also wanted to point out that the original forecast you had made at country level seems unconnected and unscheduled without a central objective, which says what? This is also the question that raises both the questions and the objections on the part of the New Democracy and the objections made by colleagues, Mr Dritsa, are justified, claiming that in other regions a number of more powerful factors have claimed and taken more parties. While in the case of western Macedonia through these injustices that I have told you, it appears that while others had originally agreed with the Minister, the academic community, there are serious interference, I do not know what factors have altered the original nature of the agreement. That's what the academic community says and you've been told.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u667	Mr. Kasapidis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u668	A change and dispersal of schools from the prefectures to individual prefectures in western Macedonia...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u669	What did the academic community say exactly?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u670	Please, Mr. Gavroglou, don't do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u671	The most focused are schools with the departments, and let them be distributed to all four regional units. I'm telling you a few points. I would like to see this effort positively, because I say to you that I see it as an intervention in the poorest region of the country, which can have a positive impact, but only if it has a content. Unfortunately, Minister, the proposal you make only has the writing. Content in terms of staffing, as far as direct activation is concerned, to the extent that a university should operate from day one, you have not predicted it and I am afraid that this will unfortunately depreciate the entire effort and any structure and infrastructure set up. This will be twice disastrous because some money will be spent, even lately, but the students will now be gone and the original idea will be devalued. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u672	Thank you, Mr. Kasapidi. Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis has the floor from SYRIZA, who is the last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u673	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if I had to put a title in the mutation of the opposition speech of the New Democracy I would not find it more appropriate than "when the ostrich ends up in hysteria", as the New Democracy started with opposition odor to re-establish it and then four years later because of its hesitant syndrome it turned into hysteria. The opposition hysteria of the New Democracy, which is displayed in every field of public life, reveals its political poverty, and most obviously, its bourgeoisie for the re-enforcement of a system condemned to the conscience of the people is unequivocally stated. Since one could consider these findings as a result of a political controversy, I will give concrete figures on a specific subject in this regard in education. The Minister of Education, conscious of social and historical responsibility, boldly and decisively proceeded with the draft law under discussion in the redesign of the academic map. This redesign goes through the practice of the TEI synergies with the universities. The project was based, as it were, on exhaustive dialogue both with the members of the academic community and with local communities, dialogue long-term and painful, as often conflicting demands had to be reconciled so that his acquired would leave a positive scientific and social synonym. The Ministry was not left to improvisations. He took advantage of the European academic practice by adopting the terms and commitments resulting from the previous dialogue. The beginning was with the establishment of the University of Western Attica. The establishment of this university meant the debt of a left-wing government which respects its principles and values attempted to alleviate social inequalities, with the ultimate aim of upgrading a society of neglected people in a completely degraded area. I'm coming to us. Ladies and gentlemen, all my fellow citizens are convinced that our city, Kavala, should be regarded as the city of lost opportunities. These missed opportunities also focus on the area of her academic upgrading. Promises, commitments and mappings on the desired upgrade were given and made alternately by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, but they remained promises. Result: Distinguished for the production of scientific work sections for decades have been trapped because of the lack of interest of governments, who otherwise had excellence as their flag. Ladies and gentlemen, it is excellent to try consistently and continuously so as to make it better and not with a marked social deck to render a Priori excellence to the excellent hatchers in the grand living room. The government, giving content to the notion of excellence through exhaustive scientific dialogue, opened with the academic community and local institutions since February 2018, has now come to a happy outcome of the International University's creation by merging the TEIs of Eastern Macedonia, Thrace, Central Macedonia and Thessaloniki. Let's see some of the elements of this project. It is the third largest university in the country, after Aristotleion Thessaloniki and Kapodistrian Athens, with thirty-six thousand students. The creation of this large university with annexes to the cities where TEIs now operate gives impetus to academic research and strengthens local communities. The new university is aimed at both the Greek and the international environment and provides Greek and foreignlanguage programs of undergraduate, postgraduate and doctoral studies, as well as two and two lifelong training and updating programs, respectively. For the characteristics of the International University, I would refer you to the destructive statement made by the colleague of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriazides. I do not want to abuse the time because I think my colleague, my coordinator, was extremely detailed in mapping this new reality created through the synergy of the International University with the three TEIs. In short, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said before, if the real role of the university is to shape in the real sense, contribute to innovation and make our democracy more rich, then the new structure of the Ministry of Education is in the right direction to achieve its objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that I was amazed at the reactions of the Opposition, as regards the attempted changes to the third grade of general high school. The committee was heard by colleagues of the New Democracy and the Change Movement a requiem for the lost paradise of general education. Where do the enthusiasts live in a system that has been squeezing its own remnants for decades? The III high school had turned into a ghost class where the students were outside the halls and the instructors were "teaching" with a voice of oxen in the wilderness.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u674	Mr. Emmanuelides, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u675	I'll need half a minute to close up, Mr. President. This educational morbidity comes to cure the bill, as it ensures general education up to the second grade, while in the third grade the teacher will have more time for effective support for students and for real education. This self-evidently restricts the need to take refuge in the care centres, which is why we have been denounced by the caregivers. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill to be passed, our Government is tabling to society its political and social will to create an educational system free of the destructive choices of the New Democracy that wanted education as the prerogative of an economic elite. That's why her blind opposition mob. But we came to stay to heal the social wounds that the policies of neoliberalism have created for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u676	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-22-S1-commons.u677	With the consent of the House at 23.43' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 23 April 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continued discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Science and TEI Synergy, access to higher education, experimental schools, General Archives of the State and other provisions".
