ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 4-4-2019, the minutes of its PRACTICAL sessions of Thursday, 4 April 2019, with regard to the vote in the entire draft law of the Minister of State: "Recommendation, establishment and responsibilities of the Central Codification Committee and other provisions".]] Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the debate of topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, let me tell the House on Monday 8 April 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 462/1-4-2019 by MP Pireos of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The situation in the Piraeus DIA is disappointing". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 454/27-3-2019 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Bagou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "No arrest in Corinth, where Roma groups carried out violence." 3. The 451/26-3-2019 topical question by MP MEP I of the Central Association, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: 'Regulating personnel issues of the Fire Corps'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 461/1-4-2019 by MP Trikala of the New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Skrekas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Healthy hotel businesses are at risk of "liquette" on account of VAT charging". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 439/22-32019 by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy Mr Christos Stakouras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Proceedings of the Greek State on loans granted to private enterprises and natural disaster victims". 3. The question by No 440/22-32019 of the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister for Health, on the question of "Addressing serious outstanding issues concerning the adoption of special treatments". 4. The Question No 430/19-32019 by Independent MP II of Athens Efstathios (Stathhi) Panagoulis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "By chemical and trabucism, they tried to dismantle the peaceful palal rally for Macedonia in the Constitution." 5. Question No 416/12-3-2019 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "True shortages of staff at Kilkis Hospital". 6. The Question No 414/8-32019 by the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Koutsoukouou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Procedures for medals at the expense of the services provided with the residual Pathological Clinic of the Amalada Hospital". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by number 421/12-3-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In suspension the Surgery Clinic of the General Hospital of Kilkis due to lack of staff". 8. The question raised by Mr Athanasios Vardalis on "The Greek Vehicle Industry (ELVO ABE)" under number 420/12-3-2019. 9. The question by No 375/20-2-2019 that was raised by MP II of the Democratic Integration Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Involvement of Greece in the European Union's defence cooperation". 10. The 355/12-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance about the "providing the real estate to a Public Property Company (ETAD)". 11. The Question No 350/11-2-2019 by Mr Georgios Vlachos and Mr Georgios Vlachos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘The Support Account of the National Bank of Greece (LEPETE)’. 12. The 351/11-2-2019 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association, Mr Ioannis Koutsoukou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the Supreme Court as demanded by the lenders of fifty of the public buildings in the Municipality of Pyrgos". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 316/29-1-2019 topical question by MP Laconia of Democratic Integration Mr Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Datements in the crossing of patients from the EKA in Intensive Treatment Units due to the lack of medical personnel". 14. Observed. The 332/5-2-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on "the chronic problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PANGN)". 15. The 329/4-2-2019 topical question by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Creation of the Bran Branch of Hospital / Oncological Clinic at the General Hospital of Drama”. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The 322/4-2-2019 topical question by Congressman Larisa of Democratic Incorporation Mr Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Recalculations of chemical treatments'. 17. The Question No 262/9-1-2019 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Emergent need to increase the military service". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 1867/25-9-2018 question by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Finance, on the protection of the traditional settlement - historical site Kampos Chios and its surroundings from excessive taxation and landfill. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 2932/31-10-2018 question by MP II of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The release of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium "Vision 2nd High School" by Agia Varvaras from the Supreme Court." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In today's topical and urgent debate, only one question will be discussed. First, however, let me announce some of the topical questions that will not be discussed. The third, with number 467/2-24-2019, topical question by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Catherine Iglezi, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Behavioural infringements following the current environmental legislation and the approved environmental conditions of the Common Ministerial Decision on Environmental Terms (CDE) by the company "Greek Gold" will not be discussed due to an impediment by Ms. MP. The second question, under number 464/1-4-2019, is the first question of the New Democracy MP, Charalambopos Athanasiou, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "Inhumane and degrading for Lesvos and Greece, the current situation in the Centre for the Reception of Moria" will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member. The first question under number 469/2-24-2019 of the first cycle of the Athens Congress of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Readers of major hydroelectric power stations", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the honourable Member. The sixth question under number 450/26-32019 is a timely question from the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Stop the installation of wind parks in the mountainous peaks of the Agraphs", will not be discussed as a result of the intervention of the MP. The seventh question, number 438/22-32019, is a second question for the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Changes in PPC tariffs', will not be discussed due to the impediment of the honourable Member. The third with number 457/1-4-2019 will now be discussed in the third time question of the first cycle of the MP Argolidas of Democratic Integration Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To settle directly the debts of the Local Improvement Agency (TEV) Ionian-Asine-Drepanus". In this timely question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Stathakis. Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Today is a historic day for Argolida. It is the first time in the history of democracy that the entire Chamber of Parliament is dedicated to Argolida, and I hope that the Minister present, with the answers he will give us, will improve this very positive climate for the three villages on which my timely question refers. Madam President, with a little tolerance from you, listen to a story of madness, insanity: the local Ionian-Medias-Asine Illustrations Agency. They are three villages in Argolida that water with irrigation network and consume electricity. How much did the farmers of these TWGs owe in January 2015? They owed PPC only 163,000 euros. How much did the same people owe themselves in the middle of 2018? They owed 930,000 euros. After many attempts this debt was reduced to EUR 600,000. We are coming here five months ago to the national Parliament. In his honor, the present Minister accepted the proposal that I made to him to repay TWG's debts. What did we say? To pay TWGs another 10%, they undertake to pay back normally in time, all current accounts and the remaining debt to be settled in fifty instalments. The Minister accepted our proposal and we celebrated in these three villages that it is indeed a good answer to the problem. This is where paranoia begins. Logically, in a week or two, PPC should implement the Minister's commitment to call the TWGs and say: "Come to agree to sign a contract." Today we are talking about no contract has been signed, there has been virtually no meeting, and there is also the "candy on the cake". I am constantly asking timely questions to inform the Minister that his commitment is not being implemented. Today we are scheduled to discuss our current question here. After five months, just yesterday, day Thursday, PPC agreed to call at a meeting in Tripoli in the wider Peloponnese region and said: "Yes, we will sign this agreement, but..." And this is where the culmination of insanity begins: these people, in these five months, implementing the Minister's commitment, were paying off their bills, and furthermore, they put the extra money on the supposed repayment instalment of the debt they would pay, if they had signed the agreement with PPC, that is, they would normally pay their instalment. However, I do not know what, not only does PPC see, they normally pay for the debt, but it also puts them late and in the past five months, these people have been charged with another EUR 14,000 extra interest on late payments. So we say yesterday at PPC: "Children, even with a delay of five months to implement the decision, but obviously because we have paid you the instalments that we were supposed to have agreed, do not charge us and interest on late." "No" says PPC. "You will pay both instalments and interest on late." Minister, because I am sure that common sense exists in all of us, what do we ask of you? First, order PPC's commitment to do it immediately, as well as to do what we have requested for the TWGs of all of Greece. Madam President, they are four hundred TWGs throughout Greece, which are three hundred thousand Greek farmers. It is a huge problem that needs to be resolved. So, first of all, PPC must implement your commitment to the fifty instalments of TWG Iron - Breathe - Asine and secondly, PPC should not charge interest on late payments for the money that this TWG has already given it. I hope that your answer, Minister, will be positive in the direction I have described. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u4	I will start by saying that the issue, as you know, has evolved into a very big problem, due to the increased TWG debts to PPC. Let me remind Mr Manatis that the increase in electricity prices for TWGs in your term of office has almost doubled, and this has now created a great pressure on TWGs, as the electricity price has doubled and has created, I repeat, in your period, 2012, 2013 and 2014, a different economic given to TWGs. The TWGs have differentiated behaviour from 2015 to the present day. I will say two categories: Firstly, it is the TWGs who cooperated and made arrangements with PPC. In this case in your region, this arrangement was made by TWG Iron and is maintained. The debts of this TWG have been reduced from EUR 800,000 to about EUR 550,000 and we have a favourable regime of regulation and agreement. On the contrary, in your region again, at the same time, while total debts should have been reduced, GEOV Akronapylia appears to have increased the debt and even reached 2.5 million. In the Peloponnese there is a more general problem with the TWGs. It is the area where they have the largest debts to PPC and I welcome PPC's initiative to meet with the Peloponnese TWGs in order to find a mutually acceptable solution, which will settle the debt on the best possible terms. I repeat, the most consistent TWGs, who have made a great effort and have regulated and complied with the arrangements, must certainly be facilitated, unlike TWGs that are non-cooperative, have not come into contact with regulation and, at the same time, every year this problem resurrects. I'll close by referring to interest on late payments. They're not illegal. They are provided for in the Electricity Supply Code, as revised in March 2013 by a Ministerial Decision, which says that if the consumption account is not repaid within the set deadline, the supplier shall make available to put interest. The legal interest on late payment is defined in a particular way. In fact, I am recapitulating - I think it is good for the whole of the TWG to be put into regulation. Secondly, we welcome an initiative to find a framework of understanding for the whole of the Peloponnese, which I repeat has the greatest debt to PPC in relation to other regions of the country. And in this case, we have very positive examples, such as TWG Iron. We have reservations about the Acronaupoli GEOV, which should appear much more active in finding solutions that are mutually acceptable to PPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Elementary School of Nea Raidestos Thessaloniki. We welcome you to Athens and the Greek Parliament! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Today we do not have much presence, because it is a parliamentary procedure and there is only one question for debate, and that is why there is not much participation. Mr. Maniotis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u6	Minister, if I were SYRIZA, I would tell you that you were a liar, because you lied to me that during our term of office the electricity was doubled. But because I'm not, SYRIZA, I'm telling you that you've been misled. Electricity in farmers and throughout Greece has not increased. Where there were few increases of 2% or 3%, they were mandatory, and in any case there were reductions, especially in fixed assets for windscreens and other cases. Ask your partners, because I hope you are not lying at all, that you have been given the wrong information. Secondly, I accept responsibility for the whole of my region, for the entire Argolida Prefecture and for all the Argolida farmers whom I represent. Indeed, here, on this occasion, you have again been misled, to answer kindly, Minister. GEOV Argolidas - GEB for non-knowledge is the whole, the body that coordinates the Local Improvement Agency in each county - at the beginning of 2015 owed PPC about 1,000,000 euros. In the middle of 2018 he owed - the same people - to see the irrationality of your own government, 2,800,000 euros. They are the same people, the same farmers, the same producers. Looking in the mirror of your policy, Minister, to see why the people themselves are more than double their debts to PPC during your own governance. Thirdly, as a parliamentary group in your Democratic Incorporation we have made a request because the TWG debt problem is universal. It is all about TWGs and I must tell you that I do not accept - I have already shown it to you - that the farmers of Argolida are more inconsistent than the farmers of the rest of Greece. What is true throughout the rest of Greece is true in Argolida, and even the Argolida farmers have shown that they are much more consistent than many others. We, therefore, as a Group of the Democratic Alliance, have tabled a request with our question, where we are asking, because it is a huge problem, that the doses should not be fifty - that I only ask you for Argolida - but that it should be a hundred and twenty, such as what your Government is negotiating now, is supposedly a heroic fighter for red loans. So I want your answer to that too. And I conclude, Madam President, with this. To be serious, do you tell the people of Argolida, of the three TWGs, that they were normally paying the dose, and because PPC slipped, lost, had useless people in it, would the people who normally paid their dose pay interest? Mr. Minister, to be serious, I understand your government, Mr. Tsipras, pulling selfies with Zaev and so on, pretending to be the great politician. But people's lives are here, landed in reality. Will you return and tell the farmers of these three villages: 'You were consistent with your instalments, but I, because I think you will also pay me interest for the money you have already given me'? Madam President, I think, in order to close - and I thank you for your tolerance - that this debate cannot continue. It's an irrational debate. The government exists to make decisions. If this situation persists, Minister, you will prove that in addition to all cards of figurative, moral, efficiency, etc., which have been swallowed, the last card of figs of simple, common sense will fall. And citizens remember elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u7	Here, Mr Stathakis, we are anxiously waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u8	Let's start with the one million that's become two for the region's GEOB. One million was there. The same people had created a huge debt for the data of the time. And to restore the alleged lie, I will read PPC's charge per acre. In 2006 it was EUR 10,44, in 2010 EUR 15,08, in 2013 EUR 34,39. The increase is huge. That's the charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u9	You're reading other numbers. We're talking about another issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u10	If you want, I can read you all the years. Since 2015 it has been EUR 33,95 and in 2016 EUR 36,33. Since then there has been no change at all. So performance in the problem is well known. Let us now refer to the second matter. I repeat that the bodies which have come to an agreement and which have made arrangements are progressing properly. It is not universal, and it must also be addressed by those bodies which are not regulated and which must do so. Secondly, as far as interest is concerned, the regulation does not only concern interest. He may also have a small interest, the one provided by law. So this issue needs to be re-examined as to whether it is right to see the way it is dealt with, but the arrangements are not harmless by definition. I repeat that the issue to be studied is open if the calculation of the dose arrangements is correct if the code is respected. I think we are dealing with the code provided for by the RAE. Thirdly, it is not a question of whether it is more in one region. There are differences between regions. However, the common place is that we need to introduce a system of arrangements for the whole country. That's the effort that's going on, it's set-up. This will also give PPC a great advantage, because it will not have debts that have not been regulated in this area. It's very important to regulate. There is a favourable regime. There has been a regulation by the Ministry of Rural Development and we continue to deal with the problem of farmers who pay and the farmers who do not pay for the TWG. We have found a solution there in order to support, not to have negative consequences within the TWG for farmers who pay against those who do not pay. So individual legislative and administrative measures have been taken in order to facilitate regulation. I repeat, our spirit is common. We want to make it easier for those who make the great effort from the TWG and, at the same time, we must finalise that there is a piece that implements a practice to accumulate debts without entering a serious dialogue on this regulation. Anything more favourable can arise from existing regulations and the existing arrangements, I am personally positive, as long as it is a common field of dialogue from everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u11	Madam President, can the Minister provide us with the official information he invoked on PPC's electricity increases? Please testify for the Minutes in order to check the truth of what you said. Please, Minister, testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u12	If he has all the documents and no extracts, he'll testify to them, Mr. Maniatis. He knows that. If he can, he'll testify.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u13	I put it to the Minutes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and they were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, forty students and students and four educational attendants from the Pramantas High School, Chrysovitsas, Vrosina and Zitsas Ioannina, who are hosted in Athens as part of an educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You're from great places. Athens has very nice places, but it is not compared to your own mountains and landscapes. Today we have no legislative work. But you can see this wonderful building and the Chamber of Parliament. Before I close the meeting, I will also announce the other questions which will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers. The fourth under number 458/1-4-2019 topical question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Transfer of claims from credit or financial institutions to Requirements Management - Companies for Acquisition of Claims from Loans and Credits", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Economy and Development Mr.Ioannis Drasakis on the grounds of: government mission to Thessaloniki. The fourth under number 441/26-3-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Protection of citizens - borrowers from the abuse of legal offices as tax collectors", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Economy and Development Mr.Ioannis Drasakis on the grounds of: government mission in Thessaloniki. The first question under number 468/2-24-2019 of a second question by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Antonios Balomenakis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "The need to regulate franchising contracts will not be debated because of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Stergios Pitsirla with cause: misappropriated obligations. The second question, under number 463/1-4-2019, of a second question by the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Expand co-financing of Social Sports and Social Pharmaceuticals from the 2014-2020 Regional Operational Programmes", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Stathi Giannakides on the grounds of: government mission to Thessaloniki. The eighth Question No 279/15-1-2019, by Mr Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the Transport Equivalent", will not be discussed due to the imprisonment of the Deputy Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr. Nektarios Santoriniou, with cause: the same question has been discussed again by the Member himself. Seems to me something's been announced about this. The fifth, under number 437/22-32019, topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament, Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios State, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Announcement of a post Professor of Shirotology - Apiculture at the Democritus University of Thrace", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou on the grounds of: workload. Finally, the first question under number 5080/28-1-2019 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning "the adoption of the necessary ministerial decisions on the filling of organic posts of priests", is not discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the grounds of "the workload". The same document shall inform the Government's Secretary-General of the irrevocable questions and of the reasons for them to be cancelled. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-04-05-S1-commons.u15	With the consent of the House at 10.30 p.m. the sitting for the next Monday, April 8, 2019, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
