ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 18-9-2019 authorisation, the minutes of its PR meetings of Wednesday 18 September 2019 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Creation of the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA), ‘European Governmental Security Agency (ENISA)’.]] There will be a little mention of the Republic Day by the President-in-Office. Today, as a representative of the Bureau of Parliament, I would like to honour with you on the recent International Democracy Day, which is celebrated on 15 September each year from 1997 to today. In Greece it is customary to honour only its anniversary restoration and not so much the value of democracy with its timeless teachings. Democracy in all its manifestations from 5th BC. century to date and from Athens to the end of the earth, it continues to be the most participatory, liberal and fair form of civilization, a state based on dialogue, fairness, freedom and above all, truth. Democracy is founded on the principle of popular sovereignty, and it is the citizens of respect, diversity, equality, dignity, fearless will and expression of justice, collective interest and cooperation. It is the civilisation that gives each of us rights, while at the same time making us responsible for its implementation and protection. And, of course, it is understandable that it concerns all of us, both active democratic citizens, but much more of us who were elected through the people. The only permanent negotiation on the balance of democracy is that the rights and obligations stemming from it are for all are an indiscriminate set that cannot be discounted and netted. Any derogation from this set, that is to say, when it is attempting to secure rights without liability or to confer responsibilities without rights, cannot be called a democracy. In this case, we are talking about an erroneous regime based on opportunism, immunity, corruption, intolerance and political atrocity. In fact, democracy means knowledge of the social situation by all, knowledge of the rights and obligations of both politicians and citizens. This knowledge is based on education and, above all, on social education. Collective knowledge and conscience in turn give rise to the need for each of us to negotiate, not only the prevalence of their own opinion, but above all the right for their opponent to be free to express their own opposite opinion. Only so, through this process, the democratic morality is cultivated, which is the best guarantee for a truly democratic city. That is because no matter how much we agree or disagree, no matter how much we get together or conflict, one thing is certain in democracy that there are no deadlocks. This phrase by Paul Bakoyannis, which in a few days will be completed 30 years after his brutal murder since “17 November”, is now more timely than ever. With a compass, therefore, I hope that we will continue to praising in practice the value that our ancestors have given us, always going wisely and responsibly, with respect and knowledge, with open mind and heart to the challenges and, above all, to the values of our Athenian Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 20 September 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 11/17-9-2019 topical question by Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: ‘Integration of the Thessaloniki Metro Integration directly’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 8/16-9-2019, by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Let the Region of Crete be given responsibility and funding (EUR 25 million) for road safety at the North Road Crete (BOAK). 3. The 15/17-9-2019 topical question by Piraeus II, Mr. Fotinis Bakakakimas, of "Mera25" to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Statement of archives of patients of general state of Nice". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Pellis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jakri to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, dated 12/17-9-2019, on "Following the work of the Giannitsa and Chalcidona bypass". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 14/17-9-2019 by Ms. East Attica, Mr. Maria Apatzidis, Minister for Finance, on the subject: 'Blocking of the Public Economic Service (DU) Acharones'. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Of the five topical questions one will not be discussed on the basis of a letter from the Secretary of Government, although Mr Georgiadis informed me that he could answer, but I have to respect the letter from the Secretary of Government. This is the fourth question, number 13/17-9-2019, first question by MP B2 West Athens, "Mera25" Kritona Arsenis to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Change the legislative framework for the Aegean". So we begin the debate on the topical and urgent questions with the first with number 7/16-9-2019 in the first cycle of MP A' Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, on the subject: 'Protecting citizens of borrowers from the abuse of legal offices as collectors' companies'. Since there are four questions, there will also be a reasonable tolerance from the Bureau and from the honourable Member to the Minister. Here, Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I also thank the Minister present. We are actually doing what we are doing, as this is the first question of the new period, which we have committed - and I personally - to the citizens of Thessaloniki. We are your voice, you are our strength for an issue that concerns their everyday lives. As you are well aware, Mr President, in the previous period as a member of the Coupling - and this is why my question does not have a strong opposition - to the Government of SYRIZA, as a member of the SYRIZA, I have raised three issues, such as the preferential status of the borrower - the model of Cyprus, the collecting companies and the issue of closed and non-electrical houses. I say this as a frame of reference and claim, so that we can have substantial answers from the present Minister. So, key word, everyday life. When, on February 14, 2017, the head of thirty SYRIZA MPs, I set the theme 'brains on the immunity of tax collectors'', he responded - and I have his document - Mr Papaderakis, the Secretary-General for Trade, on behalf of the political leadership. The key point, which is also the essence, the core of my question, is from his three-page answer, according to the opinion of the Legal Council of State, “Excludes the scope of the law”, which is the law of operation of the tax collectors, Law No.3758/2009, “lawyers and legal corporations. Enforcement of compliance with the specific institutional framework, i.e. the Code of Conduct, and the imposition of any sanctions, define the legal associations concerned.’ So on the basis of complaints made to consumer organisations, including EKPIZO, they make a bypass. The collecting companies have suffered the fines, many of them have closed, fines of EUR 300,000, EUR 500,000, 600,000 - I am talking about the context and the time of the previous government - and so, with this bypass, through legal offices and through legal companies, they have found the possibility to do what they could no longer do, after giving them that opportunity, the key point I have just mentioned. We must say here that, according to the complaints, we are talking about an issue which concerns the daily lives of citizens, creates a daily climate of pressure and terror. They communicate with borrowers more than once per second day, while under the framework it is twice a week. They call on consumers in secret, they do not declare their name and status, they do not declare that the conversation is recorded and they do not record the conversation. They're working at the expense of the borrower and his family psychological pressure. They remove the issue of personal data, as they are looking for them in their work, so that colleagues in the workplace are also learning the issues relating to the hard core of personal data, that is, their debts, etc. They behave in an insulting and degrading way, annoying people of the consumer’s family about debt repayment, often over-aged persons, grandparents, grandparents, and grandparents or minors. They are disturbed by phones that were never given by the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u3	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u4	Immediately, Mr President. They show, in contact with the consumer, qualities which they do not have and which are not inconsistent with the debtors. So I ask, Minister, that this new term is two months. I do not want to lie to you, I just want to see the framework determined, how you intend to move, on the basis of what has been positive but not enough has been done in the past, to protect families and borrowers, not - take care - of six strategic poor payers. I mean, families they don't have and they can't pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u5	Well, that's understandable. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank the honourable Member for his question. This is the first question we answer in the new government. I would like to say to the House that I consider it to be one of the highest duties of the Minister to answer Members' questions and I will try, if I do not miss a trip abroad, to cancel anything else to be in this House and answer the Members' questions. Mr President, on the question you raised, Mr Arsenis, the President and the Secretariat of the Government are right, and it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, in principle, to inform you, to have an image, is preparing a legislative initiative which will be presented specifically in the next few weeks, and so you can repeat the question to the Minister responsible. Mr President, the issue you raise, which is indeed about the daily lives of the citizens, is an important issue and you are welcome to say that your position is honouring you in the sense that it is not really a novelty. You dealt with this matter and during the time when the government was SYRIZA, and you are well aware that there is a legal gray zone. What's the legal gray zone for people to understand? The 2009 Act, which concerns collecting companies, does not include, does not apply to lawyers. How do we know that? In 2012 a question was raised on the Legal Council of the State then - citizens' complaints about the involvement of legal offices and their conversion into collecting companies. The Law Council of the State unanimously concluded that lawyers and lawyers do not fall within the scope of Law 3758/2009. I must tell you that the Minister for Development cannot intervene, because, as you are well aware, the regulatory framework within which lawyers operate is laid down by the Minister for Justice and not by the Minister for Development, exclusively and constitutionally. In order to take a legislative initiative on the issues you have raised, especially for lawyers and lawyers, the Minister responsible is the Minister for Justice. I have to tell you that the Department of Development's services have been in contact with the Ministry of Justice. Because everything you say is real. It is happening, I will tell you that they are also abusive, afflicted and people who are indeed not a strategic bad-payer, but who has no money to pay and certainly no longer as a government, not as a Minister of Development, I tell you that we are concerned with and expected to have such an initiative by the relevant Minister of Justice to regulate this grey point, which unfortunately from 2009 until 2012 -2019 - has not been regulated. It was not even regulated by the previous SYRIZA government. In my opinion badly. Therefore, expect an initiative in this regard that will lay rules for both lawyers and lawyers in the effort to collect borrowers' debts. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, the required cycle has not been completed, because this was the case, the tightening up of Law 3758/2009, but all the preparatory actions - and the Minister knows that - had been established in the summer of 2018, that a committee was set up which worked in five main sections: the general data protection regulation, legal companies, scope, various issues such as the frequency of nuisances and the legislative improvement of the law. I have the law here. This draft law by the previous political leadership was filed with the General Secretariat of Trade and exists. It is a law - which we did not do, let us say so - which was tabled a month and a half before the European elections and had been completed. It shall contain 12 articles. Article 9 is the stake in the functioning of lawyers and lawyers. Here I would like to clarify that we are fully honouring the legal world and the lawyers - so that there is no misunderstanding - the legal office, the lawyers, etc. We are referring only to cases of abuse, which act as a bypass, to avoid control, on the basis of the opinion of the Legal Council of State. Minister, at the time of 2009, the Minister accepted his first part in terms of the time. It did not accept the second part of the Legal Council of the State, of Resolution 528, which referred to the future. So a glorious field, since there is provision for a fine to be imposed on those of the minimum lawyers or lawyers in Article 9(4). So you must make it clear with Mr Tsiara - that is, the Ministries of Development and Justice - what the political will is, not to SYRIZA or Triantafylides - forget about this - but to the people who are suffering, to the people who cause them psychological problems, to those who are afflicting them in their everyday lives, to blackmail them, because they do not have to pay. Oak if you're a owl than you don't have. And I submit to the Minutes, because it is important, five such complaints from all over Greece: "I owe a credit card amount because, because of financial difficulties, I have not been able to pay any instalments. I am disturbed by the collecting company.’ "I have been disturbed repeatedly in my workplace, leaking data relating to my personal data." "I was threatened," says the complainant, "today from the office, that they will send a car to my place of work, along with a judicial curator, to get my information and sign an extrajudicial." We are talking about a process of intimidation and terrorisation, which is not appropriate, is not in line with a prosperous, prosperous and equitable European state. Obviously, this must be separated from the consistent citizens who pay their obligations, and for them we have to have - we have said so and we have also proposed it - a bonus. On the other hand, for the people who lost their shop, they lost their jobs, perhaps lost their roof, they could not go on with this vagina of tax collector companies. I would ask that the Minutes of the House include these complaints from EMCDDA 2019. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I ask, in conclusion, Mr Georgiadis, what the political will of the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Justice and the Government is. Will you protect the ordinary citizen, who is oppressed by the terrorism of the tax collector companies - the least legal offices doing bypass, why did the 2009 Act exclude them and why did the previous political leadership not have time to complete them? There's a law ready with twelve articles in your office.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u9	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u10	Will you bring him into action, with any modifications and the necessary consultation with all the bodies? In other words, consumer organisations, lawyers, Mr. Vervessos, obviously, and all other bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u11	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u12	Mr Colleague, you now understand how difficult we are. If the SYRIZA Government, in order to complete the social dialogue it wanted to do on such a serious issue, took four and a half years and in four and a half years you did not, as you said, have not done, I imagine you will give us, to the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, a semester! We are obviously much faster than you, to reduce four and a half years in six months and to say good. So I say to you, so that we do not waste time, that our political will is certainly also to intervene. Now, if we take your law, which we are considering - the truth is that in some parts we agree, while in others we disagree, as is the case with the governments - as if I were watching you go out on the channels and say 'eat from the ready and do the same thing we did'. Well, let's get these things cleared up and put the wider political issue on the table. Governments have a term of office. They're judged for what they did and not for what they didn't catch. What they didn't have to catch up with is the answer. So if you arrived four and a half years later to table a draft law of 12 articles a month and a half before the European elections - because we were together in the previous Parliament - you had all the time, either before the European elections or after the European elections, which, I would remind you, opened up by the House and legislated, for example, the new Criminal Codes. I do not understand why, as a SYRIZA MEP, you did not even ask for that week when you voted for the Penal Codes, the ready-made bill, submitted to the General Secretariat of the Government, to become a state law, since you consider it so serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u13	Congressman, not Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u14	So obviously the previous government failed to deal with this issue. He failed! We will now be judged on whether we can regulate it. We will not be able to say retrospectively that we did not do so. So I'm telling you, our intention is to provoke. And already the first steps of our Government in these areas, Mr Colleague, to avoid generally speaking about the intentions, are very specific. I must tell you that I, as the Minister of Development, together with the Secretary-General for Consumer Affairs and the State Secretary responsible, Mr Papathanassis, imposed the biggest fine imposed on a Greek bank a few days ago because he committed an irresponsible payroll account and the complaint had come to the Ministry of Development several months before the elections on 7 July. The Ministry of Development before the elections on 7 July did not fine the bank. The Ministry of Development after the 7 July elections imposed a fine on the bank. So we made the fine. In addition, let me tell you that the Ministry of Development had reached a complaint about a large insurance company before the 7 July elections on abusive terms. The Ministry of Development before the elections of 7 July did not fine the large insurance company, while the Ministry of Development after the elections of 7 July fined the large insurance company. I say this mainly because there is also a reputation for what government is with the great and what government with the small ones, so that the Greek people can hear and agree. You were with the little people on the channels, but on the fines you were with the big guys. We were with everyone, with the big and small, and we tell everyone the same thing: 'The country has rules. The laws shall apply, whether in the case of small or large.’ That is the difference between the two governments. And to fix something that's been heard. This legislative initiative that will come is not an opinion of 2009 and that of the government. The opinion of the Legal Board of the State is 2012. In fact, you rightly stated that the then Minister, my predecessor, of the Samara - Venizelos Government, quite rightly accepted the first part of the legal opinion, but fortunately he did not accept the second part. Just because, then, the Minister of Government of Samaras did not accept the second part, we were able today to legislate. Because if the Minister of Government at that time had accepted the second part, namely that we cannot legislate because that is what the Legal Council of State said, now we would not be here to have this debate. The big question, Mr President, is why, while the Samara government, in favour of the poor, said that we could legislate, the Tsipras government took four and a half years to think about it and did not cause it? These are the great questions of the Greek people as to their everyday life. These are the failures of the previous government in terms of the everyday life of ordinary Greek citizens, so the world voted for a political change on 7 July. And don't worry. We'll make it quick. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u15	I, as President-in-Office, simply say that the Legal Council of the State, respectable, but takes the opinions on the legislation that exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u16	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u17	The Legal Council of the State is not above Parliament. The House can change everything by means of a new law. Good. Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. I will now give Mr Arsenis the floor for half a minute, which he very kindly wishes to express - let me say it - his disagreement or his complaint that his question is being cancelled, even though you have given a clear answer. Here you go, Mr Arseni. I'm not putting time on you because I've watched you and you're a simple one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President, for the flexibility. Mr. Georgiadis, society was shocked by the initiatives and proposals that broke into "Kathimerini" and then to various other involved instruments. The articles said they came from the Ministry of Development. I wanted to give you a chance to say whether they are your proposals or not. From the fact that you do not deny it, it seems to be your proposals. It seems to us that the government is thinking of bringing back...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Arseni, watch me. I gave you the floor to the procedure, not to place you on the substance of the question, which will not be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u20	The Court ruled as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u21	When he comes to talk, say what you want. You asked me for the floor for the procedure and I gave it to you. Now you guys place yourself. That can't be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u22	Good, on a point of order. He said the Minister is unauthorized to answer because he is responsible for the Ministry of Finance. It seems to us that for the protection zone, for example, of the Aegean Sea, if it is to be thirty metres, it is the Ministry of Finance. It seems that the Minister avoids answering, and that is a point of order, because he had said on the phone that he would come and finally withdrew. So here something is hidden and what's hidden is that these provisions go to come in secret, go to another process. The Treasury can't touch these cavalry issues. They're issues of the Ministry of the Environment. It's not all for sale, that's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Georgiades, I'll answer, don't worry. First of all, I would like to make it clear that Mr. Georgiadis has informed me that he is ready to answer. However, it is not the ministers who decide what questions will be discussed and which will be answered by the Ministers, but the Secretary-General of the Government. So no mempton for Mr. Georgiadis. Secondly, what did Mr. Georgiadis say? He said the state Department was the Treasury. Hence, while it was in the original draft of his own bill, articles about the Ayalo were withdrawn and will be signed together with other ministries, but the expedition is the Ministry of Finance. So you will have all the opportunity to come back with your question if you wish next week, before the bill said by the Minister is presented, or when the draft law of the Ministry of Finance comes, which will be for the saint to develop your views.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I would like the floor to add something only.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u26	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u27	And less, just for not creating conspiracy. My bill is very - ministerial bill, i.e. it has provisions from various other ministries, one of which was at the beginning and the Ministry of Finance. Finally, precisely so that there is nothing you said, that is, his image in the secret, because in a very large and complex bill to put something in there you are hiding it very well, the Ministry of Finance and the Government, Mr President, have said to bring a special bill precisely because of the seriousness of the matter. So only in secret can you blame us. So ask your question to the Minister responsible to answer you. That's what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u28	Incidentally, I had taken him and I, Mr. Georgiadis, told him what I saw in the original I did not see it now, because I was interested in him, Mr. Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u29	And I told you the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u30	Not only do you have sensations about the cavalry, I think all the wings have.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u31	So we're moving on now. Parliamentarian, Mrs Catherine Monument, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from 21-9-2019 to 24-9-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u32	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I would also like to make some announcements to this House. The Ministers for the Environment and Energy, Economic, Development and Investment, National Defence, Labour and Social Affairs, Home, Foreign Affairs and Maritime Policy tabled drafts on 18-9-2019: 1. "Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the company "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" for the granting of the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons in the marine region 10, Ionian Sea, Greece." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. "Preparation of the Lease Convention between the Hellenic Republic and the companies "Repsol Exploration S.A" and "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" to grant the right to research and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the maritime region "Ionian", Western Greece". 3. "Preparation of the Lease Contract between the Hellenic Republic and the companies "Total E&P Greece B.V", "ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V" "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" to grant the right of exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons to the maritime region "South-Western Crete", Greece." 4. "Preparation of the Lease Contract between the Hellenic Republic and the companies "Total E&P Greece B.V", "ExxonMobil Exploration and Production Greece (Crete) B.V" and "Greek Petroleum Anonymous Company" to grant the right to investigate and exploit hydrocarbons to the marine region "Western Crete", Greece." We were informed of all this yesterday at the Conference of Presidents. Next week, because they are sanctions, they will be discussed in plenary for your information. We are now moving on to the second with number 6/13-9-2019, a topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadia of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To deal with the problems and stop the abandonment of the State Institute of Bytina." Mr Makis Vorides will answer the question. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u33	I would like to wish the Minister, because he is his first question, a good success in his work. I hope in an example such as the Bytinas State Foundation, where, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in many stages of infrastructure there is no money. There is money here, there are infrastructures, but we cannot use them. I want to say to you - so to understand, because I think it is very important - that Panagiotis Triantafyllides, who has left a few hundred million and at the moment manages the Greek State, is indeed a not only an Arcas benefactor, that is, a benefactor who only concerned Arcadia, but benefactor for all of Greece. There are scholarships in his name in the primary sector. In his will he did not write "I want this to be done", but he asked the University Court after many years to decide how the money should be used. Minister, twenty-eight years later, this whole process began to go on. You may have gone - because you've been to the Bytina - and you've seen the space. It's an excellent place. In 2012, with the then government of Samaras - Venizelos, the first process began with Minister Tsataris. I then approved, as Minister, funding for beekeeping. Unfortunately, over the last four years - and I will speak specifically - the SYRIZA Government has only remained in words and has done nothing. I would point out that the Minister's last answer was that he would carry out training programmes in the viticulture, beekeeping and livestock farming. Nothing's happened yet. As regards the vaccination of hazelnut roots with truffles, nothing has happened yet. Forty-five acres of Greek vine varieties were planted but failed because of the abandonment. It would produce the "Minalu tea" product, but nothing has happened yet. There was going to be a visiting cherry garden - all that said by the previous Minister and there are questions, Minister - but nothing has happened yet. I would like to ask you four issues, which I think we should be very serious about from the moment your money is available and there is your availability and not continue like the previous ones. Firstly, the necessary staff must be recruited. There's money. All institutions are talking about people who have agricultural studies and a seasonal staff. To give weight to the cultivation of apples, tea and hops. For tea, Minister, there is a man of business, PPP, who states in writing that "I am ready to fund cultivation, process and use it." Secondly, to continue the programme of vaccination of hazelnut roots, to create the visiting vegetarian garden, to create a permanent advisory apiculture station, and thus to make the estate accessible - because we are talking about too many acres - and to students, to be visited by people, to be able to come schools from all over Greece. I would ask you - and I will continue this every two months - to find a concrete way in which we can go for the benefit of the region, of the people and of the whole country in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u34	Mr Mavroudis Voridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Mr Colleague, both for your wishes and for the question. Let me begin with the basic which we are interested in and which is the expression of our political will in this respect, because I think that is the key, and then move on to how we organise the expression of this will. The government's political will is to make the best possible use of the Standard Triadafyllidium Mountain Economy Station of Bytina, the State Building of Bytina and to develop it as far as possible. Now, having said this, we are going to start dealing with a number of issues. I have listened to you in various thoughts and suggestions. To tell you a little what situation we are in, which, as I understand it, is obviously a situation which has been shaped in a certain way by the actions of the previous government. What is still pending in terms of recruitment - because there is an issue of staff, and that is therefore an issue that needs to be addressed - is that in 2018 a position of IE1 of agricultural - livestock for secondment was announced, for which there was no interest. There is currently a recruitment process in the AAR, which concerns the whole of the Ministry of Rural Development, of eighty positions. These include a position of TE1 Farmer and IE of Agricultural - Animals on this particular state estate. If there are thoughts - because something I have heard you say about 'another type of recruitment, by another procedure' - these to discuss them, to look at them, to look at what possibilities we have, but stressing that this is a decentralised structure of the public and therefore we have specific limitations on what we can do and what we cannot do. As regards the course, development, in the future - I am not talking about the things that have already been done - I, too, am telling you from my service that they have submitted for the identification of the sparse production of the particular local product 'Mainalu tea'. There is the proposal in measure 16 ‘Cooperation’ of the PAA and this is done in collaboration with ELGO - ‘DIMETRA’. In other words, it is the state property making this proposal with ELGO - "DIMITRA", the Farm Cooperative of Arcadia "The Union" and the company of Ioanna Matthaou under the distinctive title "ANASA". In the context of measure 16 ‘ANA’, there are two other proposals, which have already been tabled: ‘Strengthening the biodiversity of the Peloponnese vineyards’. This concerns the reorganization and rescue of the mountainous Greek wine varieties. This has been done in collaboration with the Agricultural University and the Arcadia Farm Cooperative. The second proposal, which has been made, is 'the maintenance of the local population of Tripolis', which concerns the development of the special variety of Tripolis garlic. In order not to exceed my time, there is even a series of ongoing and ongoing actions, to which I shall refer after your dentistry. I repeat, however, that the general framework and my general perception are to be supported, and if there are things that are not included in what are planned, planned and drafted a specific action plan on how to best exploit the particular Bytin State property.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to tell you the following: First, four and a half years have passed, with dozens of questions from my own, at the disposal of the previous government. Proven zero, though! You have now told me that everything is in the process of 'to be done'. Minister, if we go with these procedures, in my view, it will be another four years and the next Minister will tell me that there is a political will to be done but unfortunately it is all somewhere. Our issue is a country's development dot in the primary sector. In other words, we have renovated facilities, we have very large spaces, dozens of acres, and we cannot find a way to find staff, to make a private and public connection - to tea and to many others to these programmes - and to manage quickly the money that already exists in a transparent and serious manner. If we don't do that, we won't be able to do anything at all. So a first issue that goes beyond what is essential - because I think you can do that - is that we have to find procedures that go beyond what was stopping us until today. I mean, yes to the programs, there are all these programs. But there is something, Minister. Are we going to make use of this money? People listen to us, they listen to us in our Arcadia, they listen to us in Greece. I want to show you something and I'll testify to you. It's very important that you see it, maybe you haven't seen it. The budget for the property of the financial year 2019 has 250,000 euros! The absorption must be zero. The budget of the Ministry of Finance has 250,000 euros, which in fact gives it to the Ministry of Agriculture so that it can go ahead. Are we going to absorb this in a way? Are we going to find a flexible way - with the bodies, with the municipality, with the people who are involved and are excellent people, even universities, who have given their lives - so that this whole process can go ahead? [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Secondly, I told you something about the programmes concerning the training of the primary sector. We all say that we want people who want to deal with the primary sector. There we have facilities, we have people who deal with the primary sector, beekeeping, livestock farming. However, we do not have the possibility of a seminar being held. A seminar has been held. So in addition to the political will - because you are a man who, I think you can get over bureaucracy, so I think, at least the government says that he wants to overcome this - he wants a good example to prove in essence how we can make use of the money of a great benefactor and not stay in 2019 and go to 2020. I think that in the bank the amount - and I want to say it because it has an interest, the President asked me - could exceed 700 million! I say this again: they may exceed 700 million of Panagiotis Triantafyllides' money! And we can't help it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u38	You mean 700m euros?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u39	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u40	What was that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, it wasn't from Yannina the Triantafylides, because you had many benefactors too. He was arcas. You had the communication gift at the time, as the previous government had it, and you raised them. We didn't have the communication gift to show him up. It's interesting, since you like history, to go and read about Panagiotis Triantafylides. I'll get you information. He was a man who didn't say - I mentioned it before - 'I want my money to go there', but the university congress to decide in the primary sector where his money needs to go. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u42	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u43	I agree with you that we obviously need to find ways to circumvent systems that are difficult and dysfunctional and to make public administration as effective as possible. But having said this, we must know that as far as - and you know that, I do not have to tell you - the European programmes, obviously, have their own procedures and their own times. You know that, and so there is something that is a great debate in Europe, as I was saying. I agree that bureaucracy is heavy at European level too. It's a big conversation in general. We have to try to do things. We can't do that here. We cannot do this alone and we cannot solve this matter locally, let me say it nationally as reality goes beyond us. Now, I'm getting out of text. The text of the service does, however, mean that I am not wrong, a project that is interesting and to which you are referring. He speaks, for example, of setting up a hospital standard, talking about an experimental chain of forty acres, and he speaks of this sober garden to which you referred. So the agency obviously has an action plan in mind, if you like. But you say some things that, to tell the truth, I hear them now from you and they are not verified, are not confirmed by the information that the agency makes to me. Whether we have 700 million at our disposal, that is a very big issue. The amount is huge.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u44	It's 250,000 for 2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u45	Two minutes. The 250,000 to 700 million, as you can imagine, have a spectacular difference. If there are 700 million - I do not know, but I will see it and possibly there will be - there according to the intention of the holder, as initially described, there will be restrictions and commitments. You have to consider that. But we'll consider it. Because, indeed, it's extremely interesting. The 250,000 to which you refer is, of course, a sum that needs to be exploited, there is no doubt about that. And, of course, it must strengthen and assist the actions described here. I am not at all sure that it is enough to fulfil these actions described here, but in any case it is obviously something that needs to be taken in the first place and to see what remains. So I'm telling you, I'm going to look at these in great detail. If we need to enrich this drafted action plan with more action, we need to do so. And, indeed, I agree with you, to see in a concrete way how, in immediate steps, one can see concrete results and not just a description of an action plan which, let me say, is late to be implemented. That is what I have to say at the moment. Obviously, it is something that we will monitor and see in its evolution again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u46	Will you submit these documents from the services, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u47	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u48	We shall now proceed with the second question that Mr Vorides will answer. This is the third with number 18/17/09-2019 in the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party MP Iraklios Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "For the robbery of grapes in the Regional Unit of Heraklion". The Minister responsible will answer, as I said before. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, once again, the vineyard growers of Heraklion are in a dead end and are facing very serious survival problems because of the humiliating prices on the grapes. The prices of table and wine grapes, which form major traders, big business winemakers and former associations do not even cover production costs, which this year, of course, is increased because of the diseases and the severe weather phenomena which have hit the grapes. This year, they won't even get out the crop supplies, and that's what you want, I can document it for you. Many have left vineyards unheard of, many will not succeed in cultivating them in the next growing season and others abandon them, leave them, leave them. The situation is dramatic. The producer prices for table grapes are, at best, increased to fifty to sixty pounds per kilo and for wine grapes to twenty-five to thirty minutes again at best. The big traders blackmail producers to receive one third of the price in kind, farm supplies, which they need, and the rest of the verandas. In other words, pay has now become a rule. The big traders invent various justifications to obtain table varieties for winemaking, characterizing them as lower-quality products, i.e. an industrial product, which in the end is not likely to go for vinegar. Producers are blackmailed with the robbery prices and unacceptable conditions by major traders and industrialists, due to the specificity of the grape as a susceptible product and the need for their immediate absorption from the market. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, the situation has led to despair of small and medium-sized vineyard growers in many regions, such as Prophet Elias, Archanes, Malevese villages and elsewhere. In this context, of course, the European Court of Justice' s decision to abolish the reduced rates of taxation on rabies, to the tsipouro, is also coming to an increase of up to eighteen times, in relation to today's tax, equitable with the excise duty on imported beverages, such as whisky, in order to avoid, he says, the distortion of competition within the internal market, as the Commissioner responsible, Mr Moscovisi, has said to us in the European Parliament. This decision is evidently depriving distillers and winegrowers of any possibility for an extra living income. We ask you, Minister: What measures do you intend to take and immediately, in order to support the small and medium-sized winegrowers, by ensuring minimum guaranteed prices for grape - I refer to table grapes and winemaking - to cover production costs, to allow wine growers to survive and continue production activities? Finally, what do you intend to do, in order not to apply the judgment of the European Court of Justice on the taxation of ticks and ticks and to retain the right to distillation and sale, as established until now? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u50	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, with your question you put two related questions, but at the same time different issues. In the first three minutes I have, let me reply to the first point you raise and then reply to the second one on taxation. On the first point, you are asking me whether I intend to introduce minimum guaranteed prices for the products concerned for the grapes. I wanted to ask you if you believe, first of all, that we should adopt this in all products, namely that we have minimum guaranteed prices in cheese, minimum guaranteed prices in watermelons, minimum guaranteed prices in potatoes, minimum guaranteed prices in peaches, everywhere. If that is your thought, then, I would also like to ask if you are thinking only about agricultural products or whether this is one of your positions, which concerns all products, for example, where competition or other specific circumstances are particularly pushing prices. So I wanted to answer you here - I have an easy answer to that - that obviously Union legislation does not allow it. But you know that. I would, however, like to extend to that and say why we should not do so, even if Union legislation allowed it. He doesn't allow it. But even if he allowed it, should we do it? Should we start putting minimum guaranteed prices on products in conditions, I repeat - to be absolutely clear - free competition and free movement of products and not in conditions in which we close borders and there is no movement of products, capital movements and movement of persons? What does it mean to a guaranteed minimum? Who buys, Mr. Colleague, the grapes? The ones you described, the merchants, who say they are pressing and indeed pushing. I will say that sometimes they are pushing the producers with unfair practices. I'll talk about how this is handled. Let's say we gave a minimum guaranteed price for grapes in Crete. Where were they going to take grapes if there were cheaper prices elsewhere? Wouldn't they be looking for grapes at cheaper prices? What would result in that? It would mean that these grapes would not be bought at all. However, let us say that we are applying this completely uniform for all the grapes in Greece and we are imposing the minimum guaranteed price. What does that mean? It means that we are actually increasing the cost of producing wine. If, however, the cost of producing wine is increased in a non-competitive way, then in fact, what does that mean? That Greek wine is thrown out of the market. So what does that mean? A vertical drop in demand for grapes, since there is no consumption of expensive Greek wine. Therefore, this type of distortions, which are supposed to be entering and operating protectively, result in permanent and always affecting the income of producers. So what should we do? Because, indeed, you have a real problem. What should be done? Here the producer organisations, using financial tools - there is the Rural Development Programme - should see and proceed with the restructuring of their crops, the planning of their production, the improvement and preservation of the quality of the product, the promotion of the product on the markets, the prevention and management of crises on the markets, the protection of the environment. These are actions for which 60% of the European Union's money is supported. Let us not adopt measures which lead to mathematical certainty in attacking producers' incomes under free movement of products - I stress it, in order not to misunderstand myself, I do not say what is going on in a closed market, this is a different debate - and in conditions of competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u53	Minister, the truth is that you have made a great deal of effort to defend your policy and the philosophy on which this policy is based, which you are implementing, a policy of the European Union and the other parties. It's not just yours. We, when we are in place for farmers, workers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, etc., are placed from the point of view of defending their own interests. We are not talking about big businessmen or industrialists or major exporters who promote the product. It is therefore very important that the state is the one with the minimum guaranteed prices that will ensure such producer prices, so that the crops of small and medium-sized producers can be sustainable and have such an income so that they can live themselves and their families can live. Why don't you tell me now that with 0,20 and 0,25 minutes winemaking, a producer can cultivate and live in his family, when per acre the cost is 600 euros and once the producer's wine-growing benefit from 0,20 and 0,25 cents is at 300 euros the acre in an ugly growing season. For table, even if the cost of croping is at best borne by the best. So here you are not talking about how the small- and medium-sized producer can be protected. Everything you have said does not guarantee anything. Vineyards, Minister, are falling apart and this disaster is to be added to the already negative effects of the application of the common agricultural policy, the high production costs applied by the Government. The sultan, remember it - here we will be - will have the same luck as the russian. This golden variety of the 1980s disappeared. The prefecture of Heraklion forty years ago cultivated a hundred thirty - two thousand acres of sultan with a production of more than a hundred twenty thousand tons. Today there are not even fifteen thousand acres. These are the achievements of your policy. At the same time, however, the work of the big traders, the industrialists, the industrialists and the major exporters is growing. That's the reality. The only one not to blame, after all, is the producer who has been left unprotected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I'll tell you this. Merchants play games at the expense of winegrowers. Are you willing to put your hand in these games? It doesn't appear from your first position. They buy from 0,20 to 0,60 minutes, depending on table or winemaking, they sell it at more than twice the price on the foreign markets and on the London shelf at 5,5 euros 50 grams when the producer's price is 0,20 to 0,60 minutes. That's the reality. So who loses, and who wins? So whether or not there will be support for the state-owned small and medium-sized producers? You are not prepared, that is what your policy says, and that is what you said in your protagonism. For what you are interested in is how the market will be strengthened, how traders will be strengthened and, of course, with a view to shrinking small and medium-sized farms and concentrating production and land in very few hands. This is the European Union's strategy. And to conclude, Mr President, by reintroducing requests and claims from the genuinely-equipped small and medium-sized agricultural policy. And I say genuinely, because there are also sold-out rural trade union leaders who pour water into the mill of the policy you're working on. Minimum guaranteed prices for grapes covering production costs. Cheap product for the consumer, to meet all the people's needs, which means putting an end to speculation by big-time and industrialists. To abolish the raccoons tax and withdraw the infamous decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Covenant, you have a question. You do not present the JRC's programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u55	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that the matter of grapes, table grapes and winemaking, has a direct bearing on raccoons and grapes. Because, as the situation stands today, producers could be oriented towards producing the raccoons, covering the messengers from the bad growing season and what is imposed on them by the big traders. So this policy is what we as a JRC and we call on farmers to defend and claim. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u56	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u57	Mr Colleague, I have followed your position, but you are staying in one piece and you are not in the biggest debate. Because if you were - if you wish - consistently in the political system and in the perception you are defending, you should say that in addition to the minimum price on the grape, you first want minimum prices everywhere, and secondly, if you start setting minimum prices, then you will actually put a minimum price on the wine, you will also put a minimum price on the other products, so that your thoughts can be sound, which you have done, I must say, in the political system that you are defending. That's how it worked. There wasn't a market. There was no profit. There was no competition. There were products which were centrally produced, centrally processed, in a centralised manner. Obviously, the issue of prices in such a system is of secondary importance. If you say that in full, I accept it. Not that I believe in this system. I think it is a completely free system, a system which insults brutally fundamental values - if you like - which I defend, such as the basic value of freedom. However, this is a general debate. What is not right to do is say "we're going to put a lower price" and then don't want to discuss what happens if you put the lowest price on a free and open competition system. Because you are not saying that if we put at the lowest price, in the first year we can secure an income, but in the second year we will have a collapse of income for the reasons I have explained. So let's just say it all just so we all know where we're standing. Secondly, you have attacked the European Union. However, you also do not reply to me about these tools that the European Union gives to enhance crop productivity, to strengthen producer groups, to strengthen the negotiating power of producer groups to traders. That's a conversation. Imagine the producer groups in one region. The dealers, where do they make money, Mr. Comrade? The product doesn't make money? They take the product, process it, give it a certain added value, whether traders or processors or wine processors - if we are talking about wine - and then there is marketing through the channels of supermarkets, shops, etc. But where does that come from? Where does it start? It doesn't come out of the product? Isn't the product the power? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The producer groups, we support and premium them, and we have lowered them from taxation. 10% is taxation on producer groups. It's the lowest tax there is. So imagine the producer groups negotiating and saying: 'We do not give it to this price. We are looking for another price." What will the dealer do? He's not taking it? And where does that make money when it's a big part of production? I come to the issue of taxation, not to leave it unanswered, because it has gone beyond my time. I would just like to say a half word about the issue of taxation which has been raised. You know that comes from a judgment of the European Court of Justice. You are aware of this decision. You also know that the non-conformity of any government, not just of our own, of any Member State of the European Union with decisions of the European Court of Justice, begins a procedure in which a fine is ultimately imposed. You know that, too. You're familiar with this. So the big debate is what we are going to do now. The position which Greece and the current government have supported is that there should have been a differentiation in taxation. It was backed up in the way that this was backed up by the European Court of Justice and lost. I will tell you something, although this answer I am giving you goes on with the work of the Ministry of Rural Development, although it is primarily a tax policy, it is a policy of the Ministry of Economy. But I am now talking about expressing the government unitedly. What is it that if you read the judgment of the European Court of Justice correctly shows a certain target, a way of moving? It says so in a particular paragraph. In fact, what we have to work for and do now is change this regulation. We must start a process of changing this regulation in order to differentiate the regulation in the way it regulates tick and tick. It is something the court did not accept that it could be subject to the same tax treatment as ouzo. That's what's actually gone. And it's something we need to start now. So I tell you that the government's intention is expressed and will try to do everything it can to avoid this being imposed - if you like - on taxation. From there on, however, it is clear - and we all need to know that - that non-compliance has brought about specific sanctions that fall under the taxpayer's back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u58	We are therefore entering the last timely question to which the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will reply, Mr Ioannis Vroutz. It is the first under number 9/17-9-2019 of the second time question by the Member of the Hercules Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The issue of pensions is excessively delayed and the problems of pensioners are particularly marked following the reduction of their incomes, the abolition of the CSR and the lower ceiling on pensions." Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. It is now well known that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government since 2015, either with false choices, or because of the disastrous 2015 that led to the third memorandum, has brought greater burdens to each family, every business, every worker, but also to the weak. Overtaxation and social cutbacks are the characteristics of this period that have come to bear more than the already difficult situation experienced by Greek society from the crisis. But what we have to discuss today is the identifiable dimension of SYRIZA - ANEL in relation to analgesia. Three decisions have defined the irreversible identity of SYRIZA - ANEL. The first Decision concerned widow's pensions, their drastic reduction and their abolition for certain categories. After the reactions, the SYRIZA Government came in May 2019, shortly before falling, to restore part of the old regime and restore not in whole, but partly the situation and the widow's pensions. He left a gap for the three-year period 2016-2019. You reiterated with one of your circulars the law of Mrs Ahtsioglu, but you spoke about the three years, not even at yesterday's meeting with the Prime Minister. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The second issue of political analgesia is the abolition of the ESS that the so-called left-wing government of SYRIZA has gone through, and which has hit a huge number of small pensioners, contrary to the agreement or the proposal that we submitted in 2014 to maintain the ESS, because it concerns a particular category of small pensioners, of course reformed to deal with whatever phenomena were. The third decision concerns the abolition of the lower level of pensions. Subsequent pension IKA shall be EUR 486. By order of Mr Tsipras, if you remember him, he signed - I do not know if he signed another decision - this decision to abolish the lower ceiling, so that pensions issued for workers are now humiliating. What are you thinking about the CSCE? What are you going to do with the need to establish a lower threshold? What about the three-year pension? Of course, if we do not take the time, I will also raise the question of the long delay in pensions in all the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u60	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. I also thank the fellow Member who has tabled this topical question on behalf of the Change Movement because I am given the opportunity to restore the truth and to inform both pensioners and workers and the Greek people in general and the situation in the insurance funds on the crucial issue not only of the insurance and the issues raised in the question, but above all of the great issue of outstanding pensions, the prospect of dealing with them and how the Government and the Ministry of Labour thinks about facing this great challenge. However, it is worth ninging the history of outstanding pensions from the period, Mr President, which in February 2019 fifty-fifth Members of the New Democracy and not only from other parties - but now I am talking about the political body that I represent - was asked several times questions to the Ministry of Labour, to the previous political leadership of the SYRIZA, in order to establish and come to light what the outstanding pensions are, Mr President, subsidiary, one-off cases in general. Unfortunately, also insulting Parliament and institutional processes and Civic Opposition, but also the other parties, these questions have never been answered. I would remind you that the previous Minister for Labour has been put on TV six times by SYRIZA, the previous government, but also other government officials and MPs, committed that on a time horizon, which they themselves set themselves, there would no longer be unfinished pensions beyond the time limit. That's the reality. In the government's programme statements, but also all the time before, as a Member before and as Minister, I had promised that the question of outstanding pensions would be the first priority for the government. And I had even caused SYRIZA, who even today in the invitation and challenge of my question why he did not ask a question to bring the results of the outstanding pensions through the House, never came to ask a question. Only two parties, at least what I know, were asked by New Democracy and KINAL. The parties' response is currently being processed by the services. The issue of pension unfinishedness will come and will be answered in the House by the end of August 2019, so that Greek citizens know the heavy legacy and lies of the previous government and the size of the open wounds that have been inherited. I was, however, obliged, as Minister, at least to look for an image of the staff members, so that I would have at least an assessment of where we are. Unfortunately, the image is depressing. Four hundred and seventy thousand outstanding pensions, master, subsidiary, one-off, and other cases are currently pouring into the Ministry of Labour. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And, of course, the exact answer, which will be unquestionable, will come to the House through the services of the Ministry of Labour and through the House very soon, as soon as the searches from the service are completed. What's the government doing? The Government and the Ministry of Labour immediately activated in this direction as the first priority. We had to deal with a very sensitive social category, that of the widow's pensions, for which SYRIZA stays as a night bomb brought in and legislated an empty provision, without circular, without software, giving over to the next government. We have, of course, voted for the provision. However, he also did it hypocritically and quickly, on the eve of the elections. We had and we have to manage these thousands of unfinished pensions, but we didn't put it down and we started. We have organised the Ministry of Labour's system and today I am pleased to tell you that we have immediately set up an organised, structured team, increasing by eighty-six officials - from five hundred to five hundred eighteen - who are awarding pensions. In other words, it increased by 17.2% the power to award pensions to the ECA. Secondly, in the bill that now comes on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, we have a specific provision which now stops the mobility given to the Ministry of Labour, which was there, and we stop it for another year, so that no employee can leave the ECA and remain there committed to its very strict and sensitive tasks. Thirdly, by the end of the year we will be enriching with human resources, with agencies and workers from the ECA even more this part of the pension allocation. Fourthly, I have here in my papers, Mr President, a document which is sad for the previous government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u62	Please, listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u63	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u64	No, go on, because it is the last question, but we will not make any government's programming statements or a budget debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u65	No, it's not programmatic. It is the sad image of a situation. Here I see the agreement with the institutions of the previous SYRIZA government, which, while there were those thousands of pensions in a standby situation of three, four years, comes and agrees with the institutions in the so-called 'Roadmap', updated on April 3, 2019, and states that we will reduce the staff of EVA from eight thousand six hundred thirty-four at the end of 2016 by six and a half thousand by the end of 2020, i.e. over two thousand and thirty-four less employees in EVA. That's SYRIZA's deal. That's the reality. I leave the document available to the House to see the hypocritical attitude. [[At this point, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'm closing up with two announcements. The first announcement is: Yesterday, the Ministry of Labour, through the oral Prime Minister, announced that as far as long as the long-livedness is concerned, the one we inherited in the most sensitive social category, we faced the problem and this month, sixty-five thousand, fifty-five widow's pensions will be paid and the increase from 50% to 70% will be paid. We solve this problem that we inherited more quickly than expected, because the forecast was for the end of the year. And secondly, the biggest communication, which will respond to the problem once and for all of the outstanding pensions, is that we have scheduled, we are gradually tempted that on 1 June 2020 Greece is going through a huge reform at another time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Brutsi, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u67	Pensions will now be issued digitally. The digital leap of the Ministry of Labour comes, 34.37% of the new pensions from 2020 and will gradually be digital, as we do the tax declaration and will be completed in June 2021, where 90% of the pensions will be digital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u68	When there is time, the Bureau will give both the honourable Member and the Minister a tolerance, but the timely questions are timely questions. It is neither a timely question and much more is not a presentation of any government programme. So please do not ruin it by trespassing Parliament's Rules of Procedure, saying what it says and what it says about the current questions. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor with regard to tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, the Minister spoke seven and a half minutes and did not answer the key questions I raised to him. The first question concerned the issue of widow's pensions. I will have to testify in the minutes that in May 2019 a law concerning their reinstatement was passed, but it did not exclude the three-year period 2016-2019. And Mr. Brutsis came with his circular to repeat this law - he simply repeated it - maintaining the exception. Why is the government of SYRIZA and the Government of New Democracy stealing this three-year period from people who deserve it, widows, widows and orphans? We need an explanation. 'cause you're continuing with SYRIZA's boredom. The second issue concerned the ESS and the micro-retired. In 2014 with the famous poster Hardouvelis, according to which SYRIZA's gentlemen had been campaigning for propaganda, saying that it is shameful - which provided for measures of 800m euros, from what you remember - the maintenance of the CSCE was envisaged. It was PASOK's position then in the government, and the New Democracy accepted it. We have maintained the ESS, therefore, with whatever treatment it needed for the problems that had been identified. You didn't answer whether the ESS was reinstated. It was a serious criticism of what we have been doing over the years, namely that the opposition, for the irreversible SYRIZA - ANEL government that has been abrogated by the ESS. And the third is the pension cap. Also, by order of Tsipras, the SYRIZA - ANEL government, by hand Haikalis, abolished the lower pension cap. What are you gonna do? Are you going to introduce a lower threshold? We have proposed a reasonable sum of EUR 500 which could be valid today. It was EUR 486 when it was abolished. Of course, we have to look at the issue of the extradition of specific pensions. Nor will Mrs Ahtsioglu lower the numbers, but neither will you, so that you can tell us after a while that you have done a lot of work, because the publication is of interest to us and not to what is pending and what is exactly what you think is still pending. According to the employees' federation - I believe that the figures are actually close - five thousand are left to the ECA, thirty-two thousand to the State's General Accounting Office for the relevant sectors, the subsidiary is - and, of course, Mr Metarakis - about eighty thousand pending, twenty-thousand single-handed, without including the ones for which they are not entitled to apply for the main pension. So here we have a larger number actually than the twenty thousand. For these figures, then, you have to tell us what specific you will do in addition to the general declarations. You already said two things. You have increased by eighty the employees who issue pensions and so on. It's something specific. This morning, Mr. Mitarakis said that you will not make any modifications to the Katrugalos Act despite the fact that it was your election commitment until the decisions of the Council of State arrive. And on this occasion, if you're ready, I'd say tell us a word. The Council of State examines actions relating to the amount of pensions. However, the main problem with the law of Katrugalo, i.e. the law of Tsipras, the law of SYRIZA - certainly called it the law of Katrugalo in order to bring the people to an end, rather than Tsipras and SYRIZA as a whole - is to link contributions to incomes. Here too, "hard" after the elections, Mr Brutsi. You said about a possible reduction, but while maintaining the logic of the contribution and income connection. This does not require any decision of the Council of State. He needs political will. If you're ready, tell us about it. Will you review this principle of linking contributions and incomes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u70	Don't ask the question of the timely question. You added four more questions, along with those of Mr. Metarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I spoke for four and a half minutes and two minutes in the prototype, six minutes. The Minister may need more time. We should give him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to address Mr Kegeroglu and tell him to be more careful when he talks about pending pension numbers, because the figures he mentioned deserve credibility. And I say this, Mr President, because the real numbers, the exact figures by the end of August 2019, will come and have them in his hands, Mr Kegeroglu and Parliament, once the two questions of KINAL and of the New Democracy have been answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u74	The Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u75	Because Mr. Kegeroglu is annoyed, say "Change Movement" please. And in the Minutes, where it has been said so far "KINAL" to become a "Movement Movement".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u76	I'm correcting it, Change Movement. So, very soon the House will take the exact measurements of the outstanding pensions that are of interest. Of course it's interesting. It will respond to hypocrisy and lies that have been dragged so far in the House and are not answered by the government. Secondly, for us, Mr President, the greatest section and reform that will solve pathogens for decades is digital pension. He will always respond to the embarrassing problem when someone from his working life was begging for his pension for three, four and five years. And it is a matter that concerns all governments over time. And it does not respond to human resources as much as it does the pension system. It only responds with the digital pension. And we are ready and announced in the House, we have said in the programming statements, and we have already made the first legislative initiatives in the Ministry of the Interior bill, and the second legislative initiative will come in November, with the 'Digital Pension atlas' bill, which will come the first electronic forms to be signed and with which pensioners or potential pensioners will apply. In the other questions on insurance, I would really like to confirm what the honourable Member of the Change Movement said. Indeed, the ECHR was repealed by Law No.4387/2016 and Article 92. Despite the commitments, pressures and criticism and slander, at that time on behalf of SYRIZA, a place in the House, inside and outside the House, the CSCE was definitively abolished with these provisions of the law. The government's position on insurance is clear and distinct and we have been placed with braveness and courage everywhere. We are therefore saying that there are very serious issues. The image of the insurance under the name of Katrugalo has to be changed. The areas that need to be changed are specific. These are the issues of insurance contributions that are too high. It is the question of linking the taxable person to the insurance, the conversion of the insurance into tax and many other areas. But all this will become a whole once the decisions of the Council of State are made. We won't hurry. We're not going to do business that they're going to need 'wrap it up'. In all, we will be placed, waiting for the decisions of justice and on the decisions of justice, on these tracks, we will put our own policies so that we close this pending cycle of an insurance company that is constantly pending and questioned and which constantly raises questions and appeals to justice - and rightly so - on the part of retired people. This must be stopped and stopped in this way, the clean, the decisive one, when and whenever the decisions of the Council of State are made. In total, after studying these decisions, we will be placed on the table. These are the answers I have, Mr President. I wish they satisfied. As regards the part of the basic pension, I just want to stress that today there is the basic pension, the so-called 'national', EUR 384 for twenty years and EUR 360 for fifteen years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u77	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we will resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-19-S1-commons.u78	With the consent of the House at 11.15 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 20 September 2019, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
