ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Good evening, good week, good month and Merry Christmas! We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS I would like to inform you that in his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House of the following: ‘We hereby inform you of the debate on the topical and urgent questions, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, on Monday, December 2, 2019, that the topical questions to be discussed are as follows: The numbers. 1065/3-10-2019 and 1419/22-10-2019 questions pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos. The numbers. 255/26-11-2019 and 256/26-11-2019 topical questions will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport Mr Styliani Mendonis. The numbers. 247/25-11-2019 and 257/26-11-2019 topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis." Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate on the first topical question, I would like to make some announcements. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as was the case on 29-11-2019: Criminal case law against the late Minister for the Environment and Energy Georgiou Statha and criminal case law against the Deputy Minister of Economy, Competitiveness and Shipping Panagiotis Riga. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "Under the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia in the field of social security and its Administrative Rules of Application". The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Following the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia on mutual recognition of driving licences". On 29 November 2019, the Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs, Economic and Foreign Affairs tabled a draft law: ‘Under the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia in the area of social security and its Administrative Rules of Application’. The Minister of Infrastructure, Transport, Economic and Foreign Affairs submitted a draft law on 29 November 2019: ‘Under the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia on mutual recognition of driving licences’. They were referred to the competent standing committees. Ladies and gentlemen, MP Mr Theodoros Rousopoulos is requesting a daily absence abroad on Monday, December 9, 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore approved the requested permission. And now we will be discussing the first question under number 1065/3-10-2019 of the motion for a resolution by the Member of Parliament Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Timetable of appointments in special education and education, establishment of organic posts, breakdown by industry and specialty and vacancy coverage". Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor to develop your timely question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is certain that the moratorium restrictions on recruitment have tested the strengths of the educational system, particularly in the field of special education and education, which have never been recruited on the basis of evaluation criteria, and therefore it is common belief that the placement of permanent staff is pedagogical, political and socially necessary. As a previous government, with the objective of continuous upgrading and supporting this sensitive sector, we launched permanent recruitments of four thousand five hundred teachers and other skilled personnel, and provided for in the 2019 budget and the related expenditure of 22 million. These procedures began in January 2019 and in early April relevant CSCE notices were issued, while the submission of applications expired on 24 May, and then due to the national elections, nonetheless the processing of applications continued. I say this because you were placed in a position that we had been delayed in taking the necessary steps. I have included the clear timetable for the question I have tabled to you. So, as a new political leadership, you also committed itself to election and post-election that this process will proceed. We are now five months after the takeover of the government, without permanent recruitment. We also have considerable delays in the distribution of the four thousand five hundred jobs per industry and specialisation. Special FVCs are required as you know and, as you also know, this allocation is the necessary and necessary treaty, so that the procedure can be completed when the tables are finished by the AEPC. A significant delay has arisen in tabling an amendment to create organic positions in the accession departments, which were ready in your office by the previous leadership, and which was finally voted on with some changes very recently, after five months which do not justify this delay, for any changes, as you know, because you have been annoyed as we do - there are also reasonable objections to training qualifications in positive sciences. It is also pending the establishment of organic positions of common expertise in primary education, crucial to the enrichment of the educational process. Finally, despite the completion of the third phase of subsistence recruitment, significant gaps and educational and other staff are recorded, not only in parallel support - hundreds of gaps, despite the nine thousand credits that you found scheduled - but also in the TEMPUS and the inclusion sections curiously, because, with the same number of students and exactly the same number of credits last year, there were not, at least in these gaps and operated satisfactorily staffed. I would therefore like to ask you: when is it planned to allocate the four thousand posts per sector and specialisation, namely the issue of the respective CSR and when is the permanent appointment process expected to be completed? You were committed to doing this by the end of November. We are in December and I would like to know if you will proceed in 2019 to the appointment of only the special assistant staff or the specialist scientific staff and what is provided for teachers. When in 2020? Already in the budget debate, Mr Skokakis says it will be within 2020. I would like to hear exactly when you identify it. Also, what are you going to do with the problems that have arisen in the provisional tables of the AACC notice where hundreds have been rejected - is excluded because of the non-payment of the EUR 3 paradox? Is there going to be some kind of legislation proposed by the Teaching Federation of Greece? What solution is to be found? What are you going to do with the wrong painting sent from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the S.H.I.E.L.D. who forgot to include twenty-five postgraduate degrees and these occupants are in the rejected? Finally, what action are you going to take to fill the immediate gaps recorded in all thirteen regional training offices in the country? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer Mrs. Jufi.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Jufi, first of all on the point of order, I would like to point out that the questions are different from those of time, there are some additives. However, despite the fact that it escapes the field that you yourself set out in the question, I am happy to try to answer it. I would like to point out, however, that many of the questions you have raised and of the young people have nothing to do with the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. You said something about paintings between the Ministry of the Interior and so on. These do not, as you can see, fall within the competence of the Ministry of Education. The APA is an independent authority which is subject to the Ministry of the Interior. So the questions that have to do with a timetable are purely an issue of the AACC. In any case, despite escaping the field of responsibility of the Ministry of Education, I would like to inform you of the following: We took over the leadership of the Ministry of Education on 9 July and six days later, our first priority was to meet with the ASP to see exactly the previous government that had left things. Unfortunately, at this first meeting with the AACC we found that the process was at an embryonic stage. There was hardly anything going on. That is why it is a particular impression that you are coming and bringing an issue to which the previous government has not, as should have been, speeded up, the procedures and especially for the recruitment to take place quickly. We were speeding up. In other words, we have asked for the entire procedure to be accelerated. In addition to all others, unfortunately, the AACC had a lot of issues with both laws that you voted on, Law 4589/2019 and Law 4485/2017. For example, issues with the recognition of formal qualifications and the related postgraduate degrees due to shortcomings and ambiguities in the laws you have adopted yourself. That is why, dear Mrs. Jufi, there have been so many objections. I imagine that you, too, want these objections to be examined by the competent body, namely the AACC, in depth, because we all know that behind the objections are molecules and behind the molecules are human beings. It therefore wants these objections to be examined with great care. Nevertheless, despite the unfavourable situation that we have received as government, despite the fact that there have been so many objections, we, Mrs. Jufi, remain in our word and yes, permanent appointments will take place within December 2019. The permanent appointments will begin. I had spoken about starting permanent appointments in 2019 and it still remains programming. As you may know, the procedure for the 1EA notice has already been fully completed, for example, and definitive tables have been posted. The procedures normally go on and, rather than repeat, the situation we have received, which was very original, and despite the fact that there were so many problems because of the laws passed by SYRIZA. Now on organic positions, the establishment of organic positions has already been voted on. I understand that there was no reason for this to happen too long before the permanent appointments proceeded. In any event, the relevant joint ministerial decisions relating to the allocation will be made public in the next few days. Finally, with regard to what is said about the needs of special educational staff. First of all, I would like to point out that, as far as the appropriations are concerned, the appropriations we have secured for special education are more than ever. Our government has succeeded and secured most of the credits ever. For example, we have already allocated five thousand two hundred and twenty-seven appropriations for the recruitment, precisely, of special educational staff and special assistant staff and four thousand ninety-seven appropriations for special education staff, when the numbers on your days were much lower. In particular, instead of five thousand two hundred twenty - seven anticipated by us, you had four thousand two hundred ninety - three and four thousand ninety - seven predicted by us for special - grade teachers, you had only predicted three thousand - eighteen. I should like to close, Mr President, as far as needs are concerned. I am very pleased to tell you that, after last communication between regional directorates and services of the Ministry in the special education and training units, all the necessary needs for their proper operation have been met, in the support structures of the Ministry of Education and Education, the appropriations are again much more than last year. For example, a thousand ninety credits were granted for seven hundred last year and for the Committee on Diagnostic Assessment, six hundred credits were allocated this year instead of three hundred last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u6	Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, we have had the opportunity and I am pleased to talk about the fundamental problems of special education and training. I shall table, in order not to eat all of us's precious time, the clear timetable for actions that we have advanced. I told you before 29 January 2019, the relevant FEC on the new system of appointment of teachers and other staff was published. On 12 March there had been a joint ministerial decision. An amendment on the selection issues was published on 26 March. On April 2nd, A.C.P.A.'s announcements had come out. On 8 May, the electronic submission of the applications that had expired on 24 May, and the announcement of the national elections, however, because we considered the process to be critical, we had asked the Council of State to continue the process during the election period. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Merope Jufi, presents for the minutes the abovementioned timetable for actions, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] However, this is a very important matter. I want you to clarify something, though I think I get it. You said you were going to start a bit of recruitment in 2019. Apparently, you're referring to special assistant personnel. I would like your assessment of what will be done with our special scientific staff, but also your commitment if indeed the other appointments of teachers who are too critical and which are the large volume will be made in 2020, because the preliminary draft budget refers in general to recruitment. Of course, the Minister responsible, Mr Skulakakis, has also referred to the part of special treatment. I would like your commitment to that. On the other issues you have raised, you know that these are issues which concern us, I have asked you questions. Indeed, the APA is involved, but in the end the Ministry of Education has to make a decision. There will be some type of legislation on the issue of those rejected on the paradox, because we have too much pressure. Also, I asked you something very specific that there was a mission from the Ministry to the ASAP of a painting that did not have the full list of postgraduates. Twenty-five were received and there are candidates who are indeed holders of these postgraduates and have been rejected. Obviously, there is a need for a special agreement to enable at least those who are entitled to be in the notice. Finally, I would like to say that the issue of meeting needs is indeed a agonist in special education and training, because we have a very great increase in needs. You know it, too, we know it. This is about increasing children with development disorders, which today most of them are in public schools, it is a very large number. It concerns, in particular, children with autistic disorders and the very great need for parallel support. I am pleased that you strengthened centres that can testify to this type of disturbance. But I have to tell you that last year there was a very large number of appropriations, of the six thousand, and I also know from my region, but also from other letters, that there are still demands for parallel support. However, I would also like to ask you a more specific issue, which concerns - and I mentioned it - the gaps in SEMEA and the integration departments, where we do not have an increase in apprenticeship capacity and therefore we have no increase in needs. Looks like there's gaps there too. For example, a characteristic case is the special primary school of Vonitsa that has been closed since the beginning of the school year. Such a fact has to happen at a special education school since 2014, which was of course a common phenomenon in those years. I shall end by saying that I hope that the permanent recruitment of special education, which is very much needed by all this space, will be completed next year so that we can now speak not about quantitatively, but about quality elements that this space needs very much. To talk about the possibility of early intervention and diagnosis of compulsory two-year pre-school education, which will obviously be better able to record both the needs of their children and their families and, therefore, in a much more appropriate way of shaping school needs for these children and supporting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u8	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Jufi, if the proceedings had really gone so far, then why has the AACC not been able to complete yet? So, hadn't they gone far enough? Perhaps we should tell the people who are watching us that, for example, the examination of individual issues relating to the recognition of qualifications, the relevance of postgraduate qualifications, all these issues that have arisen because, precisely, of the shortcomings, of the ambiguities, of Law 4589/2019 and of Law 4485/2017. May I remind you that there are still objections pending and ask you directly: do you not want them to be examined by the competent staff of the AACC of our teachers? You don't want them to examine in every detail whether our teachers are right to object to certain issues? We believe that these objections should be examined in depth, although, as I have said before, we have no reason to say that this is an independent authority which does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Education. I would like to tell you the same thing with regard to the issue of the transgression. The State Secretary will then answer a relevant question. It's not a matter of the Ministry of Education. It's a purely S.H.I.E.L.D. theme. Let me remind you in any event that definitive tables have already been published. So, Mrs Jufi, yes, we are, as we have said, moving forward, despite these unfavourable circumstances that we have received, to permanent appointments in the course of the year. But, Mrs. Jufi, I have something else to say to you, contrary to what your government has done. Let me remind Mr. Friend here - I see him here - that in June and September 2016 he promised twenty thousand permanent appointments of teachers. In January 2017, the Minister of State, then, Mr. Vernardakis, pledged that he had a prepared call for the appointment of teachers. We, Mrs Jufi, are very pleased to announce today that we are also moving towards permanent appointments to general education. We have already made a request to the AACC to draw up new tables of general education. So, Mrs. Jufi, we're not just making announcements, just like they did officials of your own government. We have already moved forward and move on in 2020 to permanent appointments to general education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u12	You can't take the floor. There's no staff. You're neither questions nor participants.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u13	I'm present and there's an inaccuracy. Personally, I ask why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u14	Let me tell you something else. There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u15	There is an inaccuracy here, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u16	I have the impression that I can judge if there is any staff. But Mrs. Kanelle, because she's a questioner, she wants something to report in relation to the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u17	I want to file some kind of complaint. It concerns both the relevant ministers and the House. I've asked the question about the paradox. I have been told very early that Mrs Zacharakis will answer her in her honor. My colleague's question from SYRIZA is absolutely relevant. It expanded on that. You respond as Minister to this. I wonder what part we will play in the sixth question, Mrs Zacharakis and I. I'm telling you, honestly. The House should have noticed it, and you should answer my question, or Mrs Zacharakis answered both questions. If you want to play the game because Mrs. Jufi was Minister and you are now Minister, it is another level to answer Minister to former Minister and then let your State Secretary reply to me, underestimates your State Secretary and the issue and the way in which the question was filed and answered. I'm not responsible for you. Responsibility goes primarily to the House, but you should have seen it too. They're absolutely relevant. So, after Mrs Jufi's question has been extended, I, Mr President, also have the right to extend myself to other issues to answer me by Mrs Zacharaki, who will obviously not be prepared and will not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u18	Mrs Canelli, because you have also referred to the House, I would like to tell you that the House does not determine who is answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u19	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u20	I shall say, however, what I see at first sight, without us being responsible, namely the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny. If someone reads the title, then they'll see that the first title is completely different.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u21	I have seen the texts of the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u22	The first title of Mrs Jufi's question says: 'Timetable of appointments in Special Education and Education, establishment of organic posts, division by industry and specialisation and coverage of gaps'. That's the one title. The other title, yours, Mrs. Kanellis, as far as I can tell at least Greek, is: 'Unjustice established by an announcement of the provisional lists of special actions'. Now, if Mrs Jufi added other topics in her prototype, these were not known in advance. The Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u23	You pointed it out, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u24	I pointed it out for reasons of procedure. I think there is a Rules of Procedure, which states exactly what is followed by the oral procedure or a written timely question. But, Mrs Canelli, I felt that I had to give some response signals to the public debate. Of course, the State Secretary will answer your question in detail, as has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u25	For the benefit of the public dialogue, I have said what I have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u26	If you'll excuse me, I think we're all here for the same purpose. We are to give the public as much information as we can. So, in this spirit, I answered Mrs Jufi, although she obviously did not fall within the scope of her question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u27	We move on to the second question with number 1419/22-10-2019 of the circle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagios (Giota) Pavlou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Delays in the payments of school cleaners'. Here, Mrs Pulou, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the issue I raise with my 1419/22-10-2019 question about school cleaners is very important and should concern you. However, in my question - which thirty-eight SYRIZA Members are still signing - you chose not to answer. So I come back today with a timely question and hope that the workers concerned will receive a clear answer. Madam Minister, just last Thursday, the OTA network was denounced by denouncing that more than nine thousand school-leaving machines, working daily for the cleanliness of public schools throughout the country, have remained unpaid since the beginning of the school year, in fact - they say - the Ministry of Education literally afflicts workers, as well as the Youth and Lifelong Learning Foundation, the well-known INEDIABIM, which is the body responsible for handling the payment of cleaners and is funded by your Ministry for this purpose, casts the ball of responsibility on each other by not knowing whether or not the workers will be paid. I read it to you, as published, and of course I put it at your disposal. Let me clarify - perhaps you do not know - that these cleaners are paid lump sums on the basis of the number of cleaners. In most cases their salary does not exceed EUR 350-400 a month - I refer to six-six schools - and when it comes to one-stop shop or two-stop shops, it does not exceed EUR 120 or EUR 160, respectively. Minister, who could live with a salary of 300-400 euros? Even worse, who can live and meet his family obligations if he is not paid for at all for more than three months? These workers, usually, have no other sources of income, and only a source for them and their families is this poor wage, which in addition do not receive on time, as they are already working for three months and remain unpaid. SYRIZA provided standard employment contracts for each month. Why not, at least, comply with these conventions, since the necessary appropriations are available? Is it any other planning of the government and is it thinking of entrusting the cleanliness of schools to private contractors, as we have seen with hospitals and municipalities? Do you intend, Minister, to renew the two-year contracts of school cleaners drawn up in SYRIZA and end in June 2020? Overall, what is government planning? Do you intend once again to expose the municipalities and their school committees to an irregular payment under the pressure of this fair request, so that they do not make Christmas unpaid? Anyway, the only thing for sure is that the question cannot be answered any more. You have an answer to the nine thousand school cleaners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u29	The Minister has the floor for her prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much for the question and for the opportunity, which you are giving me to respond to an issue that has taken place in years and repeated micro-political exploitation by Civic Opposition, and I would say that it has been particularly distorted in recent years. You're asking about payments to school cleaners. I want to remind you of this because you're asking why they haven't been paid. May I remind you that on 10 June - where were we on 10 June? - We were in a pre-election period, there was an election call. SYRIZA, a government at that time, accidentally joins at that time, in the middle of an election, the school cleaners in the heavy and unhealthy professions and did very well. But did he obtain the credit to pay just this change of regime? No, it's the answer. It is an astonishing impression that he has done so in an election period, namely for purely electoral reasons and has not taken care of it - if he really cares about the employment status of school cleaners - so as to provide for the necessary appropriations exceeding EUR 1 000 000 for the payment of these workers. So why are we talking about this today? We are talking for two reasons. Firstly, because your government had not predicted any money for the integration of school cleaners into the heavy and unhealthy professions. Secondly, I would like to inform you that the competent body, INEDIABIM, had recommended for your day that an additional year be included in last year's joint ministerial decisions. This has not been accepted by your government, with the result that the relevant NCAs, regarding the determination of the maximum number of hours of employment for the work of school cleaners and CRAs, on how to manage financing with contractors, cleaners and cleaning workshops, have not come out. So, as a government, we have covered all the things you have left, that is to say, we have found money to cover the heavy and unhealthy things you have not predicted - you have only made the transition without finding the money, that is, only by voting without having secured the credit - and we have made the necessary joint ministerial decisions. Already, I'm telling you, payments are being made. Within a month, therefore, if the municipalities respond, as we hope, the payment due to school cleaners will be completed, which was delayed by the previous government of SYRIZA and its choices.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u31	Mrs Pulou has the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u32	Madam Minister, I would like to inform you that just before this position I was in the position of Mayor Livade, therefore there were these problems, but there were also the proposals that were made to resolve the issue of these late payments. However, the cleaning of school units for the school year 2019-2020 is in a document, which has left on August 27, 2019, for the preparation of the municipalities. This was therefore mentioned to the municipalities in order to update all these contracts. The contracts have a two-year duration on the one hand, and, on the other, these expenditure on the budget was provided for. So, for the delay you are saying - and I do not like the way you are approaching, let me say it is not a vote, it is workers' rights, because you said that SYRIZA did this for voting reasons - SYRIZA, finally coming out of the memoranda, Minister, could now have a place to make fair demands for the workers and that is what he did. Also, Minister, the SYRIZA Government may not have resolved this issue, but has taken a number of measures in the difficult budgetary conditions. It was foreseen that the school cleaners contracts would have a duration of two teaching years instead of a special website where the municipalities would have to send all the necessary data from the school committees to speed up the payment process of school cleaners, it was foreseen that they would be paid for the cleaning of public spaces, and even standard employment contracts were drawn up, where payment per month is foreseen. You run now, though. What SYRIZA did is judged and now you're judging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u33	The Minister has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much. I talked about a vote, why? I agree with you, the government has done very well and has included this category of workers in heavy and unhealthy. But when you do this without seeing it in credit, I'm sorry, but what is that then? You only do it on paper? You spoke about rights and quite rightly, and I agree with you, rights issues are, but rights on paper, if you have not predicted how you will pay for this change of regime, change to heavy and unhealthy. If SYRIZA really cared about this, he would have taken care of this change that made it accompanied by the necessary money. Why did SYRIZA do? He made the change and sent the account to the next, without guaranteeing the credit. We therefore had to fight under unfavourable economic conditions to find the appropriations and find them. We got credit. What you promised without a reflection, we did. We have found the necessary money in order to enable this change of category to take place and to allow school cleaners to go through the category of heavy and unhealthy. But you did not answer the other question. You did not say why, while INEDIBIM on your own days, it was suggested that an additional year should be included in the CSCE, so that we are not in an adverse position, the government did not accept it. He didn't accept it. So, as I have already said, we have found the necessary money to do the real protection of these workers, and we have ensured that the procedures are in place so that the necessary joint ministerial decisions can be made and that the workers are regularly paid for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. We are moving on to the third with number 255/26-11-2019, a topical question from the first cycle of MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Culture and Sport, on the subject: “Explosive activity in Skouria and the recent decision of the Central Archaeological Council (CSC)”. Mr Arsenis has the floor to first.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, I welcome you to the Chamber. This is a very well-known issue and it is huge. It is huge, precisely because the archaeological significance of the findings in Skouria is incalculable and has not yet been appreciated how important this metallurgy centre can be, which we did not know, which was found there and seems to be a great extent. Also, it seems to have characteristics similar to those of Lavrio and it causes very great interest. Ladies and gentlemen, it would never have been possible to approve the mining work in Skouria if it were to be in the knowledge of scientists from the start. The entire licence was based on an opinion of the Deputy Professor from the Aristotle University, Mr. Faklaris, who said they were transported, that is, the findings have been transported there from elsewhere, and in fact the monument is not on site. On this basis, the study of environmental impacts, and so on, was based. But then we have the services to say again and again that these findings are very important and must be maintained. Starting in August 2006, Mrs Lillian Achilaras and the Educacy of Prehistoric Antiquities, say that in Skouria an ancient mining activity has been identified, that the Skouria region is protected by the archaeological law and should not be developed there. Subsequently, again from the same, in 2007, we learn that Skouries are protected under the archaeological law, there is a great density of slag, ovens, nourishment from antiquity and along with Lavrio are a privileged field of research, uniquely in Greece to such an extent and speaks of the possibilities of developing an open museum and organising historical tourism in north-eastern Halkidiki, suggesting that mining should not take place there. So it is reasonable to ask: How then does the CAS come after an autopsy, and says not to go ahead with the work, to stay there the antiquities until at least the part of the metallurgy is decided? Now the CSA is coming over your days, and suddenly, before it ends in S.H.E.L.D. Metallurgy decides to be seconded. Many questions and top is, will this process stop before damage occur?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u37	The question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Mendoni. Mrs. Mendoni, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr President, for the question, although things are not exactly like that. First of all, I think it is insulting for the archaeological service and for the excavators themselves, who are not the responsible Antiquities Officers of Halkidiki, to say that the whole evaluation and secondment is due to the opinion of a professor from the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. It's not exactly like that. I assume you know that during the period 2012-2014 there was a survival excavation carried out in the Skouria position. After the slag and all the remains of ancient metallurgy were removed, which were mobile and accumulated there, pits, passalopes and building founding sections were revealed, which indeed bear witness to the installation of ancient copper metallurgy. From 2014 until 2019, in essence, the view of the Ministry of Culture was pending for the fate of these antiquities, which I repeat were pits, pascalholes and building founding sections. On 22 October 2019 the Ministry of Environment and Energy informed the Ministry of Culture and Sport that there is no authorisation for mining in Skouria, except for the Ministry of Culture. It was therefore clear from the law that the matter had to be introduced into the Central Archaeological Council. The services themselves, the editor of antiquities, the excavation, the responsible address recommended to the Central Archaeological Council, the Department of Prehistoric and Classical Antiquities and the seventeen members of the Central Archaeological Council, consulted in order to extract this foundation of the building in Area A and in part the stone floor in Area B, because the state of their preservation was such that it allowed the transfer to the post "Cononaire", where it had previously been transferred from the past, a excavated prototype Byzantine facility and could therefore create a small museum site. I repeat, according to the office of antiquities and the Ministry's responsible address, the residues could not be maintained by country due to the state of its conservation: pitfalls and canals opened on natural soil. You know, always an excavation produces valuable findings for science. However, it is not all the findings that can be shown. Their retention status is the one which dictates probability. In addition, in your question you mention that the practice of 2016 was not taken into account. Of course the Central Archaeological Board and the address recommended took the practical into account. The second point to which you refer is that these antiquities could be transferred. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] In my dentistry, in order not to take valuable time, I will tell you that what you say in your question, the Central Archaeological Board decided otherwise than in the past, is not the case. I only note two things and I'll come back. The Central Archaeological Board shall not adopt implementing acts. These are published by the Minister of Culture. The Central Archaeological Board shall deliver an opinion. It's an advisory body. From there beyond 2015, in essence 2014, completed the excavation, the Central Archaeological Council never delivered an opinion on the fate of antiquities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the Parliament is organized and operated, sixty students and students and three educational sessions from the Greek College of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides]] I give the floor to Mr. Kritonas Arseni for his denial. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I obviously respect the work of archaeologists very much and precisely because I respect this question. I fear that the procedure followed does not fully respect the work of archaeologists and you are clear. You have shown the Minister of Development as responsible, as this decision was based on a false element. It is not just the archaeological decision on this "investment". Others call this investment what's going to be done in Halkidiki. What is pending is the decision of the Council of State on the part of metallurgy and is important for two reasons: firstly, because it is an integral project, it is the main part of the mining block, it is a part of the overall approval received by the project and the environmental impact study. If he didn't have that kind of metallurgy, he wouldn't have been authorized. And secondly, because it is the only part of this "investment" that will give any benefit to Greece. Only if the metallurgy took place, this "investment" - otherwise - would leave some revenue to the public. Without this metallurgy, we have deprived these people, right now, from their health, from their forests, from their water. We deprive them of their cultural heritage and their memory and leave nothing to the economy, even the funds of Athens. So the essence of the project is metallurgy, and therefore the Central Archaeological Board, had decided, after the autopsy, not to take any decision until the decision in the Board of State for Metallurgy is finalised. And yet he came to make a decision now, all of a sudden, and you explained to us that this sudden happened because you received a letter from the Ministry of Development that falsely says there is nothing left. However, metallurgy is still pending. That is why I ask you - and we ask you as a PART25 - to revert the case to the Central Archaeological Council, at least until the metallurgy is decided. I think it would be a great evil for archaeology in Greece, for an area that can be of great importance. We didn't know him, we found him, we found him, and as the archaeologists say, if we knew him, that mining would not initially be approved there. This investment, in our view, is a disaster.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u41	The Minister has the floor for dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u42	Mr Arseni, I appreciate your sensitivities, but the Council of State has ruled. There are two decisions of 2019, number 1531 and number 1532, published on 20 August 2019. The Council of State accepted an equal number of applications for annulment of the company against the failure of the Minister for the Environment of the Government of SYRIZA to examine the company's request for the extension of the permit for the installation of electromechanical equipment for the auxiliary installations and services of the sub-Skouri and Olympiad and referred the case back to the administration. There is therefore no case-law and the matter is again in the services of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. In any case, however, as I have not shown the Minister for Energy, as you said, I will not speak about the powers of another Ministry. The Central Archaeological Council, with the recommendation of the Greek Antiquities Department, Halkidiki, i.e. the excavations and the relevant directorate, gave an opinion on accepting their own proposal. And this proposal was the extraction of these antiquities, because it could not be in the situation that it was intended to be maintained in the open space. The Central Archaeological Board therefore gave an opinion independently of what concerns the Ministry of the Environment, with the sole axis of Law 3028/2002 and its competence to protect antiquities. I would just like to point out that this issue was introduced in 2015 twice at the Central Archaeological Council and which, at the time, decided to postpone for additional information and postpone the decision of the Board. - the decision was adopted - in 2016, again decided to defer autopsy, second time in 2016, after the autopsy, again requesting deferral for the adoption of a decision on the technical report under Decision 319/2015 of the Council of State. So there is no legality. The Central Archaeological Council, as well as the departments of the Ministry of Culture, the Directorates and the Industries, are primarily concerned with protecting antiquities. With the secondment the ancients are protected and not just protected, because their secondment is carried out in the appropriate archaeological way, but they can, together with antiquities that have been seconded in a previous phase and with mobile finds, create a small museum space and thus contribute to the preservation of memory and the promotion of the cultural heritage of the inhabitants of the region and not insult it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u43	We continue with our second question with No 256/26-11-2019 on the second time question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Showing the Archaeological Walk of the Holy Road". Before the children leave the Chamber, I would like to tell them that at the moment in Parliament there is no legislative work, but parliamentary control, that is, the Member is asking questions and the Minister is answering. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, once again, metallurgy cannot be adopted very simply because this method in the company's study does not apply, the flash melting. But let's go to the next question. It's a question we're trying to find a common place for. We're talking about the Holy Street. I believe that you know too much about this and it is an area that you too love. It is the most virgin part that we have left from this route, from the Acropolis to Elefsina, which is easier to see what this area was like in ancient times. It was found monuments: We have the monument of Pythoniki, we have the Monastery of Dafni with the ancient Temple of Apollo, opposite the Holy Aphrodite, below to the lakes of the Reites, the one left of us. There is a set of large pieces located in situ of the ancient Holy Road. It is a lot of conservation problems, especially for the part of the road of the Holy Road, which is in many cases unprotected. And there is a great opportunity, if you want a vision, which I myself feel completely and there are residents in the area, but also local actors, who demand that this space there become an archaeological walk, be the second most important destination for every visitor in Athens after the Acropolis, a archaeological walk where one can tour from a monument to a monument, in a natural environment. It is one of the most naturally preserved places on the Sacred Road. I think it's gonna be a necessary stop for every visitor in the city. That is why I urge you and I ask you, with this question, to undertake to start the necessary steps to achieve these work on the creation of this archaeological walk, but also the sustainable activities for the individual monuments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u45	Here you go, Minister, answer your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Arseni. I think we will not disagree here, just in relation to your question, I would like to point out the following. You say that the various movements of citizens have taken an interest in this matter. I must say that as I was uploaded to the service record, the services told me only about a request from a private geologist. This is not particularly important, and I mention it simply for the order of things. As you say, in 2016-2017 the Ministry of Culture participated in an interministerial group of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy together with the Municipality of Elefsina and the Region of Attica to draw up a management plan for the "Resolution Study, Demonstration of Archaeological Areas and Monuments with urban regeneration elements". This study was carried out at the request of the Municipality of Elefsina and the implementing body of the Ministry of the Environment. This study, among other things, proposes the emergence of the Sacred Road from its beginning at the Sacred Gate of the area of Keramikos to its end in the archaeological site of Elefsina. Although the final proposals of this working party were unofficially tabled - from what the Ministry of Culture confirmed today - on January 25, 2019 - I did not understand why they were unofficial, but all right, then there was another government - that is to say, until the elections this particular study, this master plan, did not involve anyone, it was not introduced into the Central Archaeological Council, so there is no ministerial decision. So that's where we have a time deficit. Also, since 2018, the responsible Western Attica Antiquities editor discussed with the Western Athens Development Association to make a programme contract that would again highlight the Holy Street within the Botanical Garden. This programme contract was never signed and remained on a elaboration plan until the July elections. On the other hand, in 2018 the previous government joined the Public Investment Program concerning Elefsina and to some extent the Holy Road, which are incompatible with the master plan. You see, we had things that were quite difficult to manage for the very simple reason that the serious issue of the emergence of the Holy Road had not been addressed as it should have been and that any studies on the central councils and the archaeological and newer monuments had not been introduced. Anyway. That's for the story. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] It's about what we're doing today. First of all, I will begin with the second question concerning the monument of Pythioniki and the Holy Aphrodite. Indeed, it is a series of monumental sites that need intervention. We have already planned the interventions in these areas and are currently working on the studies by the relevant departments of the Ministry in order, if you like, to make it ready in 2021 because of the "Eleskina Capital of Culture", because a route is actually being created from Keramikos and Aegeleos to end up in the archaeological site of Elefsina. We believe that, thanks to the services of the Ministry of Culture, we will indeed be able to implement this programme. I am just saying one thing, and I close: Fortunately, at the NSRF 2014-2020 of Attica there is the work of fixing, restoring and highlighting the archaeological site of Elefsina with a guaranteed budget of more than one and a half million, which at least ensures the emergence of the last section of the Holy Road located in the archaeological site of Elefsina. I don't want to abuse time. I'll come back to my dentistry to tell you all the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u47	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, I am pleased that you are watching and that you have already taken an interest in this matter. What's the difference with what you're suggesting? While we really need to see the individual monuments, here we have the opportunity of a whole. Rarely we have at one point so important for the history of this place, such as the Holy Street, so many monuments that are next to the other and united with natural environment, where one can actually imagine one walk in nature, entering the garden of Diomedes, seeing the monument of Pythoniki, moving a little further, reaching the Daphne Monastery, passing towards the Temple of Aphrodite, going down to the lake of the Reites. There are the caves which also have their own historical significance. It is a whole, and in Greece we miss these totals, as much as in the wider Athens area. It's worth seeing that. I sincerely believe that there can be an important attraction for the visitor of Athens. It is something we must dare to see as a whole. Obviously, we need to go to life and see in particular the part of the Holy Road and the monument of Pythioniki because of the activities around this area. I also speak of the great part of the Holy Road just under the Temple of Aphrodite, which has a intense commercial activity next to it and is at risk in many ways. Also, we need to see the pieces of the background of the road of the Sacred Road that are intertwined on the mountain. They are large sections which can be protected and made a piece that can be remaked by the visitor, so that the visitor has reason to remain further in Athens, so that the inhabitants of western Athens and the whole of Athens can enjoy a walk in nature and in a special historical environment. This is what has been missing from this region of western Athens, which is so degraded otherwise for environmental reasons. He has the right to be the heart of Athens again, and this place just highlights this opportunity that should not be lost. If we don't get the works to the "Eleisina Cultural Capital", let's start them, let's announce them, let's put them on the scaffold. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u49	The Minister has the floor for her denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u50	Mr Arseni, we do have the individual monuments that are on the way from Aegaleo to Elefsina, and we also have the sections of the Sacred Road that are saved, which constitute a whole. I didn't mean we'd do what we do by 2021. Obviously, we want some things to be accessible and attributed in 2021, because of the cultural capital. That doesn't mean that if it takes more time, there won't be any. After all, the NRW I mentioned to you too and occupying the last section of the Sacred Road has a deadline for the completion in 2022. Evidently, they are interested in launching these works. Apart from the individual monuments, in fact starting from the station of Aegaleo, where the burials of the bridge on which the Holy Street was started, we have about 200 fifty meters of the Holy Road - somewhere in the park, I don't know exactly what it is called, it's after Aphaia a toy facility that exists - which is saved in good condition. We also have the Bridge of the Eleusian Liquid. Then, moving towards Elefsina, in the area of Agios Zacharia, the Archaeological Service has already started work there. The very square of Heroes is on the Sacred Road and it is a very important part that could emerge - and this is provided for in the master plan mentioned above - the entrance to the archaeological site. In fact, we have several points in the Holy Way that - as I say - our intention is to restore and signify and ultimately well-found and ultimately at least to have a digital guide, a digital map, but - and wherever possible - conventional versions to be accessible and accessible through the information, the Holy Street and the individual monuments, where possible, because it is really important to highlight this cultural route. I would have a reservation as to how natural the environment is, such as in the Daphne or the Temple of Aphaia. Of course, in the other regions, it seems that the natural environment is missing. Anyway, that's not the point. In the part concerning the Holy Way, the services of the Ministry of Culture have already been launched and they must continue their study work, in order to launch the next steps to highlight the sections that can be emerged and which have been saved to date. Thank you for the question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Mendoni. We move to the first, with number 247/25-11-2019, a timely question for the first cycle of MEP I of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Continue to secondary education schools in the Region of Central Macedonia". Here, Mr Giannoulis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. I thank the Minister for his honour today in this House. But you know - I will not personally charge it to Mrs Zacharakis - from the position and the arguments of the Minister of Education, Mr Kerameaus, I understand that the government's account of education and other issues is the bad previous government, the miraclemaker of the new government. And because I was trying to understand, everything else, all right. But why in education can't we agree on a common place for what a child means not to have a teacher in his classroom? What is it that prevents us? From what I have understood, Mrs Zacharaki, we are being prevented from being really ideology, not from the topicality through the Head of Government or his substitutes - Mr Samaras - but because SYRIZA has tabled six topical questions or questions to Parliament about Evros, Dodecanese, Lebanese, Marathon, Crete and Magnesia, and in my protagonism that we have had to update the gaps here so far. We have now reached the fifth phase of subsistence recruitment. In short, I tell you that in central Macedonia, eastern Thessaloniki, western Thessaloniki, but also in the remaining six counties of the region of Central Macedonia there are still eighty-six empty educational posts. That means kids who don't teach. In special treatment - which Mrs Canellell will soon develop and then - the gaps in total are thirty-two teachers. I am very sensitive to this because I hope it will not get worse. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Giannoulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But I would like to ask you something, Mrs Zacharakis. Because I am watching with interest, attention and respect for your positions, but also the answers to the SYRIZA parliamentary control I mentioned, six figures, I would ask you very much to bear in mind that it is time to tell the truth about our children and not our parties. I am referring to this because at the time of the crisis, what is being observed in schools today was not. This is the first time that even politically opposed to SYRIZA parents, teachers that there has been no precedent in recent years with what is happening in shortcomings. You are, of course, supporting me to prevent or to restore to the memory of those who are listening to us - at least to the Chamber, I hope much more than the Canal of Parliament - that pre-school education has made it difficult for a hundred and sixteen municipalities in the country. Of course, I want to tell you it was a parental request and it is about primary education, but it is something that happened for good and not bad. You also claimed that the addition of the Higher School Orientation Group created few parts on the ground. What's wrong with it, and why can't we cure it from July when you took over the administration? It was created, because in the third grade, as you very well remember, because you are younger than I am, however, surely all students are trying to support their introductory process. Mandatory seven hours in the directional course and the launch of needs in some specialties. Also, where's the bad? The hours of guidance courses were increased from five to seven, but the two hours of general education were reduced. These are the points that have overthrown your rhetoric so far. You are also saying that double moleculosis has been abolished for alternates. Of course, but you are not answering us - and today you must respond - because the study you show in the third phase does not show it in the first phase to have results. I'm not going to go on. There are other points. I would like to ask you for the following: let us get into fact, let us leave political or party confrontation. They are children coming home and saying with a disarming sincerity: "We haven't learned again today."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u53	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u54	Mr Giannoulis, you will allow me, because I do believe that education is a very important area and - indeed, I have said so many times in this House - not an area, if you would like to have any prerogatives, not to set any other parameters, as you have tried to do at the beginning of the idea of other issues and to remain exactly at the heart of the question. Because we are interested in what is actually happening in the classroom, in the school unit, over where the heart is beating and where the pulse of the school process takes place this year - and that, if you want to, check it out - it has become the biggest first phase of subservient recruitment. In general, over twenty thousand people have been placed in primary, secondary and immediately thereafter, we have moved very quickly - and because you are watching, I see, very closely parliamentary control - in the next phase of subsistence recruitment. On 6 September it was the first phase, the second phase on 30 September. The additional phase of subsidization was on October 14, shortly thereafter, on November 6, six thousand six hundred twenty-nine primary and secondary teachers went to schools. We proceeded immediately after additional intake of substitutes, by special invitation of those who did not go to pick up or of those who resigned or withdrawn the placement. I have already asked for the remaining gaps throughout Greece from Friday, so that I can go ahead. At the end of the week, I hope I will catch up on Friday, if not on Monday, to send the numbers that schools will ask us to do. But, Mr Giannoulis, because all that you have said, the reasons for the explosion of the gaps exist, are not questioned by anyone, I would like to remind you that, while they also raised the number, there were no corresponding appropriations. The fact that we have now gone to such a broad first stage of subsidization and we have moved quickly - for which, the truth is that I thank the services of the Ministry of Education, the regional directorates and the directorates with which we have managed to do this - has something to do with a government study to find the necessary funds to move from the PIP to the necessary money so that we can hire substitutes and get to talk about the limited shortcomings and needs that exist throughout Greece. Since you do not like comparison with the past - and I will agree that we have to go to this for this - I will prove with one element, if I may be allowed, during the reply, how much difference the gap might have had in special treatment last year. Why is that so? Because no one is taking it, Mr Giannoulis. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] And I'll admit, we made it better than the others. However, we will have to get to a point of maturity, which is to say that some things and some mistakes, which have been made in the past, are not repeated or they too, through an experience they are acquired, we will try time, so that the times of subsidization are more timely, but also to move on to this very important thing that our Minister of Parliament has just announced today, the recruitment, the appointment of teachers and general education, which had become a promise, but almost an urban myth, by the SYRIZA ministers, who each year were committed to recruiting permanent staff in general and never became a reality. I will move on to this because I would like to quote the figures for your region and, in general, for central Macedonia. The gaps which immediately after the last invitation were declared were seventeen. I expect the regional director to send the updates up to Wednesday. So I can also answer if you want me to come here or answer you in writing. It's within forty-eight hours anyway. But right now, I have the words in front of me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u55	What I have submitted is up-to-date.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u56	There is information from the regional management that there is full coverage - and that is important - for the other regions, which was a challenge, in the universally tested courses. It means, thankfully, that these teachers who went, through the recurring phases of subsidizing, cover the need for children in globally tested courses, and that is important. The same regional training directorate has proceeded to eleven calls of interest in order to meet internal needs in the region. For parallel support - because you made special reference to special treatment, which is why you have increased interest - fifty-seven teachers were sent on 11 November, just the ones who were asked for, two did not take over at the moment, because you know that this number is dynamic, depending on the opinions that come out of the ERCF, we expect to see what the new needs are. They place them that they're about sixteen. Of course it remains here, Mr Giannoulis, and there is a question of appropriations. Let's see, in other words, exactly what we have right now, so that we can cover up. In the special treatment units, report if I'm not wrong a hundred and thirty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u57	One hundred thirty-two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u58	One hundred thirty-two. This is where I wanted to make a little comparison and you will allow me, although at first you tried to prevent me. Last year, the corresponding period, that is, we had an eighty - eighty - one gap. When we talk about the needs that you are talking about now, we have within all the special schools and support, but also the integration departments. We are therefore making an effort so that we can meet the needs of special education as much as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u59	The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u60	Yes, Mr. President. Mrs. Jufi made a reference to the special Vonicas school. In my dentistry, I should also like to refer to that, if you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u62	I have told you from the outset that I will not charge it as a rhetoric, nor as a political choice what I mentioned about Mrs Keramea. But you know, Minister, I would like with great interest to get to the source of what he described. In other words, we have a good situation, saying that the miraculous New Democracy government has found the resources and appropriations for the recruitment of permanent staff in secondary education. He forgot to tell us where. He has failed to identify, reach the real answer to the question, because - I do not hide it from you and I do not say it with political controversy - the credibility of the government is being tested, and I insist, significantly lately. Would it be such a great deal of trouble to her - while she already enjoys privileged treatment by changing even the order of questions tabled and timely questions - to tell us this'miracle' how the money was found for the appointments that will be or will begin in 2019? I ask that in good faith, and my question is a good one. All of what I mentioned before had been included in your arguments on gaps. I am very pleased to hear the commitment. Clearly, and SYRIZA has made mistakes. It would be foolish for me to say that there were no mistakes from the previous government. This gives me the right to listen with satisfaction to the self-critical element, that next year you will try not to have this delay, or to discuss December for students who in the third grade have not done an hour in mathematics. But I really want to tell you that in the inconsistency of 'we are hiring thousands of people, but the problem is not solved', there is something that you should also look for at regional level. They're your direct associates. But I do not know how to solve the fact that it is rather difficult to collect accurate data. We can't have that long. I referred to the fifth phase of recruitment with these figures. Leave the Special Education that will be developed in particular. This can't be the case, there's so much distance. I would like to tell you that a thousand teachers are recruited, because the heart of the problem is rather the design, planning and development of these recruitments. Although, for example, a thousand teachers have been hired, the three hundred do not appear in the third phase and it takes at least one month to renew the recruitment of these three hundred who did not come to their duties. That's probably something you should see as a ministry. However, SYRIZA's respect for man - education and education also has another dimension. They are the people who form our children in public school and we must also recognise to them that we will keep us as a sacred value obligation - as we have arrived in this country to say that, if you don't have money, you die, and if you don't have money, you can't go any further - not get to the point of saying that, if you don't have money in this country, you don't even have a form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u63	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Giannoulis, in answer to SYRIZA's respect for teachers, I would expect a dose of self-criticism. Because if you respect the teacher, you do not cut the double molecules into the inaccessible, and this year they will have been placed, with the approval of Parliament's appropriations and, as you have said, with the possibility of using human resources. It is six thousand six hundred twenty-nine in general education and a thousand sixty-seven those who do not accept, which means that the dual-insulation mobilisation is gone. And that was a specific political choice. Of course, what should be done is what we are currently working with working groups at the Ministry of Education, so that we can heal this issue if it is cured - that is what we are looking for - but for the deputy it is easier for the decision to get up and go wherever is called by the agency to go. Because when he learns it slowly, the truth is that family planning cannot be done. So the first commitment is to speed up the recruitment of alternates. A second commitment is cooperation with the municipalities and with the CEDEFOP. We are already doing this, and we have said it several times in the House, and I repeat my position here. We want the assistance of the municipalities, so that food and housing, especially in areas that are either inaccessible and isolated, or are very difficult in terms of rent accuracy, to put back on. This will enable these children - who have started up children over 10 - 15 years and more than 15 years - to have the necessary support. I must answer for musical schools, because you have also recorded your anxiety. Music schools in general last year had a thousand two hundred twenty - one gaps. At the end of the school year four hundred and seventy-two posts were covered, there were thirty-seven revocations. This year we have a thousand hundred and sixty gaps and eight hundred jobs, that is, significant support for musical schools, have already been covered. We still have room. I think that in the next phase we will be able to meet more needs. For Central Macedonia there was a hundred blanks, there were forty-three intakes, with a few resignations, and there we have emphasised the next phase. Mr Giannoulis, you have made a final reference to self-evident support for public education. I repeat that we will be next to the Greek teacher, who wants to train at the same time. She hasn't been trained at all in recent years. So it needs and is warm and it feels like accepting this training that we will introduce very soon. At the same time, we will trust him more, we will trust the school unit, the Greek teacher and the manager in order to enable all the children standing across from this man to accept the highest level of education they deserve. We will, however, agree, in the essence of your question that time must also be improved and improved, starting from next year. And we will of course be here to assess it. For Vonitsa's school, they've been sent twice as educated and left. He was sent again by the training director of a permanent teacher, he left again. We're moving forward and acceding to the attempt to fill the gap. So we've had three resignations so far, Mrs. Jufi, at the Vonitsas special school.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u65	We are completing the cycle of the current questions for today under number 257/26-11-2019, the topical and urgent question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelles, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Eferences identified by the announcement of the provisional tables of Special Education". Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I'd be beg that the timer doesn't count just for something, so I don't sound too much or complaining. Because I have twenty years in here, I would like to make this right. Mrs. Jufi was not PASOK Minister, she was SYRIZA Minister. Lapsus linguae because of the news of the days. Exquisitely easy and well-appointed, so that we do not find ourselves intimidating about a level of opposition that is at least lower than me and Mrs Jufi and the present ones. Secondly, Mr President, I was told to be here at 18.00, because my question would be one of the first. In the middle of the day, I was notified to come at 18: 30. My question has been found lately. I am not at all concerned about sitting in Parliament for an hour and a half. I would just like to say that parliamentary scrutiny should take precedence over the way in which Members are tabling this report. We do so in order to make it easier for the ministers to answer questions, no matter what content I am talking about now. But when there are connections to the Ministry of Education, it would be better if both ladies were present and the Minister of Culture had not intervened, so that one Minister would leave, the other would be left. Put the timer to count, please, too, to start out of the procedural procedures the essence of my question. Suddenly, when I learned her, I began to wonder. I'm telling you, honestly. I began to wonder how suddenly a thousand hundred and eighty-three educated people, with degrees and postgraduates, were found in my - let them forgive me - foolish position not to have paid a paradox of 3 euros - not that the 3 euros are indulgent nowadays, but in any case - to look for jobs, people in danger of losing it for the next three years. First of all, one hears that something has been going on for three years in a notice, one of what governments like to date. In fact, I wonder why the current government that wants to have a more electronic and modern approach to things is continuing. In fact, therefore, the notice made in January 2019 and will be finalised as a list in December 2019, the work of the three-year period includes that year until finalisation of the tables. So we've been talking for two years, we're not talking about three, so we can start over there. Secondly, I have heard the Minister say - before I get to the injustices - that 3 euros is not the case of the Ministry, it is the case of the SAPA. I should like to inform you that as long as they were listening to us, people who complain about the 3 euros told me that they were going to make a statement about the 3 euros at the ASP and the ASP told them "go to the Ministry of Education, it's none of my business". So we got into a ball. It is therefore a matter of interpretative procedure. Now, what has happened to the 3 euros? There are people who - and look, there are not few, there are a thousand hundred and eighty-three - lose the right, even in the general positions to return, because they have participated and entered lists. They didn't get into anyone. They permanently lose the right to the 3 euros. What happened? There's nothing wrong with them. They came a paper, an email to fill in the paradox, to give IBAN. They gave IBAN, the proceedings proceeded. They had to pay it at the bank or by e-banking the 3 euros. Not completed. However, they took part in the notice having taken a number, which was considered a valid number to take part in the notice. In any case, this is an injustice which is illusory, clear and relates to the quality of the contract notice. The quality of the notice was like the laws that have been preceded, especially in the field of education, deeply contemptuous about the process of education. I strongly insist on this. As if it was a statement of special political needs and not of special education. It was an election, with ambiguities, full of possibilities to misunderstood. I am bringing an example of what exists within the law and the notice, so that people can understand us, beyond the three euros for which it is unreasonable to speak. They've given extensions and extensions for more and more. It should be corrected. Because the APA has already accepted - to inform you - correction to the wrong number of those who formally paid the 3 euros. So even to them he accepted the correction that they were wrong about the number, but he accepted that they paid and made the number wrong. So it's something that can be cured. And it can be remedied interpretably, with a small regulation, with whatever you want, before the end of the year. One of the prisoners. Secondly, very important. You have accepted an unreasonable thing. I can't explain that. Nobody's gonna understand, I'm telling you. There are people who have transferred their pre-service to general education for all months, without having been given posts, in special education. And they carried it together, without having served one day or had experience, having the other formal qualifications. The way this was done, as it is in the notice, paranoidly, has people with seventeen years in special education who are "flying" two thousand places down on the list. I mean, there's a man of molecules who could be in position ten and be in position of two and a half thousand in the notices for seventeen years. Is it or isn't the children's priority in special education? And the Minister comes with the consent of the colleague questioned here, and says that the timetables should be respected. But timelines from irrationality are blown into the air. For example, there are people who have not been honest - since we are talking about a time of e-government, right? - the "yes" button in school specialty - if anyone can understand me, the "yes" button - having a degree, considering that it's unreasonable since they have also stated to the Ministry - to the UCLAF, you know what I mean - and to the electronic that they have a degree. Well, they wouldn't participate in the competition if they didn't have a teacher's degree! It should be noted that in the notice of invitation to tender there were no detailed additional instructions. At a time when everyone deals with Facebook, fascist books, posting, downloading posters, these people cannot be unskilled in supplementing or being softened not to fill in the box! And there are people thrown into unemployment, losing the right to work. Because I've heard the Minister say he'll make a post notice in general. I'm fine! People will be excluded for a series of things. They lost the right to twenty molecules for their degree for a click on a button. Before you fill it, I would be beg, by summarising, the following: There are a number of injustices. I also have paintings to testify to you. From here you can control people who will be found with zero and general and special pre-services, leading others with years of pre-service, that is a hundred months, two months. These cannot be considered reasonable, with the pretext of maintaining a timetable. And I don't want to believe someone wants to do that. What can I tell you? - You want to have a rough time, do you want a hurry, do you want an interpretative failure? But the Ministry cannot intervene to correct manifest injustices. That's a request, it's a requirement, it's a request. Whatever last name you put on it, it's a battle. Because special treatment is of paramount importance, the acquisition of a relationship between people who were, for example, substitutes for too many years and will suddenly be unsuccessful from the list, because something has not been done properly, something has not been completed properly, something has not been properly proclaimed and something has not been interpreted correctly. I apologise for being analytic. I have to testify. That's for the Minister to answer. And if I have any questions, I'll fill in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u67	The Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u68	Mrs Canelli, you have raised an extremely topical issue, which, as you can see, we are receiving every day at the Ministry of many requests. As opposition, this process and the specific statement are the truth that we have condemned it in many respects. It is problematic, in many respects, a process. You put it before. It affects the lives of too many people and will affect the lives of our children, but - if you want - and it well has the state. From the outset, we have listened to each different group, on the issues it had raised. We even started a nuclear dialogue with ASEAN with regard to speeding up the process, because you will have noticed that some people are calling us for possible delays. However, the AACC remains an independent authority. And no matter how much this answer can be seen at the moment as a repetition of the former, it applies - I think it is a principle and institutionally guaranteed position - that as an independent authority, constitutionally guaranteed, it should exclude the intervention of any political leadership. I have in front of me the answer given to the service by the AACC. They were the only ones who could anyway be placed on it. No more ministries, but specifically the ADP. I think it makes it clear that he has set out the type of application and the individual procedures which he has to follow anyway. At the same time - I say to you - we have exhausted every margin of dialogue and everything that could be done, but it remains - and we believe in it - an independent institution. At the same time, the answers given are in line with what you have mentioned. Indeed, it is intended to approve certain instances of objections that an applicant has wrongly made the number. However, the cases of these thousand hundred and eighty three, of the twenty - eighty - seven candidates, who do not appear in the system to have paid, are his decision in the end what he will do. We can talk for now about injustices, which may have been done, or about some issues in the notice accompanying the issue of special treatment, which is currently running. But we have two data, which for me are very important. First of all, what I mentioned before is that we are talking about an independent authority. Secondly, the AACC has already made progress in drawing up and an announcement of tables. It has, in other words, almost created a situation, which I do not know how far back it can go. The final table has already been announced in one of these notices, as well as provisional tables - as you have seen - and in E3 as we are discussing. At the same time - I will repeat the word I saw before that you charged it as a possible failure of the system - there is a timetable which should be observed. Thousands of people are now waiting and much more expect our children, who will ultimately have teachers in their faces, the completion of this process. I think it is important, the argument to conclude, as it is also important that we also respect the independence of the IASC, which, in the end, will judge each case separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u69	Mrs Canelli has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u70	I am not going to be a civilian either with the timetable or on the basis of the independence of the AACC, because, since he has agreed to correct a mistake in clicking the number, he can correct more. If you can't ask, we're asking for it. I'm telling you it's very simple, because if the APA can correct the error in a click, it can also correct the error in other clicks. That's the first. Secondly, the non-payers have paid the triumphant for it by announcing them. Therefore, even at this point a redefinition and a reintroduction of these instruments can escape the loss of some people who would deserve it and be excluded from it. Who will propose it to the AACC without abolishing its independence? I didn't say anything to force you to outlaw. Secondly, whether to accept or not to object to a therapeutic objection is an interpretation issue. There are interpretative circulars from the laws to the taxes and no one would blame you - not you, the interested ones - with the support of yours, ours, the previous ones, the aftermath, where injustices are apparent, for legislation. There can be a legislative arrangement for the IASC without the removal of the procedure. If he wants, let him complete completely wrongly all lists, let him agree to correct just a few clicks. I will not stop claiming, on behalf of some people, the right to one hope. For example, don't account for the year that passed. After all, it was an election. Put it in a three-year period. I don't know what you're gonna do, but I can tell you a series of things. The first thing you should do is stop having postgraduate without quality control of postgraduate. By the way, you agree, too, that the Government of New Democracy is self-sufficient and that of the previous government. In recent years, there has been a appearance of qualifications. In any case, the right to work has been abolished, the work experience, the three years of work relations, these have been dissolved at policy level, and society will pay for it, because the experience of some people and specialization are crucial for sensitive sectors. But with this lust, "Get the papers and let it be the crocodiles" we've filled postgraduately. A postgraduate trade has developed - you know very well that I am right - and a trade colossal from our neighbouring countries, with a huge amount and has awarded a postgraduate degree, Mr President and honourable Members, within eight months, which entail perfect language, level of proficiency and above, languages that are not as easy as anyone would think, and at the same time, cover exactly what the competitions are asking for. These graduates cannot be invented and appear suddenly in people who have twenty, thirty or even forty years in the profession without a master’s degree! At some point, if we don't see education a little more practically and better, we'll get to a kind of merchandise seemingly understanding who's equipped and who's not. Take a man and go to a special school where parents have their child. He loses a teacher who has seventeen years of experience, deputy, who should have waited for so many years to simulate himself. Put in place a new man - no objection - who has a postgraduate who has acquired it in the last two years and has no previous service, he does not even know what his subject is, he has studied it on paper only. I'm talking about special lawsuits. That's all I need to close. You can find a solution if you want. If you do not wish, I would like to say that, as the competition was called for, under the pretext of independence of the AACC and not a substantial perception, we can leave it and continue the policy of the previous ones. This will be extremely unpleasant for people looking for fate in the sun and a job in a place where unemployment breaks and needs remain enormous. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u71	Mrs Kanelle, as far as the notice is concerned, I think you should turn left onto the benches, to report the details of the notice. I have to tell you that we did not draw up it, but on the other hand - because it was important and I have said it - we decided to continue a process which we thought was right for children and, if you like, a path so that we could move on to the logic of appointments, starting with special treatment. So, at the moment, we have the absentees, if you like, and that process, which started late in April 2019. I repeat, because as you rightly said, this is where we are dealing with people, whether it is twenty-eight thousand or a thousand hundred and eighty-three, hanging from our lips. So I'm not going to play with their feelings right now or with their expectation. When I place myself on the independence of the AACC, it is because I am fully aware of the fact that this is indeed a decision to be taken by the AACC to judge and assess all objections. I would not like to play with the expectations of people who are currently listening to us. I am sure that you will not fall into a fight, and I am sure you will continue to raise this issue, but at the same time I would say that when I say something, I say it in the name of knowledge. You know well that the independence of the AACC, as the notice has been made and as it goes on, is something that will be respected by this government. Also respected, desirable and desirable is that we be able to proceed with the process, and these people who applied to the thousands, and at the moment they are anxiously awaiting the announcement of the final tables, should have in due course, without further delay, the final drawing-up of tables. However, important note, which I am sure you would also be interested in evaluating, is that, as a ministry, we would like to reduce the time of freezing the paintings, which is, from three years to two. It is an important thing, which I think will be a good news for people, who should also update their academic qualifications - those who have acquired further - or even changed family status in recent years. It is something that the alternates are waiting for, and I think it is important that we achieve the three-year freeze, that is to say, falling to two years. The Minister has already said so at previous meetings, I think it will be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u72	Mr. President, can I...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u73	No, you can't now. He is never interfering with a third Member...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u74	We had submitted similar...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u75	Do you have experience...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u76	You deprived me before I could speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u77	I was comfortable with all of you, excuse me very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u78	No, listen to me. I asked you to speak before on a very specific subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u79	You had the ability in your protology and denology. Do you want me to tell you the time you had in your prototype? But it doesn't matter now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u80	We had also tabled a question to argue on this particular issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u81	You can come back if you think you are not satisfied with the answer. The first, with number 258/26-11-2019, topical question from the F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Problems at the premises of the National Sport Centre (ESC) Larissa" are not being discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-02-S1-commons.u82	With the consent of the House, the sitting is closed at 20.00.
