ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before we move on to the debate on topical and urgent questions for today, I would like to make some announcements. First of all, I have the honour to announce to the House the topical and urgent question report on Monday, 30 September 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 35/24-9-2019 by the Deputy of State of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vassilios Vassiliou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "National Book Policy". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 21/19-9-2019 by MP Kirkras of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Financial Support for the Philharmonic Music Schools of Corfu". 3. The Question No 29/23-9-2019 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The implementation of two-year pre-school education". 4. The Question No 33/24-9-2019 by Congressman I of Athens of Day 25 Mr. Angeliki Adamopoulos to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, entitled "A school of teachers in primary education". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 25/23-9-2019, the current question by MP Kilkis of the Change Movement Mr Georgios Frangidis to the Minister of Tourism, on "Serious turbulence in Greek tourism since the bankruptcy of the travel agency "THOMAS COOK". Ladies and gentlemen, I am also making two other announcements to this House. Firstly, I have the honour to inform you that I have the honour of informing you. 15841/9115/26.9.2019 the decision of the President of Parliament was made by the committee provided for in Rule 43A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure to monitor the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights for the First Chamber of Revision of the IH's Parliament. The decision in question has been posted to 'Parliamentary Transparency' and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u2	Secondly, I inform the House that from 25 September the well-known national 'PARMENIA -19' exercise is being conducted, which ends on 4 October. The exercise participates, apart from the Armed Forces, all the country's political sector, by testing the plans for periods of tension, crisis, war and emergency in general. The Greek Parliament participates in the exercise with the "Extensive Political Planning Unit", implementing the plans concerning it. So, among other things, the terrains will be activated throughout the territory on Wednesday, October 2, as follows: Time 11.00": 'air raid' alarm signal lasting sixty seconds with a sound of intermittent tension. Time 11.05 ́: sixty-second alarm signal with constant intensity sound. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS From today's up-to-date questions, the three will not be discussed, according to the document of the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, for reasons which I shall report directly: The fourth question under number 28/23-9-2019, first question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, Christos Stakoura, on the subject: "The decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on tsipouro - tsikoudia" will not be discussed due to an exceptional and serious duty of the Minister. The eighth under number 39/24-9-2019 topical question by MP II Piraeus, the Radical Left Coalition, Tryphoon Alexiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Exemption of the training of auditors to private companies", will not be discussed due to an exceptional and serious duty of the Minister. Nor can the Deputy Minister of Finance be present, Mr. Besiropoulos, due to a planned absence abroad. And finally, the fourth question under number 37/24-9-2019, on a second question by MP B3', South Athens, the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Ioannis Mousala, to the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, George Koumoutsako, on the subject: 'Designing the Government for the Refugee - Migration', will not be discussed, due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister. The current questions addressed to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Constantine Ah will first be discussed. Karamanlis. The current questions addressed to the Minister for Health Mr Kikilia and, finally, the current questions addressed to the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitris Economou, will be discussed. So let's start with the first 31/23-9-2019 top-level question of the first cycle of MP Chania of the New Democracy, Manousos Voloudakis, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "New radar approach to the airport of Chania". Mr. Voloudakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know that the airport "Daskologyannis" is a key pillar of the local economy of Chania. From arrivals at this airport it is directly dependent on the income of the county, with positive effects not only on those involved in tourism but on society as a whole. In peak periods there is a limitation on arrivals, resulting, inter alia, from a weakness of the approach radar. At the moment, the airport has been awarded to "FRAPORT", with a concession signed by the Government of SYRIZA. They are one of the strange games that history plays and punishes the arrogant, those who would lie down on the runway to prevent the airport from being privatised. They finally signed the contract. However, more than three years after the signing of the Convention, the 'FRAPORT' has not invested in this radar. Obviously the previous government did not demand, imposed the company not invest in the new approach radar or provided the conditions it had to. We, officially, do not know what is happening. In any case, I believe that this is a crucial issue for the county and for tourism throughout Crete. I would ask you, please, to tell us here what has happened so far, why we do not have the new approach radar and what you intend to do so that, as soon as possible, possible bureaucratic difficulties and obstacles are resolved in this case so that the new approach radar can be installed and that in a good season we can have more flight arrivals than today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Voloudakis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, the point you raise in your question is crucial. I agree with you both for Chania and for all Crete in general. You know that it is a very sensitive issue, which has been working for several years, as you quite rightly said, local society and the Ministry of Transport. But let's start with the basics. As you quite rightly mentioned in your text, the concessionaire, the ‘FRAPORT’, is obliged to upgrade air traffic services in accordance with the concession agreement. I note at this point, to be followed by those who are interested in the matter, that the airport of Chania - you know it very well - is part of the so-called military terminals. In other words, this airport also meets the needs of the Air Force. During the 2013-2014 concession negotiations by the New Democracy Government, it was very right in my view that the Chania airport systems, radar systems to say so very simply, had a replacement with newer technology. Furthermore, given that these systems, due to the nature of the airport, were considered military, could not be subject to European funding. So what did the New Democracy Government do then? He said it was the concessionaire's obligation to buy these systems. The concessionaire has been annoying us at the Ministry for a long time too - he is ready to buy. What we have been waiting for and showing bureaucratic irrationality for two and a half years, three and a half years - because the contract has been signed in 2017 - is to do with the fact that two agencies, the PSC and the Air Force, cannot agree with each other on the so-called requirements they have to take for this radar. Indeed, the last, if you like, committee on the matter was held on 23 August. There was still no result. I have the impression, therefore, that we have two solutions: firstly, the PSC must accept the sensitivities and the proposal of the Air Force and immediately proceed to the supply of the material, after agreeing what the specifications are, as the experts say, should have, which these systems should have. The other thing we could do - and we do not intend to do it as a solution - is to amend the concession agreement with the concessionaire, namely 'FRAPORT', which will also require its assent to 'FRAPORT'. In any case, I contacted you after your question with the Minister of National Defence, and what we can say is that we will resolve the problem, so that until the tourist season of the next period we do not have the problem we are facing today. However, I must stress that the previous government has been blocking a simple procedural problem for three years. We are therefore called upon to resolve this now, and we are committed that the two ministries will eventually find a satisfactory solution so that we can buy these necessary systems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Voloudakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister, for this answer. I keep your commitment that the issue will be resolved before the next tourist season. I guess you mean it's gonna be a given radar that's going to settle. I don't know if you mean he's going to settle down. Tell us that, even better, if we can make it before April. But I suppose you mean you'll have been ordered, so I'll say it like that. Minister, on many occasions in Greece even if one wants to invest, bureaucracy prevents it. In order to avoid the possibility of anyone hiding behind bureaucracy - anyone, I am not saying to the particular concessionaire - where there is a concessionary obligation for the State to invest, you too, as a responsible minister, must also press not only the services to do what you have to do - and we expect to see the results of what you have told us - but the pressure must also be applied to the concessionaire, so that we know that the problem will eventually be solved. It is not possible for three years to reach agreement on two state services. Obviously we fully respect the needs of national defence, and that is an absolute priority. I am sure, however, that there can be a solution to this problem with respect to the needs of the Air Force on the lines you have told us. We will be waiting, Minister, and we will be waiting for you in Chania to tell us more thoroughly. I know that the Rules of Procedure restrict me to the subject of the question, but you know, Mr President and Minister, that there is no born Cretan who will be with you at this time and will not tell you a few words about the BOAK. I know, Minister, that you didn't actually receive anything. You received what has been prepared in order to make a communication presentation a few weeks before the elections. Four, four and a half years hadn't spoken about the BOAK, and a few weeks before our elections, they presented a solution that would be ready the next day of the elections, which they knew would have left power. But, Minister, you too must speed up. Explain what review you will make, give us the data, give us the cost data, so that we too can have an opinion and not come out to say his or her "long" and "clost", with or without competence. At the moment, Minister, you must consider this issue as a top priority for your ministry as a whole. Cannot a region such as Crete in 2019-2020, in the 21st century does not have a decent highway, does not have a highway on which Cretans can move safely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Voloudakis. Of course it is not possible to ask questions on the occasion, since we have found the Minister here to start asking questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u9	You're right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u10	I understand that the BOAK is a very serious issue for Crete. I hope that the Minister will say a few words about this, and it will not be extended.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I, too, understand that the Minister cannot solve this, but I could not mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u12	All right, all right. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u13	Let's go to the first part of the question, which is about Crete and Chania airport. You have implied or, in any case, you are asking - and rightly so - whether the licensee himself has a responsibility and whether he is responsible for delaying the market for all safety systems. I would say the opposite, and I would tell you that the concessionaire, Mr Colleague, is Crete's airport to increase its air traffic, because that will increase its revenue. There are therefore a number of incidents of 'FRAPORT' in the services to tell him what radar they want, just to say it. The PSC is an agency that falls under the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport and the Air Force, as we all know, is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence. I have insinuated and felt here - and I want to be very careful because we are talking about national security issues - that the responsibility for the blockade lies primarily with the PSC. So what I can tell you is that we will solve the three-year problem, so that as soon as possible we have exceeded this bureaucratic project. But I would like to ask for your patience, because these issues are not simply complex. These issues, if you like, are touching sensitive points of national security, but we, within six months, will have resolved this issue. Then, as you quite rightly said, it's a question of commission. And there, as you quite rightly say, the 'FRAPORT' will directly purchase the necessary material needed by the airport in Chania. Now, as far as the BOAK is concerned, let me say that I am aware of the agony of all your intercepts on this issue. BOAK is a highway we've been discussing for over 20 years. Isn't that right? In other words, it is a matter that has been concerned with Greece for a long time and has been concerned with Crete as well. Two roads have been left at the moment, which have not been done, to complete the motorway puzzle in Greece, Patras - Pyrgos and BOAK. But let's see what the past government has done: basically he did a virtual competition. He created a virtual reality because he did a competition of interest. What does that mean? It means absolutely nothing, because it does not exist - and the Cretans must know - no one, but no study maturely at the moment. Without study, we cannot talk seriously about a large public project. And not only have we found no study, but also the way in which they have auctioned, it is a way that has never been done anywhere before. They break the project into three pieces, which means that the project will not be completed. We, therefore, have proposed a concrete solution. We will also make the studies progress as quickly as possible, and we have also proposed, as an opposition, a concrete way to overcome all bureaucratic processes, so that this road begins as quickly as possible, because it is a road that will primarily help the island of Crete in terms of road safety. Because as you well know every weekend and every tourist season and every month we mourn many victims on the streets, and that is unacceptable for a European Union country. I am at your disposal during another timely question, if you want, so that we have more time to unfold this BOAK bucket, because even in Crete today there are many things that have nothing to do with it, but nothing to do with reality. Once we have to avoid populism and speak the language of truth, see what has happened so far and what can be done so that the Northern Axis begins as soon as possible in Crete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Minister. Now we will discuss the second question with number 34/24-9-2019 in the first cycle of the Parliamentary Pelles of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Following the work of the Giannitsa and Halkidona bypass". I hope we don't talk about Egnatia either. Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister, as you know, the work of the Giannitsons and Halkidonas bypasses, the new engraving of the National Road of Thessaloniki - Edessa, the study of which began in the mid-1990s, was completed and is ready for construction, since the last remaining studies were completed in 2013, since 2013. The previous government of SYRIZA provided a loan line of EUR 10 million from the Public Investment Program in September 2017 in order to pay the compensation for the expropriated areas to the local owners. The Region of Central Macedonia subsequently opened the expropriation procedure, which was declared by the Regional Council Decision of 11 June 2018 and was subsequently published in the FEK on 17-9-2018. While, from 17-9-2018, the expropriation procedure has been completed, the Legal Council of the State, due to delays in the competent services of the Region of Central Macedonia, has not even made the submission of an application for the establishment of a temporary price of one unit in the competent courts, which is the first act of the expropriatory procedure in order to pay compensation to the local owners, thus delaying the entire process significantly. Let me remind you that the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, during his pre-election period, namely two days before the elections on 7 July, in his election address to the Yannitsa, he described this "first priority" work for him. And while we were expecting the opening of the 84th Report in the Prime Minister's speech to make important announcements to finance and implement the project, the Prime Minister announced that the project is unfortunately quite immature and that the studies start from the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is completely untrue, as you know, and you can see in cooperation with the services of the Ministry of Infrastructure, but also with the services of the region of Central Macedonia, so that there is this regression - and let me say - the project and go back to it thirty years, to study it again, which we do not need to do again. It is a vital project for Pella, as it will contribute to the safer and faster movement of not only passengers, but also goods. You know we have a very big production process. The road network is in a tri-stage state. Giannitsas are at the nearest distance from Thessaloniki, but unfortunately the time of approach is the largest of all the other capitals in the surrounding counties. In any case, Minister, what I would like to ask you today is whether you intend to instruct the relevant departments in the region and, in general, the relevant departments to proceed with the completion of the expropriation procedures in order to pay compensation to the local owners. And secondly, if you will ensure that you finance this project and make its bid, because otherwise you condemn the Pellas Prefecture in underdevelopment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u17	Well, let's get things started, Mrs. Jackrey. I would like to begin and make a necessary clarification, which I think will help us all understand the issue. The fact that there is a project study, that there are environmental impact studies does not mean that these projects are mature, so that they can obtain funding. Therefore, for the European Union, another thing is to have studies and another thing is to ensure funding. In that sense, therefore, what the Prime Minister told the IGC and Ms. Jackie in her question is absolutely right. So let's see the matter of Yannits and Chalcedon's bypasses. We have, as you quite rightly say, two studies: one for the bypass of Halkidona 5.3 km and one for the bypass of Giannitsas eight kilometres. But where's the problem? The problem is that for years we have been mocking the world, because these studies are studies outside of every reality, they are studies that are outdated, and I will explain why. With these studies, Mrs Jackson, whoever was a government, whoever was a minister, I could not - and I guarantee you that - find funding for the project. And the reason is a very simple one: these studies are not accompanied by any cost-benefit study and no traffic study. So what should once be understood, especially in this Chamber, because it also concerns all projects, is that the European Commission no longer financed projects for which no cost analysis has been carried out - benefits and traffic study of destinations has been carried out. And I'll say it more simply so we can all understand it. The way these two nodes have been studied can hardly be based on some traffic model. I will give you an example of how problematic your studies are. One starts by road from Thessaloniki, in the bypass of Halkidona, leading to a 20-m wide road. After the section of Halkidona - Paralimia, the existing road becomes eleven meters. In the giannitson bypass, the road regains twenty-one meters and then in the Yannitsa-Montenegro section, the road regains 11 meters. I think that, with this example, we are all aware of what a study we are discussing. The 2011 study, therefore, is a study that we need to look at very carefully and I think it is understood that this study of funding from the European Funds is not going to take. What do we do? Firstly, we need to update the studies. Secondly, we need to degrade the characteristics of the studies, which will lead to less manufacturing costs, because the 220 million that are now budgeted is something that is forbidden to find financial resources. Thirdly, we must look at this - and here we will look into it, which has not done any government in the past - whether we can integrate this project or part of the project into the Public Investment Programme. I'll come back to my dentistry because I don't want to have any more time. As far as the issue of expropriations is concerned, this is a matter for the Region of Central Macedonia, not a matter for the Ministry, because this work is a regional one. Therefore, putting the blame on the region of Central Macedonia I do not think it helps anyone. To see what the previous government has done for four and a half years, or if you want all the previous governments to do this. Because coming now and moving the finger to the government because we put the issue on its real basis is at least - and I will say it with all due respect to your face, you are an old parliamentary - political courage. Because these issues are not solved from one day to the next, when I explained to you that these studies are studies completely outdated and in these studies the project will not find funding from the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u18	Mrs Theodora Jackri has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u19	Minister, I honestly fall from the clouds with what you're saying. This bad statement was made by the Prime Minister, and in any case I don't know what his real position is. Because we see bilingualism between two periods, election and post-election. Two days before the election, the project was a priority for him. Then he didn't ask the services? And one week later, the work is immature. In any case, when this statement was made, there was a bar of statements by all three local MPs, Mr Minister, and by the District Minister of Central Macedonia Mr. Djijkosta. Mr. Djijkostas attended Pella where he actually gave a press conference and said that the Prime Minister's statement was unsuccessful, he did not know well, he did not agree. He threw it into a consultant unrelated and said that these projects from the Yanks and Chalcedon bypass have been maturely studying since 2013. You know, Minister, these studies were received in 2013 by the services of your Ministry. He studied this, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u20	In 2011.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u21	He studied this, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. So get in touch with your ministry first. And what you are telling me about so-called traffic studies - as you have told me here - the connection, especially for the study of the Yannits and, in any case, what you said here that they do not exist is at least utopian. Because, you know, the Yanks node, Mr. Minister, has been studied to be a decongestion node, so it has been studied and it has a double direction, because it is precisely because everyone will fall there in traffic. It's a circular decongested node. So what you say does not really exist. I call on you, Minister, first of all, to consult the Regional Director of Central Macedonia and your Members in the county, because you continue bilingualism with regard to these projects and whether or not they are of studyable maturity. The studies have been received, they have been paid. From your ministry they were studied by the services of your department. What you say, the first of you and the Prime Minister confess here. I think - and I am linking it to the second part of your answer to the budget of 220 million, which you are saying is too large - that, because you cannot afford funding for any project, you find the pretext of so-called study immaturity, which does not exist. And I'm telling you again: Get in touch with your competent services, with the MPs and the district minister. Because you come here and tell us that this work is essentially a reference to the bells, and we are the ones that put us in underdevelopment. Because you spoke of parliamentary courage, I would remind you of what you told us before, that without studies we cannot discuss any major work seriously. That's right! I would remind you that the studies of these sections were completed in 2013. Would you like me to remind you, Minister, who was the government in 2013? It was the Samara government. Why didn't you just move on, as you say? You didn't give the money for the expropriations. Of course, the issue of expropriations, the declaration of expropriations, is related to the services of the region of Central Macedonia. Mr. Djijkostas I think you know which party he belongs to. Consent at last and give adequate answers! Stop mocking Pella's citizens!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u22	Mrs. Jackie, you need to finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u23	I think you should first come to an agreement and answer us in order, Minister. Forget the pretexts and pretext reports of alleged study immaturity. There is no such thing as that, I'm telling you again. And yes, please consult the district manager so that you can even proceed with the procedure for payment of compensation to the expropriated areas. All the other things about me are 'other words to be loved'. You found a pretext to fully refer the work to the bells. Nothing less and nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u25	We are swinging the finger of a Member who is in the Greek Parliament for sixteen years, has changed two parties and was a regional advisor for four years. And you come - the political courage is comic - and you swing the finger on the government, and you lie! The study, Mrs. Jackris, has been completed in 2011, not in 2013. Before you come here and do the smart thing, you know the evidence. One of the prisoners. Secondly, because, obviously, my Greeks are not well and you don't understand me. I did not tell you that studies are not mature and I did not tell you that this work is not the direct priorities of the government. But we need to understand once - and you must understand this above all, because you have a very large parliamentary experience - that I have a mature study does not mean that I guarantee funding. Because from 2011 to 2017, four years what did the PASOK government do - where were you at PASOK, if I remember correctly - Mrs Jackres? From 2015 to 2019 what did you do? Did you make $10 million for the expropriations and celebrate? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u26	In 2013, I was an independent MP!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u27	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u28	Please, just calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u29	Shame on you, because you, as a Member of Parliament, should apologise for what you have been mocking for so many years. And you come and move your finger into a government that is two months old and is trying with a "magic stick" to solve your own inadequacies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u30	In 2013, it was completed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u31	To solve your own inadequate solutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u32	Please, let's finish now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u33	I still have a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u34	In 2013, it was completed in the government of Samara!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u35	Mrs. Jackie, no one wins anything like that. Please, Minister, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u36	So, in order to drop some tons, we should at some point consult in this Chamber on how we can obtain funding for a project. The fact that we are announcing it does not mean that this project will find funding. The fact that we have a study - and ask, if you are not an engineer, any engineer you want - does not mean that it can secure funding. And explain why. Because, obviously, you do not know the procedures in the European Union, although you are a Member of the European Parliament for sixteen years. In order to finance this study, Mrs Jackson, it should be granted the approval of 'JASPERS'. Do you know what "JASPERS" is? He's Europe's technical consultant. And JASPERS has said to all fora that it cannot fund this project with this study. So you hide it from your fellow citizens! And now you're coming to tell us why we don't auction a project. Do you want us to make fun of each other like you did? Oh, no! Because if we were to auction it, we would actually auction an idea, as you did to BOAK, as you did at Patras - Tower, for coming and canceling a project ready for funding and four and a half years later, you had done nothing. So stop mocking the Greek people. We must understand that when we speak in the Greek Parliament we must have arguments. A study that exists does not mean that it ensures funding, which is why I also told you the solution. The solution, to overcome the sniper, is part of the project to join the ETUC, which your government, Mrs Jackres, did not do, nor did the previous PASOK government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u37	Samara's?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u38	In 2011 he was not Mr. Samaras. In 2011 you were in the headquarters of PASOK. Then you didn't say that. Now you're saying it. Well, mocking seems to have stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u39	Are studies mature, or are they not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u40	Your studies have said that they are mature, but the point is that these studies, although mature, cannot find funding from the European funds. This is what you hide, and this shows the size of your political affinity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u41	When you go to your office, see the video to see what you've answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u42	Please, let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u43	First you told us that they were immature, finally that they are mature.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u44	Mrs. Jackres, you don't hear what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u45	You will be judged by the citizens of Pella.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u46	I think this may be a debate that will continue. The third question for Mr Karamanlis, which is to be discussed now, is the second question under number 36/24-9-2019 of the second cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Integration of the Thessaloniki Metro instantly". Mr Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, shock and awe from the Mitsotakis declaration, in Thessaloniki on 7 September, that the metro of Thessaloniki will be used in 2023. Shock and awe for us Thessalonians who have been in existence by the governments of PASOK and New Democracy, New Democracy and PASOK from 1985 to 2015, for 30 years. In the first section, until 2005, we practically had one side - a move was made to find banks and private donors using the concession method. In 2005, we finally had the process to be a public project, and from 2005 until 2015, you only did 33% of the project. In July 2019, SYRIZA, who found the project in 33% handed over to you, Mr Karamanlis, tunnels at 100%, archaeologically at 100% except Venizelos, civil engineering projects at 95% and the entire project at 75%. In three years, the project has "trained" three times more than in the past thirty years. Minister, it's over! Don't play on the Salonika back, because this story doesn't make any sense. You talk many times about the continuity of the state. You have a clear timetable - what exists - where the main metro artery, that is, the New Switzerland Square - New Railway Station 9.6 km long, will be ready in 2020. The 12 of the thirteen stations will operate in the two tunnels at the end of 2020. And what did we hear from you and your Prime Minister? That we're going back three years. The discomfort of the professional world in the center of Thessaloniki goes back three years and the world of Thessaloniki, which does not have the luxury of six public transport, such as in Athens, will have to be content with a colostrum of OSTH and a metro that you say you will deliver in April 2023. So, against a certain timetable, structured, costly, what do you have to say? Air cut off. Axle cries of patriocalysm and patriolagen. The whole city is talking about interests, election notes and deals that you are now redeeming, after-elections. Because otherwise it doesn't make any sense. You would go in 2020, you would cut the ribbon along with your Mitsotakis and you would actually have a contribution to the end of this project. Why are you taking it in 2023?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Triantafylides, continue when you have your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u49	You're welcome, Mr. President. In fact, on the subject of the Venizelos station, you said a number of misconfidences. You said there was no study for Venizelou. The answer - revelation, four hundred pages, six "sheets" designs, comes from the "UPHMERID OF THE RECOMMENDERS" and I will submit it in the Minutes. You said you hadn't done the preparatory work in Venizelos. From DENMARK five studies, five projects, five million for all preparatory projects and I will also present them in the Minutes. Previously on "RADIO THESSALONIKI" the witness, Mr. Tachiaos, the man who put President at "ATITITI METRO", said that there is a technical solution - which you said before there is no technical solution, and there are no studies that have been and have been made - but it is, he says, accurate. What are you going to do, Minister? Will you be violating the archaeological law, Law No 3028/2002, which states clearly that the secondment and relocation of the ancients will only be done if there is no technical solution? This technical solution is awarded by Europe in the face of the Polyxen Velene, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Triantafylides, you've already doubled the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u51	The University of Sorbonne has awarded Mrs Velen, why did the question'metro or ancient'? SYRIZA said "and metro and ancient". Your solution is neither subway nor ancient. I'll tell the rest of it in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u52	Minister, you have the floor, but be shorter, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u53	After this resalt, let us go back to the right word and to the rationale. So let us take things calmly one - one, because SYRIZA, pretentiously invokes too many myths. So let us unleash things by canceling one by one of the allegations made by Mr Triantafylides and I, too, call for your time to be tolerated, Mr President. Firstly, you say that the solution we are proposing will delay the completion of the metro. The exact opposite is true. The project will be completed much sooner. With SYRIZA's proposal, the project was unknown - I'm talking about the Venizelos station - when it will end. I would remind you, Mr Triantafyllidis - and I am not talking about a newspaper report now - that the former advisor to Attica METRO, the one you appointed in April said that the project would not have been completed with Venizelos either in 2024. And I can tell you, if you like, in the Minutes his statement. Also, Mr Triantafylides, I will submit to the minutes the contractor's letter, which warns that the timetable has been shaken in the air. Do you know why, Mr. Triantafylides? Because, under the responsibility of your government, there are not even one or two studies pending, there are three hundred and two studies that you have not submitted. On the contrary, what do we say? We say that the metro must be delivered complete with the Venizelos station...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u54	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u55	...and this will take place in April 2023. Secondly, you support something that is really first-rate. Listen to what SYRIZA says. To surrender the metro without the Venizelos station, so as not to delay the entire project. Mr. Triantafylides, without Venizelos Station the metro is colloidal. It is the main metro station of Thessaloniki. It is estimated that it will serve six thousand seven hundred fifty passengers at peak time and eighty-five thousand per day. Its passenger traffic cannot be transferred to the other stations. In order to make this clear, if the Thessaloniki metro is delivered without the Venizelos station, the station stations should be shut down again from six to eighteen months, i.e. mockery. Thirdly, you blame us for putting the ancients at risk. On the contrary, the solution of the secondment and the reposition protects and ensures antiquities. The CAS has agreed twice with the original design. The same solution has been followed by you at the Agia Sophia station.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u56	Don't confuse disparate things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u57	What am I saying? I'm telling the truth. In fact, the treatment of antiquities at Venizelos station will be even better, since the design we are proposing now will highlight the ancients and become perceived in the main area by 90% -95%. Fourthly, you are abdicating us that, with the solution we give, everything that has been done for so many years is lost. Really, have you been to Venizelos Station, Mr. Triantafylides? Because I went.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u58	What are you talking about? You're telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u59	Those who delay us, then, that we supposedly delay the project, are the ones who delayed it with their appeals in 2017 and threaten to do the same now. Nothing has been done at Venizelos station in connection with the construction of the station. You've been funny. You're making fun of the world. It's only the roof. Fifth, you're accusing us of increasing the cost of the project. Not only does it grow, but rather it is reduced. A moderate estimate is that in the way you proposed the Venizelos station, that is, with the in situ procedure of antiquities, it would cost at least 30 million more expensive. The worst: you tell us that there is a serious risk to the project. You delayed the project, because when the project fails to finish it by 2025, we risk returning all the European assistance of three programming periods. And to see the absurdity of what SYRIZA says, do you know how much the project cost? The cost of archaeological excavations to date in Thessaloniki? It has cost 135m euros. The Acropolis Museum cost less. The conclusions of yours. The funny thing, then, is that the studies that have been presented - these stumbling and incomplete studies - do not even bear the seal of the "ATTYMERO". In March 2019, the Commission decided to award the studies. From that alone one draws one’s conclusions that what you say has nothing to do with reality. Now, with regard to the charges you are launching and dealing with increased costs, your government gave the contractor 200 million after the arbitration, Mr Triantafylides. The metro has currently cost more than 1 billion and is still not finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u60	How much did he claim?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u61	It doesn't matter, don't say that. Saying that the metro would be ready in 2020 is one of the biggest political lies that have been heard. So your problem is that you need to conflict with reality. We, Mr Triantafylides, will not inaugurate mustards, we are not political fraudsters. We'll start a subway. What you did would be envyed by the propagandas of the most totalitarian regimes, and that proves what your political culture is and who actually mocks the citizens of Thessaloniki for the last five years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Triantafylides has the floor for two minutes with little tolerance. You saw that I left both ample time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u63	You said heavy words and I hope the story that will judge you, as the great Constantine Karamanlis judged as great, does not end up with you and her assessment that you are Constantine Karamanlis the little one. You said about the study. Is there a study of the secondment and relocation of antiquities? Your director, your president, Mr. Sakkas, said publicly yesterday that there is no. If there is, testify to the House now. How's the secondment going to be? How long? How much will it cost? What will you do, Mr Karamanlis, if under the ancient Venizelos and Ennatias find other ancient ones? What if it's discovered and mercury underneath them. What are you gonna do next? You said nothing has happened. Here the "DENMARK" essentially disproves you: First, in June 2019, the work of protecting antiquities was completed. Secondly, for the studies of temporary skates, micropassels. Thirdly, the final level one studies. Fourthly, studies to circumvent networks and preliminary work are being carried out. All of this with the relevant ADIs. Do you know what ADD means? Adaptation of the roof plate study of the station under redesign. And as you admitted, why you visited with the subway project director, the roof plate of the station has been made and adapted to the redesign of the station. That's what I testified in the Minutes, and that's the lie, the huge lie you're saying. Five studies, five constructions, declared in "DENMARK" completed. So what are you gonna do? Will you fly, will you "walk" the projects that cost 5 million euros? Question two and a crucial one. It says - I am not talking about what they are tabling in the newspapers and so on. - on February 16, 2019 in the "Thessaloniki Regional Forum" that the CEO Alexander Exarch of the "AKTOR" that the project will end in 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u64	I didn't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u65	I will present Mr. Exarch's statement. Alexandros Exarch, "AKORR". What about Mr. Exarch SYRIZA and him? "The Pensioners' Newspaper" and him? Mr. Exarch? Thirdly, I do not believe that you have envied glory of comparison with Stephano Mano, made statements in the newspaper 'TAH' on 16 September. May I read to you what Stefanos Manos said, thirty years of Minister of the Environment of your resignation? SYRIZA and Manos? Stefanos Manos says in the newspaper "TASE": There is a danger that Mr Mitsotakis will proceed with his vexed decision to remove the ancient Venizelos station, just to prove its determination. It's gonna be a big mistake, Manos says, irreparable. The aim of the Government must be to operate the metro as quickly as possible. It is absolutely possible until the end of 2020 with the beginning of 2021, provided that the twin problem of the leadership of an employer and contractor is solved. It is possible, provided that it is accepted that the first phase will work without Venizelos station. Then by metro in operation the Venizelos station will be built with night shifts, without moving the ancients. So the Thessalonians have our own suggestion that we make a specific, costly proposal. The metro in 2020 would be delivered with the twelve of the thirteen stations, running, the city would not be congested downtown. And for OSTH, you said we'd tell you within two months. And for the subway you said in two months we'll tell you. You came just like Columbus, who, when he started, didn't know where he was going and when he arrived, didn't know where he was. You didn't have a proposal for either OSTH, which we started redesigning for both the recruitment of the new drivers and the three hundred new buses...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u66	The buses...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u67	You 'freezed' them and now take the metro in 2023 with the claim. You're not saying the company claimed 1,1 billion. And it finally took 180 million. The city of Thessaloniki asks: Why do you stop the subway? Why do you play with the daily life of the Thessalonians? Why PASOK and New Democracy or New Democracy and PASOK troubled the city and you are now coming again and while you could in six months cut off the ribbon, you leave the project. Why, who and on what grounds? Why? That is why he is looking for the city to find which deals, which election notes, too, Mr Karamanlis, call on them - to do so on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u68	Thank you. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u69	When we speak in the Greek Parliament, it will be a good thing to have a start, a medium and an end, to have a real dialogue. So this paraxism, which we see from Mr Triantafylides, seems to me to serve only his own voters. Do you want to have a show, Mr. Triantafylides? I will not follow you, but I will speak to you with evidence and show you the size of your political fraud.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u70	Answer Stephano Mano, not me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u71	You referred to statements by Mr. Exarch. But did you not refer to the letter made by Mr. Exarch on 10 June 2019, that is, after the statement, which he says? It says in a few words and abducts the "Attica Metro" that no study has been prepared and approved and that the metro delays have to do with the responsibility of your own government. Therefore, these "flares" you fly, that the metro would be ready in 2020...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u72	Exarch says it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u73	The Exarch came back later - I'm explaining to you to speak Greek - and he said exactly the opposite with evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u74	What about Manos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u75	Look...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u76	Stephanos Manos says he'll...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u77	Don't interrupt me, Mr. Triantafylides. That is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u78	You're answering Mano.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u79	Well, let's organize the conversation better. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u80	You don't know what you're saying. Expose with what you're saying. Be careful, there's practically-- we're going to testify everything -- because your CEO said it's going to be Venizelos station ready in '24. So there is one issue here. How did the metro of Athens become? How did the station in Monastiraki become the station in Syntagma, how did the station become in Agia Sophia? It has been done with the system that we are proposing and with the solution we are proposing, which I repeat, are technically more good, it has been approved by the CSCE and it will cost less money. So what do we say? We say that the goal must be the metro of Thessaloniki to operate uniformly. Because if it does not work uniformly, it will cause many problems. And to understand how fair I am, I have repeatedly said that if we remove all this politicisation of Venizelos station - where it has taken a novel dimension to Thessaloniki - I admit that the SYRIZA government has indeed moved the rest of the metro at regular intervals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u81	Be well! That's nice of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u82	But do you know why this happened, Mr. Comrade? Can I tell you why? Because some had appealed to S.H.E. In 2013, the project was stuck not with the fault of the government at the time. It's unlocked.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u83	Do you have a secondment study?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u84	But study isn't about you for four years, about what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u85	Well, now, we're never gonna finish it. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u86	You use arguments that are against you. I protect you, because you don't know what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u87	Do you have a study of the secondment and resettlement?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u88	Well, to finish and tell the truth...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u89	Minister, excuse me. Mr Triantafylides, dialogue is to speak one another and then speak one another again. Speaking together is not a dialogue. Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u90	We, therefore, do not divide, we do not eat, we do not say great words, we do not create virtual reality, we do not inaugurate mustards, we do not make political deceit. Okay? Here is the difference between small and large, dear colleague. We're not lying. That's the difference. We set timetables, targets, which we will achieve.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u91	Do you have a study?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u92	For you have been back at Venizelos for four and a half years now, having just made the roof, which is a joke and which did not cost 50 million, as you say. It's funny what you're saying. Don't say it out of the way, because he'll hear us people that he understands.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u93	Five studies...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u94	So, to put things in a row, you stuck the Venizelos station's work for political reasons. And what have you done for four years? Zero! Don't you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u95	The University of Sorbonne...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u96	What University of Sorbonne?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u97	Please, Minister, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u98	You didn't do any work at Venizelos Station.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u99	You're ungodly and dangerous!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Triantafylide, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u101	You're a liar and you're dangerous with what you're saying. Well, let me close...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u102	Excuse me. Hazardous is evolving. Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u103	You inaugurate mushrooms. You have been judged by the people of Thessaloniki for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u104	You are seriously harming Thessaloniki!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Triantafylides, please. I imagine we all understand this very simple thing: usually opposition MPs ask questions and the government ministers answer. It is unlikely that the Minister will return and say 'Maybe the other is right'. We must calm down, in other words, that's what I want to tell you. Thank you, Mr Karamanlis. We are now moving on to the questions addressed to Mr Kikilia. We begin with the fifth under the number 30/23-9-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Problems from the subscribing of the Paedophiliatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion Crete (PAGNI)". The current question will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr. Kikilias. Please, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Paedophiliac Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion has been facing serious problems since the beginning of its operation, mainly because of the lack of personnel of all categories. Yesterday, fixed-term contracts expired for four workers. In November and December, two other conventions expire. Those workers who have the expertise and experience in a relevant subject and are necessary in such a sensitive area, the one in paedophilia, you are prosecuting them. Moreover, they are faced with unemployment and insecurity. The Ministry of Health in SYRIZA, in the past four years - the same practice you have been following today - and the 7th Ministry of Health, obviously, have serious responsibilities for how to establish through the NRP, how to manage, such as blocks and fixed-term contracts, which lead to the under-representation of the clinic. Every time, workers expect to be fired to then declare as Pontius Pilate the government for this development or to make battalions. Also, serious responsibilities are the administration of the hospital, which has given the workers hope that they will not lose their jobs and will not cause any problems in the functioning of the clinic. All this is happening, while even today the existing nursing staff as a whole - eleven nurses, of whom six are contracted - cannot cover the shifts, thus covering several of them this week through the account of private hospitals. The clinic works with just one psychologist, without an administrative secretary, just like the Psychiatric Clinic. Paediatric psychiatrists are only five of them one being the head of the clinic, the two being permanent and the two being contracted. As in other cases, the problems of this clinic are the result - I would say - of the criminal policy facing health as a commodity, which privatises hospitals more and more and is not interested in health or care for children and adolescents. So we ask you, Minister: what measures does the government intend to take to find a solution to the contracts of employment of the contractors immediately so that no worker will lose his job and that the official and full-time staff of all specialists, sufficient number and ability to cope with the increasing pedophiliatric needs, are served? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr President, thank you for the question you have asked me. I feel that - at least as far as I am concerned - there may be another way of dealing with colleagues and ministers from my fellow Members. Mr President, I endorse what you have said. I am not in any mood to speak to any of my colleagues. We can come and get in touch. Colleagues can ask questions and I can give my answers. Obviously, some answers satisfy, some other answers are unsatisfactory. It is in the context of democratic dialogue and an inalienable right for everyone to disagree. Personally, personal traits are far from me. Mr Colleague, this is the truth, as you described it, not just for the University General Hospital of Heraklion. With an effort we have made these two months to map the problems of the spiritual potential of the ERC hospitals throughout the country, we have seen that this is more or less the picture. And I say this because we were called upon as a political leadership by the Ministry of Health to deal with intrinsic weaknesses and shortcomings in the summer due to a very bad planning. For example, the elementary, getting a doctor's permission at summer was not given in the summer, which was passed. So they were forced, because there was no programming, as they had to have several DPRKs, and central targeting and organization by the Ministry of Health, to call themselves before they even come out of the GSPs of the Secretary-General and the associates, in islands and in remote areas to regulate inherent abnormalities and weaknesses and not to stay clinically entire islands and islands whole and hospitals without specific specialties. Now, with regard to this hospital and this clinic, the Paedophiliac Clinic, which is a ten-bed capacity, I want to say what has been predicted and what is being done. On the basis of the existing institutional framework - and this is what we can move around with anyone else at the moment - there is approval by the Ministry for the immediate recruitment of six nurses, who are technological education, namely, the TEI, under a private-law contract, as you described it, and the duration of two years. I have no objections. That's the reality. There is also approval for the staffing of the Paedopsychiatric Clinic with a specialist for Paedopsychiatrics and this by issuing service receipts. It is the way we tried to regulate many of the gaps that we found in the summer. I would also like to say to you, on the point of psychologists, that a permanent issue that I would like to discuss with all the parties in order to be able to deal with differently and I will, of course, invite all former ministers first of all, is the issue of the proclamation of permanent posts through ASP, especially for the barren lines and remote areas, in which the process takes a very long time and is not succeeding, because when the time comes for the doctor concerned to have his papers appointed, he himself refuses to appoint. So, it's been a long time gone and we're re-engaged from scratch. So I would say that this could be a common place of understanding, to find the possibility that the Constitution, of course, does not allow for similar positions, to support these positions which the AACC has promoted in barren lines, in remote areas, perhaps with some bonuses, perhaps with some wage difference, so that we do not expect an AACC to benefit in one or a half year, and ultimately the person concerned, because he does not come out economically, does not accept the position. So for the two psychologist positions, one post, which has been successful and completed by the AACC, the person concerned has finally failed to accept it, and so we have asked the AACC to reopen it, and the second post has been covered by staff who, however, have been seconded to the task force for a second time. This is the situation in what's got to do with the specific clinic at the General University Hospital of Heraklion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u110	Minister, on the substance of what you said, not only do you not change this relentless picture of the Paedophiliac Clinic and the whole of the island, but on the contrary it will deteriorate even further. Why am I telling you this? Paedophilia is the only public clinic in southern Greece and one of the few university psychiatric clinics in the country. It serves incidents from all the prefectures of Crete, Cyclades, Dodecanese, where there is no trace of pediatric services. It is addressed to a particularly sensitive group of patients, children, adolescents and their families. The pediatric search incidents have increased sharply in recent years and I can also provide you with very specific evidence how all these years there has been an increase in the incidents and why. Staff may not be based on works lease contracts, known blocks, on service employment through the account of private afternoon doctors, or on the subsidiary, or on this rotation of workers. I would say that you do not even do the elementary thing that the law allows you to do, i.e. to renew contracts for an additional year, as provided by the Law on University Hospitals. We, of course, take the view that they should be permanent staff, but you do not even do what the institutional framework says, which you referred to a moment ago. The real needs today require a modern Pedophilia Clinic capable of responding to specific incidents and to the safe hospitalisation of children and adolescents in Crete, the Dodecanese, the Cyclades and the Cyclades and cannot be met with opportune fragmentational solutions, with a specified expiry date, as the Government, as well as the 7th RC. The 7th RCF - I do not know if you know this - in a recent communication, under the pressure of workers and their unions, he referred to six recruitments of nurses from the list of auxiliary staff. You didn't even mention that. In any case, that is not what this is about, because anyway we disagree. But what you say, or what the 7th RCF says, obviously on a course to sum up the situation, is the problem solved? I'd say no. Already in August and September with a New Democracy Government nine nurses have been fired. Assuming that what the 7th RCD says or possibly in a consultation of yours with the 7th RCD is true, the problem is still not solved. I mean, you fired nine, you get six with a fixed-time job or a block. In other words, in practice, what you and the 7th RCF are saying is that, in other words, the principle of the new administration, along with the upgrading of services to citizens, is the protection of workers' rights and that it does not consider them to be consumable. That is what the communication of the 7th HR, your commander, appointed a short time ago. Consumables are when a considerable workforce is devalued, which exploited its expertise and experience, in order to organize the clinic from scratch and deal with a lot of incidents like what we have said. The clinic, Mr. Minister, needs permanent staff! - all categories, in order to be able to stand - it is not a shop, it is a Paedophiliac Clinic - to function fully and to respond for free to the special circumstances, provided, of course, that patients are safe hospitalized. So you and the 7th Ministry of Health and the management of the University Hospital must respond directly to the real needs and requirements of this clinic. I repeat, therefore, that it must be done on a permanent and full-time basis by staff of all specialties, sufficient in number and capable of responding to ever-increasing pedophiliatric needs, by giving an immediate solution to the employment contracts of the four plus two workers so that no one will lose their job and, of course, also improve working conditions. You think they're better? I don't know if you've been to the Psychiatric Clinic at the University Hospital. It's a terrible situation! It's a tragedy, what's happening at the Psychiatric Clinic! Improve working conditions. Allow workers to leave closed space so that there is always the necessary number of staff on shifts and, of course, to make it easier for them to live with them. Create a short-term hospitality for teenagers. So if you do not consider them consumable and want to upgrade the services of the Paedophiliac, provide a sufficient service to the clinic with permanent staff rather than to recyclers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u111	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, this is where we agree. And I repeat that I am pleased about the question, because it is in the context of an overall plan that we are planning. Be careful, it is another fragmentary design of cover and patching and another comprehensive design for the needs that exist. I believe that, at the end of the year, this effort will be successful. I agree with you that this is the solution. The solution is to proclaim permanent positions and fill these positions. And we move that way. From that point on, you know that the termination of a contract is not dismissal. It's the end of a contract. So, personally, I don't feel like we've fired someone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u113	He's a human being. It's not a contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u114	You're right. I agree. However, I repeat, Mr Colleague, that it is no longer a contract signed by the Contracting Party with the legal person. So, what I would like to say to you is that for all of what you said in your reposition, which I am very interested in this hospital and the Psychiatric Clinic - and in general - the burden is falling - and I have already requested it - both to the Chiefs and to the Governors. And what have I asked for? We should be able to find a way to improve even building our hospitals as far as we can, with the health finances that exist after 10 years of restrictive budgetary policies. Everything has to be taken into account. And our commanders in the next few days will also be judged by this - of course! - and working conditions and building and everything. I have explained and said that for us first priority is man, patients and vulnerable groups, and, of course, the HSH's inspiring potential, which has, heroicly, been doing his job for the last ten years. I have no reason to disagree with what you say: recruitment of permanent staff and of those who run - it starts with the Minister and goes down - an effort to support all structures in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Minister. The third question under number 23/23-9-2019 will now be discussed in the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Without chemotherapy the patients remained at the "Athens Hospital". Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, a few days ago we received knowledge that there were complaints of cancer in the Medical Association of Athens, as well as in terms of the President of Attica Hospital, that completely sudden and unexpectedly suspended the chemo therapy program of that hospital. More specifically, patients were notified by phone - on the basis of complaints - that their chemo was deferred, without being told why and for an indefinite period. We know very well - and I am sure you know personally - that the systemicity of this treatment is very important and, therefore, even a short-day delay can have very serious consequences and lead to ineffective chemotherapy. You also understand the psychology of these patients, the impasse and the desperation in which they came because of this particular situation. In response to the complaint, Minister, the hospital administration admits that due to the exhaustion of the relevant budget appropriations, there has indeed been a problem with the necessary medicines. The administration is talking, in particular, about delays in the completion of the required procedural authorisations, and this, as you can see, is essentially responsible for the services involved in the Ministry of Health. Mr Minister, unfortunately - and I am very sorry to say this - it is now common to repeat - and I am not only talking about your term of office at the Ministry, but also about the previous term of office of the previous government - the same situation as hospitals, as it ends the financial reserve of hospitals, causing enormous inconvenience to patients who resort to the public health system. Many of our fellow citizens are forced - those who have the financial potential - precisely because of this unreliability which exists in many public hospitals to go to private hospitals to make their chemos, in which there are no problems, at least so far. And what should also be happening in public hospitals. This is how you understand that patients and a two-speed health system are actually being created with obvious victims of financially weaker victims. Especially in the health field, Mr Minister, and you personally, but also the Prime Minister, were committed not to permit any mistakes at all. However, there are still shortcomings in drugs, permanent staff, hospital material. The same scene is repeated not only at the "Attica Hospital", but also in other hospitals throughout the territory, such as the University Hospital of Larissa and the General Hospital of Rhodes. You understand that it is incomprehensible to deal with such situations not only in five, but in five and in fact at the beginning of each summer's period, hospital administrations request an emergency grant, hoping that their drug poverty will not be revealed in the autumn. You understand, Minister, and I am closing down with this, that in no case is there a fire-fighting measure to tackle the downgraded image of public hospitals and the specific problem. We therefore expect an integrated health programme which concerns all of us not to allow social discrimination in the most sensitive area of social policy in the field of health and, above all, does not give rise to uncertainties for patients, much more so when it comes to cancer patients. In this context, I would point out that the 2020 budget is nearing the moment and we still have not heard any very specific commitment to funding the vulnerable health area, namely, for funding that will solve the specific problem facing the "Athens Hospital", but also many other hospitals throughout the territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u117	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the question. I'm glad to be able, at least for a very large hospital such as "Attica", and I and the administration and the service actors have been ahead of you. The reality is that the "Atomic Hospital" did not interrupt the administration of chemotherapy to tumour patients. Indeed, they admit, they reduced some treatments and specific preparations on Thursday 19 and Friday 20 September 2019. And because I want to be specific, the treatments that took place on Thursday 19-9-2019 amounted to thirty-two and four were postponed and on Friday they were thirty-five and one was postponed. On the same day that was diagnosed, the Ministry of Health made a total funding of 54m euros in the hospitals of the two Ministry of Health and the administration of the hospital indeed took into account, with the relevant services of the Ministry of Health, and completed these procedures, and since Monday 23m-9-2019, i.e. on the first working day, the "Atomic Hospital" is fully prepared and there is treatment for all oncological patients. However, on the occasion of your question, you are giving me the opportunity to explain how a national health system should operate. Certainly not the way in which, unfortunately, it has been operating in recent years. What do I mean by that? What was traditionally seen, as we all remember - do the oldest colleagues know - at the Ministry of Health, in terms of the national health system and hospitals? The whole year came out with a particular budget and some time in November, that is, a month before the last month, some minor failures appeared. So go, the Minister of Health and ask the Minister of Finance from the Ministry of Finance for a little help so that the year can be completed. Is this happening this year? Oh, no. What's going on? Something much worse is happening. With the planning of the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Health, hospitals have been calling for hikes and therefore, more clawback and, therefore, more costs, since August, since September. This is the first time after many years that this is happening. I said it publicly, and Mr. Xanthos, the former Minister, smashed me. But it is a reality - you know, the facts and figures cannot be destroyed - which comes from the administrations he appointed. In August there were many topics in hospitals that had reached the plaque in their costs for PHY and expensive medicines and September itself. And the situation will continue until the end. That is why I also bring a bill which I have already tabled in the consultation with structural measures. The SYRIZA government has never taken structural measures, but they were all waiting until the end of the year to come horizontally, with clawback, and cut expenditure over the threshold. Well, that expenditure has reached unthinkable heights. It has reached more than 700m euros for hospitals, and if the EOPY wall is 2 billion euros, it has reached 3.4m euros. With their policies, therefore, they left the cost of the medicine uncontrolled. How? Health resources must go to vulnerable groups, sick people, staff recruitment where they need and not to the 'black hole' of health. And I ask: in the last three, four years, what have been the structural measures taken with regard to the negotiating committee, with HDA, on the quantities of drugs in Greek hospitals and pharmacies? What measures have they taken to rationalise expenditure and the quantity at least on the European Union average? I will provide you with the information from the EEA and the hospitals, to see how far we are on drugs from the European Union average. What, are the Greeks friendly against all the other Europeans? Apparently not. They have taken no measures to rationalise expenditure, both quantitatively and in terms of prices. And hospitals, one behind the other, since no measures have been taken apparently, are constantly asking for and are at a dead end. This situation has been called upon to deal with and we will deal with it. I said very well from the Step of the House in the programming statements and again a few days ago, that there is no way we can leave our hospitals like this. At a high cost, though, but there's no way we can leave it like this. We will bring these corrective measures that we all understand must exist in order to have a screening and to know where the last euro of Greek taxpayers is going. This money doesn't come in a magical way, Comrade, from over. It is the money of Greek taxpayers and I respect it until the last euro. So there must be accountability for where this money is spent, where they go. So we need an organised, rationalized and proper health policy to deal with our hospitals. I will not go further to say what the information I received from the hospital managers of Mr. Polakis and Mr. Xanthos was about how the hospitals operated this year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u119	Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u120	Minister, I have here a press release from the governor's office, which clearly states that the administration of Attica is aware that due to the exhaustion of the relevant budget appropriations there has been a problem in supplying the hospital with the necessary medicines. So there was an issue here. Yes, we are absolutely positive about the extraordinary solution you have given, about the postponement of chemo therapy. But to be honest, Minister, the truth is that all this has been done - at least in time - shortly after the saliva created in the media and, of course, after the initiative of the Change Movement to demonstrate the shortcomings at the "Athens Hospital". As a result, as you have announced, the ceiling on appropriations for medicinal products in hospitals' budgets by 54 million euros, which, in your assessment, as you said now, will meet the needs of the supply of oncological medicinal products. You were right to do so. You have also demonstrated in your speech the responsibilities of the previous government. We first said that, unfortunately, over the last four and a half years there has been a dissolution of public health, with a huge responsibility for SYRIZA. But you, Minister, have been elected - and that was the people's mandate - to solve these problems and solve them immediately. So we expect to see immediately what you are going to do. I understand - and first of all we say this in the Change Movement - that health issues are not offered for a sterile opposition, and in no case is that the content of this question. However, the Ministry must provide for a comprehensive regulation and treatment of this issue. And in that direction, Minister, we will be constantly pressing. The big issue - I said it in my protology, and I will insist on that, Minister - is that we are waiting for a comprehensive plan from you - we still have not seen it - so that patients who have the only way and means to deal with their illness, the public health system, the public hospitals. And that is why we have not seen an integrated package in this direction so far. Has it been calculated - in addition to the exceptional appropriations, which you have given at this stage - an overall way of dealing with so that we do not get to these situations, particularly in view of the 2020 budget? You mentioned that we need to be very careful about the Greek taxpayer's money. First of all, we, our government, PASOK, made the largest areas in 2010 in public health with the dual-graphic systems of hospitals, by e-prescription, with measures that changed the health sector. We were strict with SYRIZA when he made the patients "black", applying memorial veto and forcing them to stand in line with the tails of the shame of the pharmacy of the EOPY to get the necessary treatments. However, we will also be strict with the New Democracy and with your Government whenever matters arise, which will concern the Greek citizen and especially the acquired rights, for timely, systematic and decent treatment and care for all patients and especially cancer patients. The project of your program statements was the awareness of the Ministry especially on cancer patients issues and the service of the citizen from the public health system and the central axis of the announcements of the New Democracy was the return of our society to normality. So we expect, Minister, with an agony to see the actual return to the normality of the patient's chemo treatment sessions at the Oncology Unit at the "Attica Hospital", as well as all oncological units in the territory that have corresponding problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u121	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. I couldn't agree more with you, my colleague. First of all, I am pleased about the aversion to your word that has to do with the oncological patients and the tails of shame in the pharmacy of the EEA. Indeed, that was the picture, sad picture of human dignity. Within two months, in what has to do with hospital medicine, P.S.A., our government, as promised by the election, carried it out post-elections. I therefore endorse your abhorrence in my reply. Already the ecological patients don't go to the tails of the EPOY pharmacies to take their medications and then to the special clinics in order to have their treatment. This is done automatically through an electronic system. We live in the 21st century. So I think that the obvious thing, which, however, has been very difficult to implement over the years, has been done in two months. And we move on to the second part of the issue with the vulnerable groups, with patients with multiple sclerosis, with the oncological patients and the distribution of the tumor medications to neighborhood pharmacies. You are quite right to say and I agree that fragmentary solutions are not available. So, what's the design of the Ministry of Health? What is he doing, what is he going to do and what is he going to do in the short, medium and long term? In the short term: I am very honest. With health finances, which we have received and the situation in the ERC hospitals is being given a great deal of battle to get the year out. I promised that no ERC hospital will be left so that the entrepreneurial potential, doctors, nurses, administrative staff and other staff will be supported and that this year will come out, with all the problems that are presented. Besides, in common sight and publicity, I presented the indicators for the hospitals of the ESS after the written suggestions - answers to the questions which I have sent to all the governors of the country and to all of the State's Ministers, who I have not appointed, Mr Xanthos has appointed. They gave us the answers, so we know what's going on. So the year will be saved, first. 2020: "What will you do, Minister, to get this situation together?" First, a great deal of responsibility for the governors. I say to you that in the bill which comes, I say that by appointing these procedures provided for by the law of the respective commander, it will be signed - as the law stipulates and has not been implemented so far - and qualitative and quantitative indicators of what it had to do with its responsibilities in the administration of the hospital. He has responsibility for a commander and a lieutenant over the hospital. Must be the lieutenant on the papers and on the TLPs. The commander must be in direct cooperation with the Ministry and with the Ministry, control expenditure, be there, interfere with clinical and solve problems, help. Of course, how will this be done without medical protocols? Sixty are stuck and waiting. But of course, we're talking about expensive medicine, so they're given to hospitals, with a doctor's signature, not medical councils, no medical protocols. So they obviously mean expensive drugs, lightly heart, whoever wants it where he wants it. What's the documentation? Should there not be a protocol that says this medicine be given first, second, third, and finally another last generation fourth if treatment is not successful? Where is the quantification, where is electronic accountability, where are the material supplies, where are the hospital contests? Mr. Xanthos did so, and I had to do it a month ago, retrospectively, to go back to justify the costs of the last three months. This has been a common practice in recent years. But that's how our hospitals are going to work? So why can special treatments be operated on line, with barcode, which know exactly what the costs are, whether there is control, why there is no waste and then earn in resources? Why don't we also earn in resources, return them to the ERC hospitals and make more recruitments, upgrade the TDIs, open more intensive treatment units? Because that is the question of the honourable Member, which is of great interest. So the organisation for 2020 is, like, organised measures, structural measures, not clawback only. They managed clawback to reach 48% and to be lame and the private market is obviously paying and not being able to do so at the moment - we make doses settings, etc. - to find a way to keep paying the private sector what we have to do in order to be able to function as a state, which takes the tax from the private sector, so that it can operate and make social policy, above all, health. So this design is: responsibilities in the administration and the Ministry, linking the ‘BI’ system to the hospitals, e-prescription, electronic auctions and electronic supplies, organization of what the quantities of medicinal products and structural measures are with these two committees, which will be supported by service actors from behind, for how it is controlled what is given by medical protocols. These are all weapons at the doctor's patron for how to better operate the system within their clinics, to know what's going on with us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u123	We move to the third with No 24/23-9-2019 topical question of the second question of the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Agreement of the EEA with private clinics for the disposal of beds in intensive care units". Mr. Poula, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there is a well-known and time-consuming problem of the inadequacy of beds in intensive care units in public hospitals. Especially during the winter months when incidents increase due to the influenza virus, the problem is swelling. I have served many years at the “Argos General Hospital” and the stay of intersected patients in the hospitals until they find an intensive unit was a very frequent phenomenon. Apart from the beds of intensive care units which are closed due to the lack of staff, there is also an unequal distribution of intensive treatment beds in provincial hospitals. I will give you an example of the 6th RU, to which I belong and which represents the Peloponnese Region. The number of beds operating is small to meet the needs of the population, which is doubled during summer months due to tourism. For example, there are four beds at the hospital in Tripoli, at the Panarcadium, six beds in Kalamata and five in Corinth. Kalamata's right now doesn't work because the site is being disinfected. However, these cannot serve all the inhabitants of the region. In Argolida, you know very well that there are two hospitals and an intensive treatment unit. So, necessarily, all the incidents are carried out in Attica. So at this point I also take the opportunity to tell you that as a worker in the National Health System, which I served for twenty-seven years, I would like to stress that the ICUs of public hospitals are absolutely reliable and operate perfectly, scientifically and responsibly. The fact is that the private hospitals often carry heavy incidents to the state hospitals, and even to the pups. Minister, there seems to be an effort from you on behalf of the Ministry to deal with the many problems of coordinating and serving patients in the existing beds of intensive care units. In recent years, I am told that you have been negotiating with the owners of private clinics for new rental prices for their beds due to the termination of existing contracts. Of course, this is a temporary solution that has been in place for years, in order to cover, on a temporary basis, the existing gaps in the beds of the intensive care units in the public sector. In any case, this is a choice that costs the patient and his family a great deal. It is known that EEAY does not cover 100% of daily care costs in private intensive care units, so that the patient is finally asked to pay a significant amount. Obviously the solution you choose is to increase the amount of daily coverage to make private ICUs more attractive. But is that what this is all about? In my opinion, the question is to address the problem of the operation of the ICM as a whole, on the basis of a specific target and long-term planning, to meet the needs of patients throughout the country. So I ask you, Minister, what is the short-term and long-term planning of the Ministry to address the needs in intensive care beds? What is the cost paid annually by the EEAS to private clinics under the contract signed and expected to end? Is this amount expected to be increased in the next contract? Is it expected to increase the coverage rate for patients on a daily basis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u125	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, there is particular appreciation and respect for your long term term term service and experience in the ERC. The experience, after all, is not won. It is bought over time with great effort and effort. So, your analysis of the National Health System and how it works in the Region as it is about intensive care units, I accept it, as you say. However, I did not negotiate to increase the price of private-sector beds to what has to do with the IFs. On the contrary, I have started and I call directors of the ESS to come to Mrs Kotanidou in "Evangelism" and ask them what the problems are and what the pathogens are and how we can support the ESS intensive treatment units. Because I know what both ministers know here. And I think, good faith, I tried to do my best. Last year we had an average of 100 anticipations in the months of the flu outbreak - December, January, February and March - for intensive treatment units. That's the evidence they gave me, Minister. Seventy, eighty, ninety, little difference. And as many as in theoretical terms as you can say in relation to me, many are again. So what do I say? I say that first of all it is prevention and then treatment. I therefore recommend and recommend, as the Ministry of Health in cooperation with the vaccination committee and with the medical and pharmaceutical associations and with anyone who speaks at public forums about the vaccination campaign, now, early, for vulnerable groups, first and foremost, for children after, but also for medical staff, the possibility of being vaccinated in time at least for the influenza virus. One of this. Secondly, I have said publicly, in the few times I have spoken, that the first priority in what has to do with the hospitals of the RIS is TLs and the ITHs. So the recruitment we are going to do will be directed mainly there. There's a word. Some say six nurses for a doctor, for a IF bed. I believe three nurses for a doctor, and we're okay. For MFFs even less. MFFs are also useful. I understand they're not at the same level as the CFDs for cardiovascular events, but they can support. There is also one point which I would like to discuss with my fellow Members at some point about the years and how this can be regulated. I'll call one of the DHS directors who are head of the ICU, discuss and find a solution. First of all, however, I am concerned about this. Permanent recruitment to cover gaps both in the centre and in the periphery. Can the problem be solved directly only with this? We know very well that we don't. So a Minister must have an alternative, moving along with something else. That's for granted. This is the first priority. I'm talking to the DHS directors first. Who's the other one? You have known for many years that private clinics have been giving about, if I'm not mistaken, fifty beds. For the situation we faced last year and we will probably face it this year and, because prevention is the beginning of treatment, I asked the EEAS to negotiate the possibility of extending more beds. So, first of all, this gives all my political aiming to do with the ESS, permanent recruitment and staffing in developed beds and, secondly, from the private sector, which we already have fifty beds, to be able to have more. That is what we hope will be able to produce better results during the months of the outbreak. It is clear that in Greece these months now are the four that I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u127	Here you go, Mr. Poula.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u128	Minister, I have listened very carefully. What I see is that in recent years enough money has been spent to meet the needs of patients entering intensive care units at private clinics. It's a pretty big amount. If we had collected these amounts and used the NRP, we could have, at the moment we were talking about opening up several units, several beds in intensive care units, state. You cannot understand the anxiety a doctor feels in provincial hospitals that invade a sick person and keep him there for two and three days. That's the big problem. Being lucky and finding a bed within the next three or four hours is the right one. However, unfortunately, if the patient is too old, he often does not even get to the intensive care unit. That is why we need to streamline the system, make things a little better. I have been informed by various websites - I do not know whether this is the case - that you want to make an electronic system, an electronic platform in which beds appear, that the doctor who is in the province and the doctor who is in Athens or Thessaloniki can see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u129	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u130	However, this also involves some problems, which I believe we will talk about when you bring them to the House. The problem, then, is that we cannot give the state sector to the private sector. I do not believe, in other words, that you want to open a door to the private sector through the rental of these beds. In addition, since 1983, we have been in favour of publicity and as much efforts as possible to change the public character of the ESS have fallen into the vacancy. So I believe that you too will be on this line and you will support the public character of the ERC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u131	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, I do not disagree with you. I want to ensure the public character of the ERC. I see no place in our initiatives as political leadership. The problem lies mainly in Attica. For example, in Macedonia, Thessaloniki, the wait for a PTH is much smaller, of the order of two, three hours, while in Attica there is a very big problem and the region is dependent. We have to regulate everything. What you are saying is something that is past practice. It was inaugurated at some point, based on the needs and mainly on the anguish of a man and his family, which is in a difficult situation. However, I repeat that our first priority is not that. I have already mentioned to you the Director of the 'Invitation', with which I have discussed it. I have also discussed with other ICU directors and I will do it with everyone throughout the country, to see those people who have knowledge of the work, to tell us what their views are about how the situation can be improved. We said: small, measurable steps. The one who wants to lead the health sector and be a political leader at the Ministry of Health and is coming out and making large announcements and plans gloriously for reforms in the ESS, is usually punished at the very next moment. We therefore need to improve the situation, the beds that are developed, and, at the same time, we have the possibility of having a second solution to this year's winter, which are already fifty beds, and to extend them, neither with an increase in prices nor with anything. When the time comes, then, in December, and we will have the situation that we will face every day, the ministers also dealt with it last year and all these years, so that we can provide solutions. And I repeat that the best solution, the first solution, is prevention and then it is dealing with it. It is, if you will, also a hint to our fellow doctors - not all of them are vaccinated - with the nursing staff and, of course, with our children, but also with the vulnerable groups. It's essential, it's very important, it's cobia. They're losing human lives like this. Thank you for your question, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u133	Thank you. We close this cycle with the sixth question under number 38/24-9-2019 in the second cycle of the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthi to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Reforming to primary health care (PHY) and the prospect of local health units". Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I really will not be tempted to respond to the headlines that have previously existed. We will have time, I think, and on the occasion of the bill - I hope you will shortly - to give the appropriate answers, because there is a lot of communication at this time and a little substance, as I have said. I'm closing this parentheses. On the matter now, which I think is very important, I would like to say that I think it is a common place in the debate on the health system in Greece that there has been a deficit in organised public primary health care over time and that the health system has been very hospitalized and very focused on the care of the disease and not on its prevention, health care, etc. So we had a landscape deficit, which was completely demolished, especially in urban centres, after the 2014 intervention with Law 4238, which effectively disorganised the structures of the then IKA - EEAY, the old multi-mediums, that is, placed in availability, because for one month their operation was stopped, and extinguished about two and a half thousand qualified doctors out of the health system. This created conditions of complete disorganization. In this context, therefore, we have come to do a serious reform section, in our view, first by supporting existing structures, strengthening them as far as possible, especially with subsidiary doctors - because this could have been the case in the previous period, because there were no organic positions in these structures - and developing a new model, a model with decentralised public structures, which were developed with a priority in areas where the population was facing problems and income degradation in the years of crisis and also difficulties of access to health structures. We have therefore managed to convince the institutions of the Commission that this model should be financed as an innovative action and that it has a time horizon with guaranteed funding with European funds for over four years. A hundred and twenty - seven new public structures have been developed in this direction, serving a thousand percent of health professionals, about three hundred fifty doctors and the rest are health visitors, nurses, social workers and managers. The nuclear element of these structures is that for the first time the institution of the family doctor in Greece, which has a specific population of registered citizens and is supported by an interdisciplinary team, is being implemented. This was also the crucial element of the innovation of this intervention and that these structures do not expect the patient to go to the structure, but they develop actions that are extroverted, interventions to prevent and treat health in the community, information in schools, in the KAPIs, in the daily care centres of the elderly. So this, Mr Minister, is a new model that is positively assessed by the citizens. There is a study by the World Health Organisation on indicators of citizens' satisfaction with their contact and assistance from these structures. It is positively appreciated by the Commission and the recent report - I will present it in the Minutes - for the reform uncertainties that our country has in mind the need to complete this model. It is a report by the Commission in May 2019 to complete the development of TOMY. It is also positively evaluated by the World Health Organisation, which was our technical consultant in this effort. I therefore think that we have put hundreds of thousands of people - we have not just added - who serve, in a free manner, hundreds of thousands of people. They have already reached about three hundred thousand free visits to these structures. It is not only the care and regulation actions of the chronic sufferers. It is that a new philosophy enters into the health system that says that ESS is not just the hospital, patient care is not the only case of the doctor. Primary care does not mean prescription and prevention not only check up. It is a much wider and holistic approach to people's needs. So that is what I consider to be a significant change of model. There has been a huge effort to move forward and to complete this work, of course with difficulties. Difficulties to find buildings, difficulties to find always available doctors, mainly because of Brain drain and scientific migration, and to find the appropriate grid of incentives to attract special young scientists.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Xanthos, we've completely violated the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u136	I shall conclude, Mr President. The contribution - I would like to stress this - and the perfect structure of the Ministry's NRP and of the Primary Care Department, as well as the Ministry's and all the health regions that have undertaken to carry out this innovative work and this serious reform is excellent. I really think it is a national bet to complete this reform in primary care and in the institution of the family doctor. I think that you must quickly - and that I hope to hear today - give up on tax and destruction approaches that have been in the past and commit that not only will you support today's structures, but you will also contribute to their further development.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u137	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u138	I will speak a little louder, Mr President, because, because I am tall, I am far from the microphone and I am probably not listening. Mr President, the previous political leadership - and this is a political decision - has decided that it will channel all the data, the possibilities of the NRP to TOMY. I'm not saying it's good or bad, but I'm saying it's because you asked me if we could use them from the NRP. It was the political aim and co-financing was first through the operational programme: "Reforming the public sector", one part, and after the MAGPs. And I do not feel at all in the mood and appetite, Mr Minister, and my colleague, to question the good intentions. I just want to say that we all know very well that in the forty-five years of postpopulation a Minister of Health has become funny to come and pre-primary health care. Why? Because, Mr President, it has never been fully implemented, there has never been a result that satisfys the citizen, and we have never seen anything that will really be gatekeeping, in fact it will attract the average Greek family, the citizen, so that it can certainly go there and then to our hospitals in the RIS. So we have to see - I have all the good will to talk about it - what is the problem as a whole and why it is not. For whatever initiatives have been taken in the past, they have remained incomplete or have not been effective. Is it true that about a hundred and twenty structures have been opened and that others should be opened up to two hundred and thirty? Two hundred thirty, you said. Of course it is. Are these structures all staffed, as appropriate, embedded? No, and we both know. Are these structures working around the clock? Because it is obvious that primary health care is needed all day long, otherwise it goes back to the hospital. Oh, no. Have we really found many HSH doctors who would like to join it? Oh, no. Is this reform initiative a lot of trouble? Yes, it does. Does the Minister for Health and the political leadership want to abolish it? Oh, no. Appreciate it? Yeah. Can we turn it around? Yeah. Find out how it can work better? Yeah. We must abolish it, however, no. Because it is obviously not a solution to have the health centre and the health center here and to have two different doors or the same door. This is not reform. Or have different parts of primary health care. I say that after 2010 I want to give doctors contracts, at least to those who are new doctors - for Brain Drain spoke to the Minister -, who have received a degree after 2011 with contracts in the EEA. So first - grade care, very nice, a piece. Health centers are the second part and TOMY is the third part. So are we happy from primary health care? Is it homogenized? Does it have anything to do with it? Is it appealing to the Greeks? I don't think so. I mean, I asked for some clues. Some TOMY have two shifts overlapping 7.00 at 3.00', 3.00' at 10.00'. Some of them have one. Until 3:00 at noon. Some people have a doctor and a nurse. You understand that this is not an integrated reform. The answer may be 'to improve them'. All right, let's talk about this, see how we can improve it. That is what I say: evaluation, transformation, integration where needed. Let's see where medical equipment is missing, lacking administrative staff, lacking medical staff, where medics, who can still contribute. We can finally find a way and I think he can't be one-party. It's not about the New Democracy or the Government, or KINAL or SYRIZA. We must finally find a way, ladies and gentlemen, after all these years, to have a structured, structured and single primary health care. I mean, what? He said the Minister - and I stop at this to hear him again and answer again - about the family doctor. I agree, too. We need to find the people who really trust the average Greek family and call them and go there and talk, see, prescribe, etc. We need to involve them all in the process, so that the potential patient, the family, really wants to go to a TOMY and not directly to "Evangelism". I want us to find together a way he really wants to go to a primary health unit. First of all, it's still a team, and it needs to be a unit, as you have already done. And that's how it's going to be, too. Also, the funding you put to the question is very important. In order to be able to achieve a political initiative, one must have found a way to be financed in the international community. So how are we going to convince the world that these groups, units, health centres, etc. are really reliable to get the public there first and not to end up directly in a big hospital? There's this culture in the Greek. I got something, I'm going to the hospital. Minister, not everyone can go to hospitals. Some have to go to hospitals and they do have something, others could get away with all the suffering. So we're looking to find something trustworthy and worthwhile that can stand over, because the duration determines the value. And so far, I see this reform - and it can, in fact, be incomplete, unscrupulous, with many real problems and doubts, which you yourself and I myself have put to you for the four and a half years that you were Minister of State, on how it can rely on in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u139	Here, Mr. Xanthi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u140	My dear colleague, firstly it is important to make a political assessment of why primary care has not developed in the country. Do you know what our point of view is? Our view is that it was a political option that the public health system should not be developed, as provided for in the founding law of the ESS, Law No.1397, at the level of primary care. There has been a consensual attitude from the power parties since the 1980s that this development will be restricted only to rural health centres and large urban centres. That was the political reason. That is why we are doing this, because it is precisely because it calls for the expansion of the public health system in a field that was almost under the sovereignty of the private sector, which is why it has encountered such a strong reaction, particularly from the medical associations, which we know very well where politically is concerned. Secondly, obviously every reform is a very big change, which takes a long time to complete and deliver. This is how it is done in all reforms in the health systems of all countries in the world. And changes in primary care in other countries, neighbouring countries, the European South, etc., have taken five years and decades to develop. So we're in a year and a half, and that's the big change. You know how many laws passed after the original law of the ESS for primary care, the family doctor sometimes called him a personal doctor, etc.Huh? No one was implemented, Mr. Kikilia. Everyone was in the drawers of the Ministers. So we voted for Law 4486 on 4 August 2017 and in December of the same year the Prime Minister of the country opened the first new public structure in a degraded area of western Thessaloniki. That's the truth. And that is because we think that primary care is a tool to remove inequalities in access to and care for people. That's why we put weight on it. Of course we didn't get all the money from the ESRB. We are talking about the European Social Fund, not about the fund that finances infrastructure and equipment. This is completely different. The majority of the European Social Fund, yes, went to reform primary health care. This is going very well in management and we have good absorbance on the basis of the growth rate and the staffing we currently have. There were, of course, provisions for mental health, dependencies, etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Are all structures well staffed and providing excellent services? Apparently not. There's a rating there too. And, of course, it must be done - and it is anticipated, it is a structural element, it says the law, Article 20 of Law 4486 - an assessment, public accountability and social control. It is compulsory for these structures to be subject to the criticism of local society, its bodies, patient associations, the way in which they operate, the service they provide, the quality of services. I told you that there is already a preliminary study that positively evaluates this intervention. Because I realize that you do not have an accurate picture of the TOMY, I really, really, trustworthy, honestly, say, we go together, Mr Minister, to visit a TOMY, whatever you want, here in the Lefkanopde or in another area of the country, to see the people, the new health professionals. You know that 80% of the doctors appointed are young doctors, they are under the age of 40, precisely because the population objective was to give people a new vision, inspire people the prospect of a modern primary care system, which, for the first time, emphasises prevention, health education, community intervention, home care, school health, etc.Huh? All health professionals and the rest of the staff are really excellent, and they are willing to do their job. And citizens realise that there is another system here, another way of working, another relationship between the citizen and the ESS. So I think that you are taking a step today, I have to acknowledge it. I see a turn. I don't want to talk about cybia. Because we need to remember what was called a while ago. Prime Minister Mitsotakis at the conference in Yannina last year, at which the New Democracy Health Programme had presented unnecessarily and paranoid structures. The New Democracy Health Officer when discussing these issues said that these are Soviet-type models to which the new government will come and put 'h', so Mr. Economou told us. I am pleased that today is an attempt at a realistic approach to this problem. You should know that if you invest in this prospect, Mr Kikilia, you will have - and I personally tell you - a much more positive balance sheet at the end of the day. I conclude by saying this: Mr Kikilia, we will be very much discussing each other's things and, of course, the health system has time-consuming problems before the crisis and before the memorials, and uncovered needs, and shortcomings, and suffering, and inconvenience, and the exploitation of the disease, and the outbreaks of lawlessness and corruption. And we will discuss the structural measures that we have taken over the past period. They were important reforms in both the medicine and here in the primary care that was the ultimate gap. You, unfortunately, closed public structures within the Memorandum. Mr. Georgiadis closed them in 2014. He's booked hospitals. Patisia Hospital, known as the priests, we reopened it - had downloaded rolls - as a centre for civil health. And you can go visit it. They are extremely pleased by the people of the region because they have easy access. In a landscape that had begun to become a ruin we added a hundred and twenty - seven new public structures. With problems? With problems, but so forth, these steps are taking slowly. We therefore leave a reform print and primary care, and people's access, and investment in the public health system, and their morality, and we are proud of it. I hope you, in fact, do not leave a print of abandonment, depreciation and disorganisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u141	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Now, I am opposed to the last party. The Minister wanted to make a mini-review. I'm leaving him out. He's not in the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u143	I said 'I hope'. I don't do intent trial.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u144	All right, Minister. I have a lot to say about this part.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u145	Life will answer it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u146	That's right, Mr. President. With your well-known wisdom, you put things on the right basis. Listen, I repeat, we'll evaluate we'll evolve, we'll incorporate. I hear that the 'polistic approach' and action in the community is, of course, fine. However, a judge is the Greek people, the Greek family, our citizens. I repeat, they see an effort, a good thing I say on your part and with a reformist attitude, which is in place. I explained why. I'll give you an example. You say you are very sensitive to the part of refugees, migrants, that you support this system, the flows, etc. You developed in a year and a half. Only 20% of them, the lowest indicator is in the Aegean islands, i.e. the northeast Aegean and the southern Aegean, where necessary, in small societies. Our hospitals are tightening up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u147	We called for positions, but there was no response. Four TOMYs we had predicted for Mytilini.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u148	Minister, if you're kind, I have not interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u149	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u150	So, where the problem really existed, there I did not see any targeting anywhere, I did not see any politics, I did not see any organization, I did not see any tactics, I did not see any strategy. We now have to deal with a situation that has been cumulated. I do not want to talk about Moria, I leave her out, because I think the last argument on what the previous administration has done has been shot down, how this matter has been handled. However, there are health policies to be implemented for these people. Prevention didn't exist. At Attica, I'm telling you you've developed twelve TOMY. The four operate until three o'clock at noon due to a minimum composition. So you're doing a reform, but it's better to organise it first, to have a target, to know really if you want doctors to take part in it or not - because you're making a lot of efforts by cutting down contracts from the EEA to force them to go to TOMY - and if it's working. I repeat, abolish it, as you say and abolish it, no. To evaluate it, to develop it, to modernise it, to show up what is positive and to be able to make it sustainable in the middle of the century and to be a comprehensive reform in primary health care, yes, but without much talk, because, I repeat, many people have said it in the Migration and few have applied it and with the corresponding absorption to the weight of funds...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u151	Minister, I would like to ask you a question. Are you going to hire new recruits?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u152	Here, Mr. Xanthi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u153	The criterion of good intentions is the act. The question is, will you make a new call? We did two to cover up...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u154	And a third that has not contacted the NRW officials and a notice of new positions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u155	Is it going to happen? Will you get a new contract notice? That's what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u156	We'll get out, Minister, new proclamation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u157	Positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the first question under number 32/23-9-2019 on the second question of the new Republic of Athens, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Legal regulations for pedestrians". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy Dimitrios Economou. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u160	First of all, I am pleased that you have responded poorly to the current question that some people may think is not of primary importance, as of course health issues. I mean, I tabled it on 23 September, and today it is already being discussed. I'm also glad that I have a specialist on the subject I'm going to develop, because you're biographically an expert on urban planning. Because in Greece we have laws, but the executive has never received a spatial planning, resulting in the situation in the cities, and in particular in the capital and more specialized in the center of Athens, to be unacceptable, chaotic, because there are no basic rules for placement that serve everyday culture. On the occasion of the timely question I was given a report from the Secretary-General of Spatial Planning and Urban Environment of your Ministry, Mr Bakoyannis, who said that he has made a proposal to the Transport Ministry concerning this new scourge, which is the uncontrolled and illegal circulation of skateboards, as well as many bicycles where the Road Traffic Code should lay rules for the use of these usefuls otherwise and valuable for the environment and traffic in, which is the skateboard and bicycles. I fear, however, that legislation on how to run skates, whether to run at twenty miles, fifteen kilometres or sixty-five kilometres without control now, does not solve the problem, because we have to make it clear that the pavements are also constitutionally reserved as an exclusive space for the free and secure movement of citizens. Will the Minister therefore ask: is the Ministry prepared to prioritise the integrated, first and foremost, planning of the necessary conditions so as to clearly separate the traffic spaces of anyone moving from the pedestrian? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mrs. Pipili. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, my fellow Member, for the question. We responded immediately, because it is the first priority for us to protect pedestrians and, more generally, to recover public space, which first concerns pedestrians and also millions of citizens of all categories. There are no people who benefit from this situation. Simply, some suffer adverse consequences more than others with the mess of pavements, pedestrians and squares. The problems are multiple. One of the causes of the deterioration of pedestrians, pedestrians, etc., and the difficulties of pedestrians is illegal or irregular traffic of vehicles. Inside these are what you said, but there are the others, the bikes that run, the cars that park, etc. This is a form of infringibility. There are other forms of infraction, affecting the public space, such as the illegal occupation of part of the public space, illegal or legal, but not abusive. Cases such as noise pollution, etc. are known. So there is a whole question of infringibility. A second major problem, which is linked to public spaces, is the failures of planning. Very often designs of public spaces themselves are wrongly designed. One of the reasons is that there were no clear and binding specifications. It is not the only cause, of course, but there are also failures due to scholars. The third problem relates to the maintenance and cleanliness of public spaces. The fourth problem and the most difficult thing is that many of the problems - and the previous ones, but others - have deep structural roots, such as bad regulation. In an area where the sidewalk is a measure, it is very difficult today to change, because it has been formed twenty years ago and obviously there the scope for substantial intervention is much more limited, not inexistent, but much more limited than in a new area which is now being built up. I now come to what the Ministry of the Environment will do. We have four axes on which to move. The first is to improve the legislative framework. In this context, we are already drawing up a national action plan on sustainable urban mobility, which is a strategic plan, while at the same time setting up a working group which will now, at practical level, define technical specifications for the design and operation of public spaces. The timetable for this working group is three months. The conclusion will be consolidated. So far there have been such fragmentary arrangements, but they have not been mandatory. We're going to institutionalize it. Evidently, the application will again be differentiated according to objective realities. In other words, otherwise in an area with one metre pavement, and otherwise in an area with four meter hikes. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] The second move we are going to make is the development of a programme of intervention for the recovery of public space. These programmes will be implemented by the municipalities, because in the end they are responsible. There are already such actions today. We will, however, make them more coherent, with greater funding and we will also link financing for such projects with strict observance of the technical standards, which I have already mentioned, and I estimate that we will have them permanently at the beginning of the year. So this will also be an incentive and a counter-incentive for compliance or non-compliance with these standards, because there is legislation, as we know, but it is often not complied with. This incentive I am saying, which is an economic incentive, an incentive through the market, will help in some cases to better comply with the laws and the new better laws. At the same time, of course - and here it is the third axis - it is not only the Ministry of the Environment, which is involved in this story, but it is the factors that are multiple and only if there is a holistic approach we will be able to achieve results. What are we gonna do? We will try to mobilise all the stakeholders, to be speeding up in some way, but obviously we cannot replace the other stakeholders. The main such bodies are municipalities, which have responsibilities and tools, such as the Municipal Police, such as the provisions on sanitary shops, tables, etc. - So these will have to be observed by the municipalities, I think we'll be better supervised - and also by the Greek police and the Ministry of Civil Protection. You must also have the repressive part of politics, you must have the positive part. It is a positive part that I mentioned earlier, namely the speeches. The repressive part will be from other bodies, but not from us. That is in theory the answer, and if you want anything else, I would be happy to refer to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u163	Mrs. Pipilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u164	It is gratifying that the relevant Ministry admits that at some point in time to check, the main cause for which the check can be carried out is the financial control of all the members. For the largest social - in introductory - 'criminals' which offend everyday culture, are undeniably the municipalities, the mayors, who in order for them to have revenues, for example from bank seats, put them - I speak as an MEP in Athens and stand in my region - everywhere, even in pavements that have no wreaths over two metres, so that the pedestrians are forced to go down to the ground so that they can do their jobs. There is the Police, there is Tracy, there is the Municipal Police, which, in particular, in recent years, in my view, have allowed them to run great-circuit motorcycles and smaller in the sidewalks across the House. If you now go to Queen Wisdom, the motorcycles run on the sidewalks and go in front of the wheelchair of the House. This is the most obvious example. To conclude, the municipalities - quite rightly you put it - should they want to have financial assistance from the state, they should strictly comply with the rules. Please change the legislation very much to prevent any municipality from using stand-bys, bank seats and health-care facilities, if the sidewalk fence - you will judge it, but more so we, the pedestrians - are not enough for a social merger of all needs. And I end up giving you this as a gift, this. I have just seen a pleasant news from the newspaper "Type of Thessaloniki", which says "It will rain" fines for scooters" in Agia Sophia in Thessaloniki, because there too the citizens have the same problems we have in the center of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. I couldn't agree more. We're on the same wavelength. The point is that we should be able to implement what we say in practice. I would just like to add the following. For the first thing you have raised, the separation of different forms of pedestrian, wheeled, shoe, etc. will indeed be regulated in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u167	Not on the sidewalks, clearly!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u168	Not all of us everywhere, but we have to bear in mind that, as appropriate, there should also be appropriate flexibility. So let us see what is happening abroad in cities of civilised countries such as Copenhagen. There are roads on which engines and cars move in the same lane. There are roads on which there are absolute separation. So it is also a matter of specific circumstances, but certainly the principle is segregation and where there is no separation, it will only be where it is allowed. The issue of infringibility, therefore, is finally coming back. The second point I would like to raise, which has to do with the final application of the regulations, is that, through a new College of auditors with outsourcing in the private sector, but also with public supervision on urban matters, to which the Ministry is making progress, some of the checks will be carried out and on what is being done in the public area. We will therefore have a direct supply of information and we will be able to react immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Minister. Last for today is the seventh under No 40/24-9-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece.Giannis Delis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "New deadly accidents at the quarry of Drama". Mr. Economou will answer the timely question. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. As the President has said, the opportunity for today's question is a tragic event. A young worker, twenty-five years old, was killed at the time of work in one of Drama’s marble quarries. It is a region in general, eastern Macedonia - Thrace, where it is located the most important quartz field of marble in Greece. There are five active quarries, where at the moment a hundred and thirty-five marble quarries are operating. Production reaches about 90% of our country's marble production and, of course, all this quantity, almost all of it, is exported and represents the majority of Greek marble exports. In the sector, now, the marble, mining, processing and marketing work for about five thousand people. As we have said, this is all in the region of eastern Macedonia - Thrace and especially in Drama, most industrial units in this sector are assembled. But, Minister, accidents and accidents, unfortunately, are multiplying because of the lack of, essentially, safety measures and, essentially, the lack of control measures by the State, again by public services. Let me mention a macabre number here. In the last three years, we have six dead workers in these quarries of death, while there are dozens of crippled workers in this hard work. The most recent is what happened in the beginning of the month, on 4 September, with the twenty-five-year-old young worker. Look, this crime can't go on anymore, because it's a crime. The Government is of the opinion that it must assume its responsibilities immediately and that it must stop - and we say that for all the governments and yours - acting as Pontius Pilate. So, Minister, the conditions of this recent accident, in which a young man, as we have said, needs to be investigated, of course, and the needs of the family of this unfortunate worker must be fully met. Of course, the necessary measures must be taken to ensure that safety and hygiene are respected - safety is the first - together with, of course, the workers' working and insurance rights. To train workers, with the responsibility of the employer, which should bear the cost of training workers for such a difficult and hard work. And, of course, to control these industrial units, the marble quarries from the state services, as strictly as possible, their mechanical equipment, which I must say is obsolete, of course replaced. Finally, if you have noticed in the written text of our question, we say that we need to strengthen the Medals of Northern Greece, which has its headquarters in Thessaloniki. But there could also be an annex to the Drama region, where this mining activity is primarily developing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u171	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Your Honor, for the question. In fact, the tragic accident is saddening all of us, and you and us. The point is how these accidents will be reduced. To answer directly the questions you raised, I should first of all like to say that the accident did not occur in a quarry. It happened in a factory facility in a Protosani industrial park. So he's not in a quarry, he's in a factory. In this case, it is not the Mining Inspectors of the Ministry of the Environment but the Labour Inspectors of the Ministry of Labour. We have contacted the Ministry of Labour and they have informed us that immediately after the accident, a step of inspectors has gone to the field of the accident and are preparing a finding, which will also be communicated to the competent authorities and - if there is a reason - to the competent judicial authorities. As far as the second part of your question is concerned, for the checks carried out, I will submit to you a document, which contains some information on both the controls and the accidents that have taken place in northern Greece over the last three years. For this year, it includes until September. As you will see, accidents do not increase over time. For example, in 2017 the reported mining accidents were fifty-five. In 2018, the accidents were forty-six. In 2019, until September, it is forty-six more accidents. In other words, there is no marked statistical increase, but there is no reduction. In any case, fifty-five accidents are not a little, of course. Of course, they are not all deadly, but they are accidents, in which there are human victims with different concepts of the term. Controls are done. For example, ninety-nine movements of auditors were made in 2017 for various reasons of audit, etc. In 2018, eighty-one moves were made. This year, travels have fallen into forty-one in quarters. The last question you raise is a real one. The services are subordinated for the same reasons as other public services are, of course, subordinated. Obviously the government's choice is to deal with this problem both at the level of managers and at the level of equipment. This will be done - we are working on it - within the framework of the possibilities of this period, of course. I am going to stay on this, and I shall refer to the question of a possible local annex of the Corps of Northern Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, too. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u174	First of all - and I refer to the question - I said it at the edge of the word that it was done in a quarry. The death of this new worker took place in a marble processing plant. But I don't think that matters, Mr. Undersecretary. It is important that we have a new worker, who was killed, and he worked in the marble industry. Now, if it was in mining, whether it was in processing or in marketing, that doesn't matter. You said - and that does not satisfy us - that there is no increase in accidents. Look, since 2013, the number of dead, the killed workers in the marble industry in the region has been doubled. You cannot come here and say that there are no incidents and that accidents are reduced, when accidents occur and when the number of dead workers is increased. We believe that the frequency with which these accidents occur, accidents - employers' crimes are in fact - throughout the marble industry, it shows nothing but a measure of intensification and the lack of job safety measures in this sector, in a sector in which entrepreneurs have literally broke down from profits and, indeed, during the time of the crisis. And that's no accident at all. Their profitability is continuous, growing. Many workers, as we have said, are losing their lives, are being dismantled and forced to work for up to six days without sectoral contracts, with individual contracts, with incomplete or non-existent conditions of health and safety. And all this is happening very simply, Mr. Undersecretary, because it's the prerequisites to make the profits and to get this long-term growth, as you say. We think they have huge responsibilities and governments, all governments, over the years, who have maintained this incomplete legislative framework for security measures in these workplaces. Finally, they leave workers' protection at the goodwill of their employers. You and your Government, like the previous, serious responsibilities for deforestation - you have confessed - the Medals Inspectorate and the Labour Inspectorate, together. These public services, you know, have the most shortcomings. In fact, there was one element published in "RIZOPASTI", that in order to complete a check on all businesses it will take more than a decade. These are the shortcomings in labour inspections. We think that at some point the Ministry should announce the findings of these investigations on these dozens of employers' crimes, especially in this region, which usually lead to death. Because these accidents, Minister, are not due either to carelessness or to the bad moment. One is known and responsible, and we know him. It is the great employer and it is, of course, the governments that support it, because one is cutting and the other is sewing. The employer does not understand anything in the face of profit. Labour rights see them as obstacles, which is why it neglects them, so that its business can compete and, of course, governments over time support these big-time employers. Indeed, they - you know, we write it in the question - take so courageously, they come to confess, announce - and this is a public announcement by the Marbles Business Association of Macedonia - Thrace, please - that facilitating the renewal of their equipment from the state, for the quarrying, will make a decisive contribution to improving safe operation and we will have fewer accidents. In other words, they also admit that there are no security measures, that they have old, unseparated equipment that often leads young people to death and have the courage to ask that the state grant them - not to reduce their profits, alas! - to do what they have to do. We think it is a characteristic, a flagship example for all workers to understand what 'growth for all' means. What is happening in the region of Drama with the quarries, with the big exports, with the huge profits of capitalists working in this sector, we think it is a characteristic. What we have to say, in conclusion, is that the workers are not to be cowardly, not to compromise with the situation and to claim now, directly - they need their lives - collective agreements, to claim increases, to claim security measures before all about a job not only with rights, but also for a job that they know will go and return safe at noon at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. You said that it doesn't matter who the body involved is. We have responded, because there was a question that was addressed to the Ministry of the Environment. So we're telling you that because the accident occurred not in a quarry, but also in some other space...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u177	But the government is united.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u178	Wait a minute, wait a minute. This does not mean that there are no responsibilities or that there is no overall responsibility in the final analysis, but obviously every body has specific responsibilities and therefore the question must first of all be addressed to it and then to the entire government. Secondly, I do not accept what you said that safety measures and hygiene conditions and compliance with regulations are inexistent. I certainly do not accept that. No, it's not. There is always room for improvement, but obviously if it were no longer there, we would have a disaster, a hundred, we would not have the accidents that we have, which are of course many, but another one that there is no safety measures. The fact that there is room for improvement from both the state and the business side is also a fact. We agree, too. Under no circumstances does the government support the violation of labour rules or safety measures. That is what we are absolute. Where specific complaints exist, we will certainly intervene and intervene, but general wordings of the kind that security measures are generally inexistent in Greece, we do not accept that. Anything that is specific, however, we are prepared to discuss and take all possible measures to address the problem and to impose sanctions. On the last point you raised in your initial speech, on a local section in Drama, the subject is this and I am always referring to mines. The Mining Inspection requires an extremely qualified staff. Today there are two inspections, North and South Greece, just to have some economies of scale and concentration and to be able to have staff who are already lacking, of course, and we want to increase it and we will do so. The division in several units will further increase the problem of the lack of qualified personnel. So we don't think it's the best solution. That, however, is a technical issue, obviously. The point is to have results. We fully agree on that, and I think that in the near future there will be improvements. I'll say one last thing. I'm sorry to have to eat time, but I never said accidents were being reduced. I said the last three years seem to have stabilised. That's what I said. I am also not questioning what you say that if we calculate a longer period of time, they have increased. The numbers are data. There is no question of having fifty or forty accidents is satisfactory. It's obviously not. It must be reduced as much as possible. But I did not mention what you said to me that there was a reduction in accidents, that the situation might be satisfactory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u179	That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Colleagues, the Minutes of Saturday 20 July 2019, Sunday 21 July 2019, Tuesday 30 July 2019, Monday 5 August 2019, Tuesday 6 August 2019, Wednesday 7 August 2019 and Thursday 8 August 2019 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u180	The Minutes of Saturday 20 July 2019, Sunday 21 July 2019, Tuesday 30 July 2019, Monday 5 August 2019, Tuesday 6 August 2019, Wednesday 7 August 2019 and Thursday 8 August 2019 were validated. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-27-S1-commons.u181	With the consent of the House at 12.57 the sitting on Monday, September 30, 2019, at 17.00, on the subject of this House's work, is closed: (a) the topical and urgent debate and (b) the debate on No. 1/24-9-2019 topical question by Members of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Group to the Finance, Development and Investment Ministers, Culture and Sport and the Deputy Prime Minister to the Prime Minister, Mr Petsa, on the subject: "About the acquisition of the company "FORTHNET" by the company "ALTER EGO" and the concentration of media control."
