ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before we move on to today's special agenda, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Thursday 17 January 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 266/14-1-2019 from the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Nicholas Maniou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Education Problems'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 267/14-1-2019 by Mr Athanasios Bourrain to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: ‘New Organiser of the Single Social Security Agency (ESMA)’. 3. The question by No 274/15-1-2019, by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Image of the collapse of the irrigation network of the GEOB Pineion - Alpheus". 4. The 260/9-1-2019 topical question by Piraeus I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 268/14-1-2019 of the New Democracy MP Christou Boukorou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'Following the Single Agricultural Aid and Forest Maps'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 261/9-1-2019 of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and associations of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement". 3. The Question No 263/9-1-2019 by Congressman Pireaus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister on the subject: "Cazan ready to explode the Skopje state". 4. The question by No 249/7-1-2019 that was raised by MEPs from Athens, New Democracy, Olga Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Questions for the operation of the Intellectual Property Organisation". 5. The 255/8-1-2019 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Reading errors in the security code and in the specialisation of various forest workers". 6. The question by No 246/7-1-2019 that was raised by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity in Athens of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The Government is arbitrary against private sector workers by not recovering, for housing purposes, the 1% withheld contribution on their wages".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Continue the debate and vote on the Prime Minister's proposal for a vote of confidence in the government in accordance with Rules 84 of the Constitution and 141 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The first is the speech by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Balafas. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the vote of confidence, as expected, has evolved into a debate on all of the matter, with characteristics - and this was next - an explanation of the four-year period before us. Of course, it will take place in October 2019 and we absolutely believe that it will be good for us. It would be good, however, not to forget where we were just four years ago, so that we could make the necessary comparisons. Report also means a comparative view of things. I read: Official Journal of 16 January 2015, just four years ago. The left-hand column hosted a report on "opening" Samaras in the pro-European middle space. It was when Mr. Samaras was still trying to convince us he was central right. Later it became the so-called "male school", with nationalist and extreme right-wing references. The main article of the newspaper itself on the same day was "Government with Cooperatives" and noted the relevant article: "No one single-party government can deal with the extremely difficult situation that is formed in the country. Let all political leaders decide that Greece has passed," he said in 2015, "in the era of understanding and partnership". As far as the economy is concerned, the report said: "Very close to the ELA Greek banks. Request from two institutions.’ He meant the emergency liquidity mechanism. I'll testify. Also, in the newspaper ‘TA NEWs’, again January 16, 2015. At that time, I guess the good newspaper saw us more sympatheticly than now, but its central title spoke of “Two-year-old messages about the debt of central bankers and markets”. Perhaps, because of SYRIZA's obvious release after a while. I'll testify to that, too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Balafas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned publications, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That was the situation, ladies and gentlemen, four years ago. It is, however, like a lot more years have passed. Today, compared to the four years ago, Greece is a completely different country and, in our opinion, a better country, in a much better situation. Why? Because today our country's prestige is clearly upgraded, not only in Europe, but in the whole Mediterranean area. Even Mrs Merkel seems to fall too far for the New Democracy. Today - let us not forget - the simple analogue, which leads to governments of wider partnerships, would facilitate this direction, and would be the case in the next elections, if they had the courage, in particular, from the Change Movement, to vote in favour of it. Today, economic figures, particularly the debt issue, are not at the forefront. It is considered and is confronted with the fact that, let me say, Mr Simitis's exception does not make it an insurmountable problem. Today, banks are in a much better situation than four years ago. And today, the New Democracy has been removed from the pro-European medium-sized space and its leadership is a pretext for a extreme right-wing group. I would say, however, and would complement that unfortunately the Change Movement, its leadership policy, seems not only to change tax records, but has also suffered strong alterations in his DNA. I'd like to add a few more things. Today they work, they have four hundred thousand more of our fellow citizens, compared to 2015. Today we are doing so and we are even more prepared to restore past injustices by abolishing the underpaid wage for young people under twenty-five years, increasing the minimum wage. We also promote the rental allowance, the hundred and twenty instalments for the debts to the public and insurance funds, a system of enhanced protection of the first home, etc. Overall, we are driving the country, with careful steps, gradually on a development path. Conclusion on accounting? The situation does not remind anyone in 2015, with the exception of certain persons, certain names, which come from old and think they are worthy - and they are wonderable - the legitimate owners of the country come with this air - not to say anything else - that is, the old, outdated, doomed political system. And in the course of these years they were faces and parties that led the country to the memorials and comitology, but on the other hand they were and are a system of corruption and interlocutory, which motivates the possibility of remaining for another four years away from power and without being able to determine, influence developments, for example, to raise governments and even not be able to hoodle, to cover gloomy situations. Ladies and gentlemen, this old system accuses us. Since Mr Tsiaras has come now, I would like to hear it firsthand and address his right speech, which I think is what he is. He blames us for allegedly "divorce" with the Independent Greeks. Well, every normal person from this new "discovery" of Mr. Mitsotakis remains amazed. It says "the sicic "divorce" SYRIZA and ANEL". And I wonder, are they foolish people? Are they afraid - and that is why they are slandering in advance - whether they are losing votes or not they are judging? I think this is all about three. All three happen together. I mean, they can't understand that we, either way, do what we mean. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will be a minute. With pure papers we move, in the main interest of the national interest, towards all these right-wing, extreme-right-wing populists, who have built careers on national issues by throwing their own governments, against all those who have no problem changing positions and positions and forget agreements and conditions which they themselves had agreed on. They are not, ladies and gentlemen, the Prespecies Agreement, which is the adhesive for so unequal, if you like, approaches such as those we see in these days and in the New Democracy area. It is the fear that another victory of the forces of progress and democracy will finally send them to the times of history. For our part, without hegemony, with clear positions, we call on every progressive man, every democratic citizen, parties, collectives, to support us, namely to support the national effort and to reconcile ourselves, to join together, especially today when we are finished with the old Memorandum of Understanding, today that we are making a new start. Now is the time to draw up new progressive policies, with new progressive alliances. Now is the time when we will all be judged "with whom we will go and who we will leave", as the Dionysus Savvopoulou says. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr Balafa, SYRIZA MP. We proceed with Mr. Georgios Germenis, Member of the Golden Dawn. Mr. Germenis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u5	First of all, to make it clear that Greek nationalists will not vote for Tsipras and his Government. I could tell you that we are not giving you a vote of confidence, simply because you are left-wing, you are communists and because we are ideologically against you. That would only be enough not to vote positively on the Prime Minister's proposal. I will not, however, stay on the ideological side alone, where we really have differences, and perhaps it would help you to a certain extent to disagree only with them. I shall also refer to the acts in which you have gone through bills both unpopular, although you are left and anti-national. I'll start with the anti-grass. First, you signed the third memorandum, along with the New Democracy, which the third memorandum charged the country with a new loan of EUR 86 billion and for the period 2015 to 2020 imposed 15.8 billion new taxes. Taxes for the year past, in 2018, increased by 16.8%, resulting in a dramatic decline in GDP. You said you were going to pay the tax to 12,000 euros, which you did not apply, and even the head of Euroworking Group Hans Filbriff said, "The reduction in the tax-free income was part of the package, so it should be applied. This case is different from pensions. The pensions concerned a very vulnerable group. This measure also aims to extend the tax base of the tax system. From the point of view of economic development, an expanded tax base is important.’ That's what he said about it. Asked what commitments it thinks should be addressed as a priority, he replied that Greece should proceed to all commitments, giving priority to red loans, clearing of dues and privatisations. The Dutch official has made it clear that possible judicial decisions on the legality of pension cuts and gifts for civil servants, which could be additional to the budget, would be a great risk and could require corrective measures. He then says about the increase in the minimum wage, which you publish you will bring: “It must be discussed with the institutions. I will not say that this is out of discussion, but you have to be very careful, because Greece is very high unemployment and people have been out of the labour market for a long time. Productivity is low, and if you increase minimum wages employment opportunities do not increase. It is a dangerous issue and the institutions will consider it very carefully." In other words, the gentlemen you are talking about, like this Mr. Filbriff, think that if you raise the minimum wage, there will be a problem for the market and the jobs of the lower layers, which will be subject to most of the anti-grassroots measures. So do not mock at this point the Greek voters and the Greek people. You sold out the public property. Airports were given to Fraport, ports at ‘COSCO’. The auctions have not been suspended. Every day we have auctions and not in large red loans of EUR 600,000 and EUR 700,000, we have also for EUR 120,000 auctions and take the homes of Greek citizens for five-dollars. We had the sale of the OSE to the Italians with the sum of EUR 50 million. Even Ronaldo's transfer from Real to Yuventus didn't cost 50 million euros, and you, with 50 million euros, sold OSE. We also have a reduction in social costs of EUR 6 billion in weak social groups, abolition of the EKT to pensioners, continuous increases in PPC accounts. You've reduced the heating allowance. Whole houses in the heart of Athens, in a European capital - I note - are oil-free. Whole apartments and not one or two apartments. You've increased tolls. With retrospectives, fraud. You flagged the retrospectives, and none of the inmates, from the judges, from the doctors, has been retrospectively taken. Of course, I do not want to forget the draft law on the cohabitation agreement, in which we were vertically opposed, and most of them did vote for it. It was a bill that breaks up the feeling of the family and the institution of marriage between men and women. The mosque in the Botanic, you again voted for it all but Golden Dawn. The mosque may be delaying, but at the same time in Attica there are fifty-eight mosques, where all these illegal immigrants that you brought into our country are consuming. Cannabis bill. You started to say it's pharmaceutical, but we all know that you're going to make us Amsterdam. Now we're going to the anti-nationals you brought in. You seek to bring the separation of State - Church. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will conclude in a minute. You brought the Ambassadors' deal. You gave the Skopje the right to acquire nationality and ethnicity, nationality and ethnicity. You sold Macedonia's name. "You baptize the fish" and the Slavs, Albanians, Bulgarians, Roma, which make up the state of Skopje, do them ethnically on one night of Macedonians. In fact, I will read to you what the Oxford dictionary says about ethnicity. I read: "A nation is a category of people who are recognized among themselves, based on similarities, such as common origin, language, history, society, culture or nation." What does the state of Skopje have? I will conclude - because the time is not enough - in the words of a poet, who would not be termed "Gryssayite", by Odyssey Elystis, who said: "The only name with the term Macedonia, which is acceptable to Skopje, is pseudo-macedonia".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u6	We're on our way to SYRIZA MP, Mr. Nikolao Friend. Mr. Philly, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday there was a major development. It's the London decision for Brexit, no deal. It is something that we are also concerned with, because in the era of globalisation, a butterfly when flying to China is creating currents in Europe. It is a decision in London, which gives rise to even greater uncertainty, even fears of an international economic crisis, but certainly risks of geopolitical instability, because behind all this attempt to cut off and dismantle Europe is the American imperialism and, in particular, the political Trump. So when we talk anti-imperialist, we should not just squabble, but look at the political developments ahead. Greece is in a sensitive geopolitical area. War, refugees, economic crisis, they have been sealing our country for many years. The risk is political stability in the country and stability and peace in the region. In particular for our country, it is important that the people's sacrifices should not be lost, now that we are out of the loan contract. Political stability with four central objectives, which constitute the democratic progressive governance agenda of the new period. Firstly, the final exit from the crisis, the memoranda and austerity, social reconstruction and economic reconstruction. The defeat of neoliberalism in Greece and Europe. Secondly, the reorganisation of the political system by the establishment of the new left-wing democratic and progressive co-existence. Thirdly, dealing with the extreme right-wing threat, nationalism and racism in Greece and in Europe. Fourthly, the radical reform of the state and the institutions with the definitive end of customer perceptions and outdated practices. The cleansing of the carpet of interlocutory and corruption, which took place in the years of governance by New Democracy and PASOK. The vote of confidence, on the basis of the forthcoming ratification of the Prespecies Agreement, marks a new starting point for left-wing governance, a cut then, as was shaped by the January 2015 elections, the July referendum and the September elections, but also the forced one, due to the correlations, cohabitation with a small right-wing party, the ANELs. A co-operation that he had to give, he gave it and now the defendant returns to normality. The new political reality, European and Greek, leads to the formation of two conflicting power programming proposals, a progressive one and a conservative one. Conservatives are increasingly slipping towards the extreme right. A strange mix of neoliberalism, nationalism and racism. That is to say, a proposal to the detriment of the many and democracy and, indeed, a prospect of threats to peace. It is a question of restoring uncertainty, of returning hope that the lives of Europeans and Greek citizens can be changed, that there can be a Europe that can be rebuilt on growth, with work, a social state, democracy and an environmental balance, a bridge of cooperation and peace in the wider region. This hope we see it mobilizes, the truth is, with no prospect at all, European citizens, as happened at the time of the memorials in our country and these days with the yellow vests in France. An alternative democratic perspective serves the left-wing rule in our country, and this perspective creates possibilities for creative political reconversions and compositions in Greece and Europe between progressive left-wing and ecological forces, on a programme of overcoming neoliberalism and nationalist folding. I'm coming to us. The debate on the vote of confidence proves the political processes that are not opaque or the political cooking of the past. Political differentiations take place on the basis of principles and the service of the supreme national interest and political stability. In transparency, in light! I was amazed by the position of President of the Potamio of Mr Theodorakis, who with greater discretion - it is true - than Mr Mitsotakis targeted an honest and democrat MP, for he made the mistake of insisting firmly on his point of view. But during the debate another major issue of political order and morality emerged, Mr Mitsotakis' attack on the new Minister of Defence, Mr Apostolakis. When you identify an officer, because he became Minister, with a coup, what do you send to public opinion and military? That every officer is an aspiring coup d'état? Such political manipulations strengthen democracy? Furthermore, New Democracy's guilty silence on Members' anointing posters, stuck in the cities of Northern Greece. So what do you want, gentlemen of the New Democracy? What do you want to imitate? What do you want to detonate? Developments, like Gdansk, where he was murdered by the para-states and neo-fascists, with the silent tolerance of the federal right-wings, yours there, the mayor for raising a stature in his area? So where are you going with this? By silence, do you think you have no responsibility? Yesterday we also saw the KINAL Parliamentary Group behave in the Chamber as a farce of noisers. Is that left behind by a great historical current, which, with its positive and negative, set the course of post-political democracy? And that's how KINAL will overcome its existential deadlock? Looking to the right, at the time when, throughout Europe, the Social Democrats are relocating themselves to the left? Can there be a Central Left in an alliance with the Right and indeed against the Left? These questions will be answered again by the democratic Greek people. The new beginning of left-wing governance responds to the need to create a new social majority current. This is what the right-wing and their allies fear. After their dreams of "left parenthesis", they now dream of a government collapse, even a few months before the government's term of office is completed. They will be disproved today and tomorrow in the vote on the Prespecies. The government is calling for a vote of confidence and we will give it to it so that the sacrifices of the Greeks are not lost, to complete its work in favour of the many. It calls for a vote of confidence, which will be given to it today, but - most importantly - it will also be given to the elections so that a second four years of progressive governance can meet the citizens' hopes of fair growth and restore the country's position internationally, i.e. healing the wounds that have opened up the memorial to the national body. At the same time, it is a vote of confidence in Europe, that small Greece can once again, within the grid of its alliances and partnerships, build correlations between the extreme right-wing threat and redefinition of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-nine students and students, as well as two teachers attending the Elementary School of Agia Marina Nea Macris. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mrs. Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to Mr Friend and I will reply to him shortly. But let me begin by addressing two staff issues. Yesterday, Mr. Tsipras, swinging the finger on Kyriakos Mitsotakis, told him with the "klossary logic", that he is not entitled to speak about apostasy because of a family heritage. I oppose the well-known fascist logic of family responsibility, to answer the Prime Minister - because Kyriakos was unborn at the time - who have a share of family responsibility, that I am proud of the democratic struggles of my father, from the Occupation to the Colonels' dictatorship. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I hope the same thing Mr. Tsipras can say about his own father. The second point, as a follow-up to the first in the logic of family responsibility, concerns Mr Kammenos's suggestions of terrorism against the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think there is a single Member in this Chamber who is not aware of my time-consuming fight against terrorism, as well as my view of Mr Koufantina's walks in the center of Athens, his ideal conditions of detention in luxury prisons and so on. However, I have never allowed myself, in the endless statements I have made on this matter, to leave even the least implied for the President of the Greek Parliament, even though, as you know, Nikos Voutsis is one of the hardest ideological opponents of my resignation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In democracy there are rules, ladies and gentlemen. The spirit and style of politicians characterizes themselves as well as the parties they serve. Rejoice Mr Kammenos, ladies and gentlemen! Rejoice with the'replaced Minister of Defence', as Mr Tsipras said. Rejoice with your government partner, with whom you had a bright, honest relationship! Rejoice with him, who, to stimulate his ego, lifted two Mirages - I suppose, to show how far the Greek Air Force is crying for his departure - without calculating how many thousands of euros these flights cost in the already low budget of the Ministry of Defence. And I come to the point. The Prime Minister asked for a vote of confidence. He told us it was an act of bravery, of magnificence. You have reached the point where the Hellenic Republic has termed "the act of bravery" the self-evident thing. For it goes without saying that, when there is a two-party coup d'état and one party leaves, even if it lends four of its seven Members, the government must prove that it has the declared one. You will get it for the majority tonight, as it turns out, thanks to six Members who exchanged their vote against political benefits, two to stay in the government, two to find shelter on the hospitable lists of SYRIZA and the others with the well-known support of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. You do not, however, have political or democratic legitimacy, because the Members who will vote for the government have been elected by the people, with exactly the opposite positions. You do not doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that Mrs Papacosta was elected with the New Democracy, when she called you 'a climax of populism'. So, based on democratic sensitivity, Mr Phile, he is not entitled to take the votes of the Neo-Democrats and to vote for the vote of confidence in the opposing party. The same applies to Mr Dannelly, who, of course, ends up in an area where he began, after having passed from different parties, but he is sure that when he was elected with the Potami, he was elected as a Member of the Opposition rather than of the Coupling. And that's the big difference. And, unfortunately, that doesn't change. I would like to point out here - and I am glad that the President of Parliament is present and take note of it, ladies and gentlemen - that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has forty-five Members today. On the basis of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, this is the parliamentary power, which will be reflected in all the committees of the House from now on, which proves the anomaly which will henceforth exist in the functioning of Parliament. And that is something that you cannot change and make our request for elections even more imperative. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a difficult time for the Greek Parliament. The Greek Parliament has had many strange moments, but never until today - at least in the Migration - a government has not been held in power with MPs - a dubble eat. Never until today in the Greek Parliament were individual Members called upon to keep a government in power, which has lost the confidence of the Greek people, which is following a policy that is contrary to the interests of the Greek people, a government which is being smuggled into power, just so that it can have its benefits. In the Republic, however, Paul Bakoyannis said, there are no dead ends. The elections will come quickly and the people will give it their answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much Mrs Bakoyannis. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, Member of the JRC, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. That the shameful - NATO cutting - of the Prespecies Agreement would come, of course, which serves American imperialism - and the government supports it - we knew it. This is why the Tsipras - Kammenos bazaar ended up in the debate on a vote of confidence, which suits both of us: SYRIZA plays it genuinely centre-left and the far-right ANEL shows that it resists anti-popular hard politics, which, however, has "cut back" over the whole four years. You're asking for a vote of confidence. Why? To savagely attack and beat the mass gatherings of teachers, casting tear gas and shine grenades and whoever Haros gets, seriously hurting demonstrators, but also the MP - comrade Yiannis Delis? You did the same with the pensioners, who claimed that poor pensions should not be reduced once again and that the CSCE should not be abolished. But what did the teachers ask for? Not to be unemployed, undetermined and hostage thousands of contractors, when thousands are in the schools. This attack shows that the government has no hesitation in order to impose its policy with authoritarianism and brutal repression, at a time when the problems in schools are many and great, from last century buildings - even here in Piraeus - to the lack of heating in these frozen days. Of course, the municipalities also have their responsibilities, which follow the same anti-population policy, but the government's cutbacks to essential people's needs bring exactly these results. Didn't you also promote major changes in the health sector? What did you do? To keep the insured more dry and to be forced to put his hand in the pocket, if anything is left, to meet his needs. Because in hospitals you have reduced funding by sixty-five million euros. For example, Metaxas Anticancer Hospital has 50% of the staff and many workers over the last two years have not even obtained the permission they deserve. And now you are presenting as a'revolutionary achievement' the family doctor. You are kidding, since of the two hundred and thirty - nine local health units with family doctors, only a hundred nine have been formed. You are announcing the introduction of family doctors, but it is not your fault that they are not a doctor to serve the system! Features, they went to Piraeus to make an appointment with a family doctor next to the area and referred them to an appointment four months later. What are you gonna do? Can you wait? The same terrain the previous ones did. And otherwise, did you put the dilemma "progress or maintenance"? You are talking about a memorial period, you say that we have come out of the crisis and you are falsifying 'development'. So let me describe it to you the development from Piraeus, the first port of the country, this capitalist development: Yes, we have all the elements of the "wonderworker" road, which, if we believe the government, will lead us to social well-being. We have investments, modern equipment, major modern crane bridges, business, shipping clubs, great increase in Group Profit, sectors with intense extroversion. At the same time, however, the deterioration of the state of the working class and of the people in our neighborhoods proves that there are two different worlds in Piraeus: there is Greece of the few, who do not know what they have, namely Greece of capital, who lives by sucking down the sweat and blood of the employees, the self-employed, the poor people's families. On the one hand, the exploiters and, on the other, the victims of the exploitation, proving that there are two Greeks. And that is exactly what you are trying to hide, namely that not everyone benefits from capitalist development, but the few, the pluralism, Mr Tsipras and Mr Tsakalotos. The ‘COSCO’ has dominated the port through the gradual privatisation of all governments, PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA, ANEL. In fact, an ambitious investment project, which concerns a number of sectors of the economy, is unfolding. On this basis, domestic capital, Greek shipowners, commercial capital of Piraeus, tourism and ship repair business adapt their goals and goals. And you're going through the laws they want. Urban, district, municipalities, chambers are intervening in order to address the new controversy and the new demands of the sections of the capital. You are appalled for the country's so-called ‘Geography Upgrade’ and its conversion into a freight and energy transport hub. However, the more acute economic and political competition between the US, China and the European Union, the more complicated the issues you are trying to resolve, serving the interests of the Greek ruling class. You too are a party of capital, and let us shed "black tears" for the suffering of many! Therefore, new major capitalist investments and the profitability of capital exist. But together, the attack on capital is also going to impose cheaper labour force that is one-way to ensure that the pace of capitalist growth is increased after the deep, long-lasting crisis of the Greek economy. So the JRC is voting against the anti-grassroots government and, regardless of any developments of the House and possible escorts to Mr Tsipras, we call on the people themselves to vote against it, so that it does not continue the same barbaric, anti-grass and dangerous policy as a follow-up to the previous governments, to strengthen the popular factor by strengthening the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational programme "The Workshop of Democracy", sixteen students and students and a training meeting from the 41st Municipal School of Piraeus. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed with the Parliamentary spokesman from Potami Mr. George Amyras. Here, Mr Amyras, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen - I have listened to Mr Philly earlier, but I will answer him at the end on a basis, I think, creative - we are being called today on a key question about the parliamentary procedure and the functioning of the civil society: must we give a vote of confidence to the government or not? Let us first consider the reasons why we have arrived at this debate and this need. SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence completed four years of uninterrupted government service these days. In these four years, the Members of the two parties, SYRIZA and ANEL, were literally a fist. Unified and with one voice SYRIZA and ANEL voted for their own memorandum, painful measures, reduction of pensions, increased taxes, abolition of the CSCE, a shrinking of the social state. SYRIZA and ANEL wings had no question of government cohesion when you voted for the creation of the U.S. budget, paving public property for foreigners by 2115. We are talking about the same MPs who described as "excitement" any attempt to demilitarise that had preceeded by other governments and protested against Mercedes and the youths. We did not have an intra-government conflict last summer when the Prespecies Agreement was signed. Again we remember the MPs of these two parties, mainly the ANELs, who, before 2015, broke their garments into the body that would pass Macedonia's name over their body. At that time, it didn't even exist as a matter. Now they are preparing to vote for the Ambassadors' Agreement and to give their vote of confidence to the Government in order to do so. Remember, as I see you, Madam Minister of the ANELs, the epic line - a statement by your Chief, Mr Cammenos, that before God and man will not allow the name 'Macedonia' to be given? Where is God now and where are humans? Let's go down. Nothing prevented the two co-pilots, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos, from continuing their cooperation, as everyone kept their ministerial chairs and their posts, without any problems of worthy or consciousness. So why do we now have the so-called 'political divorce' SYRIZA - ANEL, which is to the greatest extent badly directed and poorly applied? So why are we getting to this make - I'll say divorce? Because quite simply, the knot has arrived at the comb. We are in the final straightforward few months before the elections and now the doctrine that applies to SYRIZA and ANEL is "the saved one". But very late, and very little, I'll tell you. Your arguments have not convinced anyone. The official line we have heard from the Prime Minister, who asks Parliament to give a vote of confidence, is that an honest cooperation with the ANELs has been concluded. Yes, sir. He said the main objectives were to get the country out of the memoranda and address corruption. I'm sorry to say that, but this is another attempt to deceive. We are five months after the end of the Memorandum and the situation in the economy is alarming and worsening. Investments are falling, banks are failing, the public is failing to get out of the market, reforms have frozen - the Commission has hit a risk bell - and the ministers are engaged in their political rescue. The country did not come out of the memorials, but its funding depends on the markets, but, at the moment, they do not - unfortunately, I say - trust Greek bonds. Therefore, Mr Tsipras's claim that his cooperation with Mr Kammenos has been successfully completed, I will say that he is, in essence, a caller. The two of them didn't get the country out of the memoirs. They signed new memorials and put the country in a memorial. You did not deal with the conflict, as you were saying, but you tried to build your own conflict with some stray pastures and you tried - even now - to sing independent principles, but also the core of justice. As for corruption, with which you were supposed to have put it at the first moment, let us not look at the PCP case, nor to the friends of the ministers who have solved and tied up their nicknames, nor to direct assignments to immigration. Let me not recall any of this, which shows that the SYRIZA and ANEL conflict has unfortunately adopted the pathogens of the past. So the government's aims have not been achieved. Tsipras and Kammenos separated themselves as failures, because their work was not accomplished. How honest this cooperation may have been when we hear from Mr. Burned charges for distances, for consideration, for money from Soros and for Danish MPs in the last few days? And all this, when in 2014 the parliament was trying to elect a President of the Republic and was looking for a majority of eighty Members, and then Mr. Tsipras told SKAI TV, "To find the eighty-eight Members, there must be distances". And he continued: "Apostasy" means that some MPs who are in their parties will do differently than their party says." So in order to obtain a vote of confidence, Mr Tsipras accepts - within the introductory period, I - 'apostates', as he has appointed them, as he has given us the characterisation of this word, while Mr Kammenos exhausts his rigour, only in his two ministers, in order to maintain a parliamentary existence and an entity as Head of Parliament's party and not to lose the privileges that this position gives him. Really, is that the new thing in politics? I don't see it at all for news. I see a repetition of bad episodes of a thousands of playful and bad television series. SYRIZA, therefore, is looking for Members of Parliament's debts, according to Mr Kammenos and Mr Tsipras's yesterday partner, Mr Kammenos, imply - not to say that he speaks openly - money. If that's the new one, what can I tell you? Greece has other priorities. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is calling for a vote of confidence in the House. The result seems specified. But trust in the government, whether in good or bad, will not be judged here. Trust in the government is judged in the following fields. It is judged, first of all, in the confidence of the people. The vast majority of Greek citizens believe that the country is not moving in the right direction. They also consider that the situation in the economy is bad, while rejecting the content of the Ambassadors' Agreement. Even almost half the SYRIZA voters do not want this agreement to be voted on. The second area, in which the government does not have and does not take a vote of confidence, is the field of the economy. Instead of investment projection, we have a reduction in investment. Instead of ejecting the economy, as you were telling us, we have a weak recovery. Instead of better days, we have overtaxation, a reduction in new pensions, a reduction in social aid, such as heating allowance or CSR. I have just read the OECD report, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which draws up some indicators in relation to the course of each economy. So it says about the Greek economy that since May 2018 it has been in a downward course. The government, too, does not have the confidence of the markets. The interest rates for Greek bonds remain forbidding. Unfortunately, the stock market is slowing down to historically low, lending banks and large businesses is difficult, liquidity for small and medium-sized enterprises is expensive. Finally, the government does not have the confidence of society, which is the most important of all. Society sees incomprehensible efforts to manipulate and suppress the powerful institutions of the Republic, such as the one in justice. As far as Judges' associations are concerned? They have reached the point that the judges themselves should speak about attempts at institutional misconduct. So the democratic world doesn't know what else to wait until the polls come. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you will probably have the opportunity from tonight to continue and tomorrow to go with a majority, based on a vote of confidence, which is subject to many questions. So I'll tell you you won't get out of here winners, but losers. You don't get out of here reinforced, but within a period of time. You don't go out together, but split. Trust is not won by bazaars and transactions of all kinds for a few months of power. The Greek people will give their final verdict and the only credible vote of confidence, which will, of course, be the result of the elections. Of course the River does not give a vote of confidence. I know tonight you'll get a hundred and fifty one votes to go on. But what votes will they be? It is four with the help of the ANELs, one vote from the New Democracy, one vote from the Potami, one vote from the Central Association or, to be precise, not from these parties, but from Members elected for these parties and now at your side. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear friend, you said before about Stavros Theodorakis and about the way he dealt with the issue of Dannelis. Of course, we neither insinuate nor argue that there has been a transaction. Mr. Danellis is an honest man. However, I would say that what he did did did did did did not contain the greatest honesty in relation to the mandate he had received from the voters of the river. I am sorry that this government will have a vote of confidence. In fact, I am making you a prognosis rather than a prediction. I separate the word. You may find one hundred and fifty votes for the vote of confidence, but you will not find a hundred and fifty votes for the Prespecies's Agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u14	Thank you Mr Amyras, Parliamentary spokesman from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u15	What will the river do? He won't vote? Has he changed his mind?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u16	I made a prognosis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirteen students and students and an educational meeting from the Private Municipal School of Modern Education M. Hourdakis". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And after giving comments to the Chamber, the prognosis and not the prediction from what Mr Amyras said, we should proceed with Mr. Nikos Paraskeviopoulos, MP of SYRIZA from the 1st Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I have already heard Mrs Bakoyannis, who said that today is difficult for the House and I wanted to say that in one respect it is an easy time. It is easy, because Parliament is called upon to give its confidence to a government during its fourth term of office. This means that she can give her trust, knowing indeed, with a secure knowledge of the quality of the work of this government. It is not at the beginning of a four-year period, so the question of confidence would go as a response to a question of promises. So we can now reliably move on to trust in this government. What is really difficult is technical, and it is about being able in a few minutes to speak, especially the Members who have a little time, to sum up this work that has been provided. So, trying to do this, I would like to say that I have the opinion that this government has offered a very important project in four areas - which I will explain in two words - and has faced lies in three of the four areas. The first important work that he offered is the exit from the memorials. This exit, not only has become apparent institutionally - since an agreement has not been signed on analogous characteristics to the previous ones - but also socially, with absolutely tangible works. I would remind you that all indicators have changed their course. Where we have constantly increased unemployment, we have now gone through increasing employment. We went through the resolution of the insurance system, which we thought a few years ago was unhealthy and were leading towards the disaster. We now have paid retroactive wages from special wages. We have the development of a solidarity system with very tangible and valuable benefits and avoid the measure of the reduction of the main pensions. This project, the very important, was dealt with on the other hand with a very clean lie: "Nothing has changed." The very same picture exists in a second important area, which is the Presidencies' Agreement. What about the Prespecies Agreement? A country, which forty countries of the world and 95% of the world's population called it "Macedonia" and which, if this Treaty did not happen, would continue to call it "Macedonia" or "Macedonia", is currently changing name and becomes "North Macedonia". And of course, it doesn't just change name, but it also changed symbols. We have a radical change in our country's treatment from the international framework after this treaty. Our country and within the international climate were treated as a country of people who are insolent and lazy. Today, with respect for its international position and international conditions, it is treated as a country which has also governance, but also a society characterised by labour and honesty. And what's the name of this radical turn? It is called a disaster, as it is now for the first time in our country to have the big changes that another country is making. It is a worldwide unprecedented phenomenon that another country should be forced to change its constitution, to change its name - which would - to change symbols, under the pressure of a neighbour, and that should appear as defeat. This is the second great lie to a second major project. The third important task is of course the fight against corruption. We have been dealing with a phenomenon of economic corruption, which has been evolving for years in a way that has been extremely heavy and very damaging to the country. We are now aware of the manifestations of this scandal, of the seaships, of the scandals of armaments, of the scandals of CEDEFOP and of NOVARTIS. Of course, there is the presumption of innocence, and I am not talking about the responsibilities of certain individuals, but the scandal is a given, on the basis of objective figures. By measuring the statistical services and monitoring all indicators, which are evolving, scandals are demeaning. What's it called against it? 'Scegoria'. You know, I think we can remember a scene that is now part of popular wisdom. Years ago - you will know - a film, an Italian comedy, was widened with Franco Frankie and Chico Ingracia. In a scene of the work they have been drunk on a boat, the rope solves at night, waking up in the morning from the drunkenness and the boat have taken the waves. It then turns around and says to each other: 'Na, Chicho, the port is leaving'. This is the situation with criticism of the change, of the progress we have with the memoranda, of the progress we have at last both in understanding and strengthening the country with the Treaty of Ambassadors and in the area of corruption. It is not just corruption, it is the functioning of justice in general. We are dealing with a time when this government tried, all the scandals that it found in front of it to trust them in justice and free to carry on its work. Instead, what does it sound like? 'Reserve to justice'. And who do they say that? Those who, their senior officials, sue to prosecutors or judges when they see that a court case has a course which does not favour them or call them willingly "political". Who? The ones who are all-meaning judges. So, against this picture of interventions in justice, what is called on the other side? 'Do not interfere in justice'. We're not interfering at all. This is the picture: 'The port is leaving'. And I will say to you at the end: the fourth important work that this government offers in the country - and here we have good cooperation, we have no lies on the other side - is the revision of the Constitution. The revision of the Constitution goes on, without demagogues, with many disagreements, but with substantial debate. It is a process, without phantom-based changes, but with changes, which focus on the functioning of democracy which are important and perhaps the flag is the revision of Article 86 on the criminal liability of the ministers. At this point, I would like to say that this provision of Article 86 also concerns democracy, because it concerns the criminal accountability of the rulers. And an element of the core of democracy is to be accountable to those who exercise authority. So it is very important that this article is changing at the moment. I hope that the debate will proceed and end with fruit. Despite disagreements, cooperation is excellent. On the occasion of this, I would particularly like to thank Mr Tragakis, Vice-President of the Commission, who offers his experience and knowledge on procedural matters and helps significantly in the process. As I say a good reason for an opponent, I would like to wish Giannis Delis, a short-sighted fellow here in Parliament. I hope that he will continue to do his work, with the same decency and strength as he has done so far. Of course, I am also sorry for the fact - in relation to what I said earlier - that at the moment in Thessaloniki, in northern Greece, in Macedonia, there has been a climate of darkness and intimidation of politicians with posters, with threats, etc. What I have to say is that Thessaloniki, northern Greece in general, is as civilised as all of Greece. These are exceptions, they are parentheses which they will not be able to stand. It has - almost - it turns out that there are a few people who move organized and cannot color the culture of northern Greece. On this basis, I am sure that today's Parliament, as well as the Greek society, gives its confidence in the current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u19	Thank you Nicos Paraskevilos, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Mavroudis Voridis, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, I have seen that Mr Vice-President has asked for the floor. If he wants to talk, he'll be very happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u21	It's okay, I'll hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u22	I wish that this uncertainty and courtesy characterized all Parliament's work. Here, Mr. Voridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope the government has realised that it is already a minority government in any way, even if it takes the vote of confidence. Why? For it is based on a group of forty-five Members of Parliament. Incidentally, Mr President, do not let the majority of the committees change with forty-five on the basis of the correlation between the vote of confidence. The Rules of Procedure are clear. Parliament's committees are set up on the basis of the power of the parliamentary groups. And that's how it's going to be with the new data. But even if it counts the three MPs, who are ministers and do not belong to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, we go to 100 forty-eight. What Members will vote on the vote of confidence is their own issue and does not create government support, support in the sense of parliamentary relations. So from today you are a minority government. Let's go see what's important here. Why note: Why do you get to this point? Because, obviously, this whole debate is not brought about by abruptness. I heard the Prime Minister say a little - very kind - who came to ask for the vote of confidence. If he wanted to! Because if she didn't want to, she could not ask. So he's a levent. Two minutes. Firstly, it is well known that if he did not bring it, the motion of censure would come. So, then, the talk has no object. It's a talk mandatory. Secondly, the even bigger party is that it's gone the day before, it's been sitting with partner and friend Panos and they talked about it. I can imagine this conversation, like I see it in front of me. - Alexis, I can't. Something has to be done. Let me go. - Yeah, man, but the government won't fall. - Okay. How many do you have, Alexis? - Danellis told me he'd vote. I have Katerina. - And how many do you miss? - Four. - Take four, Alexis, to have a hundred fifty one. - Yeah, but the Prespes? - Don't give you all four for the Prespes, because they'll be after us all. You got anything else for the Prespes? - Theodorakis told me that two, maybe three will vote. - Oh, good. Give them two back, hold them two for the press. We have it for the Prespes too. That was Sunday's debate, and it became the party of the vote of confidence. And I ask: are you proud of this transaction? Listen to something. We have huge disagreements, Mr. Dritsa. We have deep ideological, political, programmatic, worthy, aesthetic differences.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u24	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u25	That's right. However, I did not hear one of you stand up to support the President of the Greek Parliament in misery suffered by Kammenos. Not even one! I didn't hear a single one condemning someone who used a father's personal drama, who has a difficulty with his son, to make him political. It's something we've never done, that we're your tough opponents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u26	Read the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u27	Let me read them. Invoke them to me, Mr. Karayannides. I haven't heard from anyone. From no one! But you didn't find a reason to say. You didn't find a reason to say! So does this government have to fall? We're talking about the Prespes. But, obviously, we will open this debate more widely when it comes. But does this government have to fall? For a thousand reasons this government must fall. This government must fall because it has transferred all the public property to a fund that is handled with foreigners. They didn't do it three previous Prime Ministers when they were asked. All three were asked. It was also requested by Papandreou, also requested by Papademos, and also requested by Samaras. All three refused and Greek Che Guevara gave it. He's the one who handed over the public property. Greek Che Gevara, the duoulian, the Mediterranean revolutionary handed over the entire public property. The government must fall for extermination taxes, for middle-class smuggling, for the release of dangerous villains by the laws, not only Fridays, but also Contonis and Kalogeros, so as not to "prove" others. All three have had identical arrangements. The government must fall for its tolerance to extreme left-wing groups, such as Ruvikon, for its tolerance to uncontrolled illegal immigration. For its tolerance to the destruction of our islands, due to the lack of management of the migration and refugee phenomenon. For lawlessness in universities and the reinstatement of university asylum. The law on citizenship and the fact that the naturalisations have been launched because of this law. For the sake of justice, constant interventions, organised persecution, the construction of NOVARTIS and all other interventions it has made in justice. For the corruption that starts from the Kalogrica's 'from the outset' to remind you of the attempt to sell Saudi-Arab missiles, by the talks of Ministers with isovites, by the DEPA scandal, from the attempt to give hundreds of millions of millions of dollars to the airport. For the punctual growth that's been consuming us all these years. For the veracity of photographic notices of competitions. So, obviously, this government must fall. But it has to fall, because there'll be signs of contagious moments that will accompany Mr. Tsipras. One is the one with the poor, who is at sea in Matti, at the same time as Mr. Tsipras made the pragmy, the operatte of the meeting, asking if the fire has been dealt with. Mr. Tsipras asked about that. This will remain indelible and characteristic. And the second picture is the one with Tsipras and Zaev, where Zaev talks about Greeks and Macedonians and the Greek Prime Minister is below, stupid and exchanged ties. These will remain as the summary and epitome of the government work. So, because we've heard a lot, I'll talk. The time will come to talk about what the national line was and if the national line ever included the assignment of citizenship, nationality, language. When did the national line include this and when and from whom did you have authorisation to do this assignment? When did this happen? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I shall also speak, of course, about everything that I have heard as arguments on the issue of the Prespecies. One by one is wrong. But we'll talk about it in the next few days. Incidentally, Mr President, everything must be done with the normal procedure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like for a minute your tolerance, Mr President. Thank you very much. I hope that there will not be any abbreviations, discounts and indulgences in this area - which are essential to avoid popular mobilisation or anything else, or to avoid wide-ranging dialogue. Because as you know, the guns are still at the table and we can impose this, i.e. the widest dialogue on the Prespes. In the end, you are used to - and you wish very often - had some other opponents. Some who would treat you with annoyingly, would praise the left fights, bow to the majesty and moral stature of the left. This time is over. On the contrary, there is a line that stands with confidence and is tabling its proposals. And yes, to be straight, of course, and wish and pursue the strategic defeat of the Left, as Kyriakos Mitsotakis said, "We intend to lose, not only for what you have done, but for what you believe." We want to achieve an ideological defeat, undo the ideological hegemony of the Left. This will be the risk of the next elections. And if there is anything positive left of your four-year rule, it is that after the first time on the left, our people will decide 'never left'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u28	Thank you to Mr Maki Voridis, Member of the New Democracy. We are moving forward with the position of Vice-President of the Government, Mr Giannis Drasakis. Here, Mr Vice-President, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, after what we have heard, my speech may be superfluous. We call on you to vote on the government's confidence, so that we do not have this reconversion described by Mr Vorides, so that we do not return to darkness, which condemns not works, but opinions and ideas. I think all this is unnecessary. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The request for a vote of confidence therefore has already exceeded the reasons and reasons for it. It goes beyond the needs of a government arithmetic, as Mr Vorides has tried to analyse here again, since, throughout Europe, we know that there are tolerance governments, there are governments with fewer than a hundred and fifty votes, and on the basis of the respective constitutions and regulations, there can be. The fact that we are calling for the vote of confidence, in the way that the Prime Minister has requested, has precisely a political depth, a political message, which concerns not only the present government, but its prospects. The vote of confidence - I mean, it is not an opportunityal majority, with the aim of simply extending the life of the government for a few months, but it is the beginning of a more general redeployment of the political scene, with the aim of a new progressive majority, a broad co-existence which will organise the next day's plan for Greece. Conservative Anti-Policy understands that, understands, fears, and therefore opposes this prospect with obscene trading, for gambling, for political relays, speaks of politicians, for "carrot governments" and other relevant ones, with which it competes with Golden Dawn. It addresses the most alibi politically - politically - layers of society, trying to cultivate hatred and fanaticalism, because it has no other way to deal with this social and political dynamic, which is shaped in the country. The truth is - to answer these - that the last sixteen Members of Parliament - if I am not mistaken - have changed the parliamentary group. Mostly, they left the river, the Central Association and the ANELs. Where did they go? Those who did not remain independent went to New Democracy and KINAL. So all this defuse of politics, which we heard yesterday from Mr Mitsotakis, turns against his own party, because it is a delusion to believe that the Greek people will believe that politics is a dirty game only on the one hand. That is why what has been said and said is dangerous, not for SYRIZA, but for democracy and the country's prospects. Personally, I have no doubt that if New Democracy does not change its tactics - and I do not see it likely to change - anyone who leaves a party to join the New Democracy will be called 'cooperation'. Anyone who accedes or cooperates with SYRIZA will be called a ‘transaction’. That's what we're going to live with in the next few months and the next few months. This is a huge hypocrisy. And we will live with it, because as I said from the outset, what we are living in is a second phase of reconstructing the country's political scene, with the first phase having taken place in the period 2011-2012. Then, processes within society were captured in the double elections of 2012 with the appearance of too many parties. Today, the new redeployment of the political forces is now taking place in a new context, not in the Memorandum of Understanding, but in the basis of new controversies, new dilemmas and new dividing lines. That is why the outcome this time of the processes can be - and it will be - different. The question now is what political power and with what political project it wants and can defend labour, the social state, the prospect of the new generation, the wider interests of our country, in terms not only of an enclosed country, which fears everyone, even itself, but in terms of a new role of the country in the Balkans, in Europe, more extensively, a role of assets, positive in dealing with problems, peaceful and cooperative. So in the process, what I describe - and already being done - is the ideological consistency of the parties, their identity and their territoriality with society. And since we have been a small party for many years, perhaps some parties, which have no strong links with society, have no clear identity, have no cohesion, perhaps disintegrate or disintegrate and some others may appear. On the other hand, however, at the heart of this cooperation is the fact that SYRIZA emerges in the main pole of the centre-left in the geographical sense of the term, the wider progressive part. It is therefore natural that SYRIZA should become the focus of political cooperation, political alliances with other forces. And perhaps, such developments at least, we are seeking, on the basis of local and regional elections and European elections, but there are no such alliances after the elections, if they have not matured until then. So we are talking about a dynamic, which has been unlocked, to say so, and this is causing upset, if not panic, both in political forces and in economic centres. What I would like to say is that this is not a trick, it is not some magic tricks that some people are doing either in the House or outside it, but it is a dynamic with social causes that corresponds to the needs of society, and that is why it will not be stopped. Ladies and gentlemen, the request for a vote of confidence did not come out of a trick, as has been said, is not due to a sage divorce, as was explained in detail before Mr Vorides. The need to confirm Parliament's confidence in the government came from a very simple fact: that the government that was a special-purpose government was formed after the September elections, with the main aim of getting the country out of the memoranda. This objective has been successfully completed. This is the main cause, which has caused this need. Of course, the previous majority could perhaps continue if the partner, Mr Kammenos, was either changing attitudes or if we were to avoid a hot potato, deal with the remaining problem. But we are here with the decisions that each side has made. The request for a vote of confidence and the relevant parliamentary procedure therefore do not serve any selfish or microparticipatory purpose or constitute a political crisis, but constitute a procedure of normal, normal, predictable by the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament, an act of democratic and national responsibility. And I am surprised - for those who are watching the markets - that all these days the Greek bond interest rate has not only increased - as one would expect, because of the temporary uncertainty - but is stable and may be somewhat reduced. I do not want to make any predictions of the result of the votes. I heard Mr. Amyras making predictions. I was surprised to hear him say what he said. And I want to make a comment here. Those who agree with the Prespecies Agreement and vote for it do not do thanks to the government, but serve their own choice. At least - many of us here on the left - have made this choice since 1992! In May 1993, the position on two and a half terms was formally stated for a complex name. And we are proud that today we can make this choice. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And those who don't have that choice and want to give another vote are respected. But if anyone agrees that the problem needs to be solved, if anyone agrees that the Prespecies Agreement is an acceptable compromise, but does not vote for a stubbornness, I fear that this is suicidal to him. It's not a punishment for the government. It's this I.D. crisis I was saying before. And many parties break up when they don't have any identity. It's everyone's right to do whatever they want. However, I would like to make some comments and conclude with them. The main conclusion, which I would like to make, is that the government will take a vote of confidence and not only that, but it will come politically stronger and more homogeneous - I would say - from this process. Secondly, I believe that the Prespecies Agreement will be ratified, because there is a parliamentary majority that is in favour of the agreement, and I believe that in the end this majority will be expressed. Thirdly, the country's political stability will be confirmed and the prospect and government work will be even more intensive. It will follow a phase after these votes of a strong parliamentary and institutional nature. It will be launched - as the Prime Minister said yesterday - by the Constitutional Review. The relations between the State and Church will be redefined, and a series of important bills, which restore social rights, heal wounds, which the crisis has left, such as increasing the minimum wage, the new framework for protecting the first home, the rental subsidy, etc. At the same time, if there are no negative external factors, the country will be able to come out at the right time, according to the plans of the Ministry of Finance, as the Minister, Mr Chakalotos, has explained. In this way, on the one hand, with social measures and, on the other hand, with the exit of the markets, citizens' confidence in the ability of democracy and policy to respond to social needs and solve problems will also be strengthened, and investors' confidence in the Greek economy's potential and prospects will also be strengthened. I would also like to say at this point in the capacity of the Minister of Economy and Development that the image presented by Mr Mitsotakis for the Greek economy here in Parliament, but unfortunately in some cases also abroad, is not accurate. It's misleading. It is an image which unfairs the sacrifices of the Greek people and the prospects of the economy. And that picture is not accurate, because we have been in a recovery phase. And we don't say it, all the international organizations say it. People see it. Jobs are created, other permanent jobs are not. It's three hundred sixty thousand in the last three years. They open up new businesses. Fourteen thousand seventeen hundred more new businesses have been opened this year, compared with last year. Exports increase at a strong pace. It begins and recovers both retail trade and construction. Of course, he's still at the beginning. So, we have a recovery that is generalized. Yesterday I was informed - because they were not officially published - that private deposit in December was increased. They invaded the banks over 4 billion. And in 2018 it will close with an increase in deposits close to 10 billion. These sizes are not confusing. I have also been informed that in the issue of interest rates, which we do, foreign investors have a consistently growing presence. In a recent publication, they accounted for 85% of the publication. Aren't those numbers saying anything to you in the New Democracy? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economy and Development is ringing.]] I'll need a minute and I'll finish, Mr. President. Don't they testify to a strong recovery of confidence and a maturation of conditions to regain on the markets? And anyway, let me put it another way. If in the next few months, if the country comes to the market in the next few weeks, will you recognize that this catastrophe you are doing is not correct and on the contrary does damage to the country? Because, of course, the legacy of the crisis is fresh. The wounds are deep. Uncertainties and dangers exist for us and for all countries. But to deal with all these problems, we won't do it by destroying from morning to night. We will do so by recognizing what we achieve and using it for the benefit of the people, primarily for the benefit of the weak. I shall therefore return to the prospects. After what I have already said, important bills and important development reforms will follow in the next few weeks and months - not austerity reforms - with a positive social footprint. And as I informed the House in the budget debate, these bills lay the foundations, create the institutional framework for the new model of development, for which too many people are talking in this Chamber. A recovery that is sustainable, fair, knowledge-based. I mention, for example, the draft microcredit law, which is already in consultation, the draft law on strategic investments which will soon come for the Development Bank, for the multiannual planning of public investment, etc. Subsequently, we proceed to the design of the new programming period 2021-2027, of the new NSRF, that is, not only, but also of the major transformations that will shape the new memorandum Greece. In fact, this is about the long, long lines on which the Greek economy and society will move in the next decade and beyond. Ladies and gentlemen, everything I have said - and much more - from the Constitutional Review to the minimum wage, the reintroduction of collective bargaining, the clarification of relations between the State and the Church, the design of the next programming period can act as a field of dialogue and joint action with wider powers. They can function as the adhesive of progressive alliances and partnerships. We therefore call for the vote of confidence in the government and for the work that has so far been done in difficult circumstances and for the work that we still have to carry out, but above all - and I would say - on the prospect of our programme, the prospect of a progressive Greece, in conflict with a logic of redress, which we have heard here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr Giannis Drasakis, Vice-President of the Government and Minister for Economy and Development. Before giving the floor to Mr Evangelos Venizelos, I would like to make a statement from the Prime Minister on 'Governmental change'. "Mr President, we have the honour to beg as you tell the House that by the 5/15-1-2019 Presidential Decree, published in the FEO 5/15-1-2019 (Volume I) the resignations submitted by the Members were accepted. Maria Kollia - Tsarouha from the position of State Secretary of National Defence and Nikolaos Mavraganis of Andreas from the position of Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport and were relieved of their duties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u31	I would ask that Mr Evangelos Venizelos, MEP I of Thessaloniki, come to Stepma for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, the greatest insult of the Constitution is its circumvention, the virtual description of its type and the trivialisation of its substance. In this way, the Constitution becomes a paper without regulation, but also without a worthwhile content. The phenomena we are experiencing are the phenomena of extreme institutional decline, it is a stage after the institutional aberration we have experienced, particularly in the field of justice, with the systematic effort of the government to work on justice and turn it into a weapon for political intervention, with the vast majority of honest judicial and public prosecutors retreat in the name of the rule of law and their conscience. These phenomena of institutional decline result in the formation of an artificial parliamentary majority, which is a majority - apologise for the expression - of political'rectals'. The 1960s pale in front of what is happening in the year 2019. They are disrespectful of the parliamentary system of government by those who regard it as a synonym to political hunger. And it is historically and democratically arbitrary yesterday's attempt to compare what he does and organises, first and foremost, with the formation of the government of national unity and a broad consensus in November 2011 under Luke Papademos. This government, of which I have been a representative of the parliamentary majority of PASOK Vice-President and Minister of Finance, is the government that has achieved great intervention in debt, on which the Government of Minister Tsakalotou has been building up in recent years, which is taking unreasonably, all the interventions he makes in order to facilitate the sustainability of the debt, of course, licking, where he spanked, because he retrospectively adopts our strategy and accepts that everything they said from 2010 onwards, but mostly from 2015 until the signature of the third memorandum, was dangerous words of air, they were insults of national interest, words and things that have unfortunately harmed the national economy. Mr. Tsipras and the followers now appear to be fans of the free mandate of the MPs, who, like bees, can be thrown from a party flower into a party flower. And they say that, who morally imposed the resignations of Mr Gabriel Sakellaridis and Mrs Catrivanos from their parliamentary seats, because they belonged to the party, but they do not belong to the party, the Members' seats, who support, without a programming foundation and without a moral basis, the artificial majority that Mr Tsipras is trying to establish. And who do that? Who's making this composition? Those who denounced, in the most appalling way, the MPs who voted for the election of the President of the Republic in December 2014 and set up the top ridiculousness of the Haikalis case. Those who welcomed, with great pleasure, the MPs, who were deleted from the PASOK and later the New Democracy, because their sensitive people's conscience did not allow them to vote for the first and second memorandum, to save the country from the threat of bankruptcy, but enthusiastically voted for the third memorandum, which was useless and imposed by the irresponsible policy of the Tsipras - Kammenos Government, leaving the country for four years in a third memorandum, from which it has, of course, never come out, because at this time, the country is caught in the effects of the tragic policy of the overcoming, which is a colossal trap of poverty and steadfast bankruptcy. But tell me, the government wants to appear as a government of a hundred and fifty-one, the absolute majority, without having a majority vote on the ratification of the Treaty of Ambassadors, which is its main programming objective. Is it possible to vote in favour of the government, Members who disagree with the basic mission, which the government is supposed to have and for whose sake it calls for a vote of confidence? This is the circumvention of the Constitution. Politically, of course, anyone who votes in favour of the government also votes in favour of the agreement. Mr Kammenos, as I have said since then, has kept Mr Kotzia and Mr Tsipras' pen in his hand for signing this treaty. But whoever votes in favour of the agreement or facilitates with his abstention the agreement supports the government. Constitutionally, however, it is incomprehensible for the government to claim that it has an absolute majority in the House, while collecting votes that disagree with its fundamental and urgent planning targets. This is the circumvention and imperfection of the Constitution. What can I say about ANELs, which is the folding party, which maintains by circumventing Parliament's Rules of Procedure according to the party rules? It deletes its Members who are Ministers, because they vote in favour of the government, but it does not delete its Members who vote in favour of the government if they are useful to maintain the status of Chief Party. Another circumvention of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. In order not to talk about extortion of government partners, divisions and unproblem-free arrangements, namely the absolute dispersion of parliamentary and democratic order. But who is the denominator of this heterogeneous conciliator? The antimony front? This was supposed to be the common denominator Tsipras - Kammenos in 2015. That's how the country went antimony in the memorial and became the delivery boy of the Memorandum. We're supposed to be out of the memos, we've been through another time. That's the main account. How, then, is it possible now to say that I have no concerns worthy, moral, conscious, why should I have an anti - memorial front? The government is self-evident in this claim. Let's go to another claim. A common denominator is the prevention of the disastrous right. Right-wing victory must be created against the right-wing front. But, since 2015, SYRIZA has been running along with the most extreme and ruthless versions of the Right, the adjacent states, which are now just expanding somewhat towards the most graphic. So what anti-right front? Here is a cynical cooperation of the so-called Left with the absolute expression of the most traditional and deep version of the Right, to be precise on the far right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u33	While Samaras was progressive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u34	Samaras in front of you is the House of Lords. You will provide examinations for the House of Commons in your country. Or is the common denominator the new wide-ranging centre of the intra-government apostates of the ANELs and Ms Papakostas, Mr Papagelopoulos and Mr Antonarou?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u35	You've lost the ball.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u36	Don't interrupt, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u37	A common denominator is the raw cynicism of the prefecture of power, at least for a little longer, but the fear before the defeat that ruptures accomplices. Every day it passes it constitutes additional damage to the national economy and to the national interest. However, the greatest harm, both national and institutional, caused by Mr Tsipras, with Mr Kammenos's full partnership, is the artificial dilemma they have built by making the foreign political tool of undermining the national unity and democratic parliamentary order. The denomination is a very important matter for foreign policy, but it is not the primary issue. Primary issues are the issues of national security, integrity and sovereignty, namely Greek-Turkish and Cypriot. They claim that the support for this agreement of the Ambassadors and its ratification is the major issue of the place in which all other criteria must be renegotiated and so the SYRIZA - ANEL Government and others must be supported in its most declining version. Have they built an incredible dilemma: Ambassadors and Government Tsipras or accelerating political developments, which will expose the country internationally because of its failure to ratify this agreement? That's what they say. The most sophisticated followers of the circumvention of the Constitution and of the parliamentary order invoke a version of the national interest. Does the Russian Government's direct and public attitude not surprise you in relation to the Treaty of Ambassadors?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u38	Russia's intervention is in favour of the name Macedonia. Tell the Thessalonians that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u39	Calm down and listen. Learn to listen to both you and the Prime Minister. Obviously, it is incomprehensible and unacceptable to intervene in the internals of Greece, but also within our neighbouring country, this intervention by the Russian Government, which invokes its status as a permanent member of the Security Council. But what does this intervention mean, not just for scaffolding, but also for Cyprus? That many had lived for decades in an illusion of international correlations, even for economic correlations. They thought they would find lending in Russia, thought they would form relationships between Russia and all European states in favour of right-wing and neo-ethnicism. What does this open intervention show us? That there is a huge western, Euro-Atlantic interest in Macedonia's prospects, their integration into NATO and their normal relationship with the European Union with a view to accession. This means that the Greek positions in the momentum were and are powerful and we could have shaped, if there was a national unity and a responsible government, the perfect agreement not only in relation to the complex name, but also in relation to the language and citizenship and in relation to the most problematic of all, which is the identifiable provision of Article 7 of the Agreement. This is evidence of developments. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] This is, I think, the only approach that allows us after the elections and with another parliamentary relationship to ensure once again true national unity, particularly in the area of the country's foreign and security and defence policy. So what is urgent is to change the connections and restore the democratic order. This government's persistence in power wastes unrecognised valuable national time, harms the country, drugizes the next period, works negatively for our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u40	Thank you Mr. Evangelos Venizelos, MEP I of Thessaloniki. For eight minutes, Mr Marina Chrysovelonis, State Secretary for the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, society, at least a vast majority, is closely following the latest developments. This is because almost ten years have passed since the harsh adventure of the crisis began and each one and every one has been tired of the amazement of many of those and those who act in a relative way on the political front. The citizens are now looking for the essence of political things and efficiency. In the rest, they devote their time and strength to making it with their lives, their own, and their children. Over the last four years, with very great sacrifices of all the citizens of the country, but also, in my assessment, the good performance of the present government has been established in stability in society. To a fairly satisfactory extent, life has now entered a normality. I do not claim under any circumstances that all the consequences and consequences of the crisis have been restored. But no one can doubt that there is a sense of security for the country's economy and living conditions in society again. That is why our Government is the first to survive in the years of the crisis, and I believe that it has clearly good chance of completing its mandate, beyond that this is its constitutional right. However, everything I have said does not mean that the last few days have not raised an important issue which, in my opinion, is also the problem of the period that will begin just after the government's vote of confidence was completed this evening. The question each citizen will be asked to answer is this: is our Greece going to continue on its way to full recovery from the ten-year crisis and, as it has done since August 2018, with the exit from the suffocating surveillance going on real development roads for all in the next few years? Or will it go back to Greece itself and further deeper crisis? The even greater issue, however, which produces the risk is the obvious question: will we continue our way with a policy that respects society, which respects the role of the state, which respects individual rights, which shows solidarity with those citizens and those who most need it? In short, let me follow the phrase'retirement' of democracy in order to achieve our objectives, or is it preferable to give the opportunity to extreme right-wing, and even corporate-style policies to prevail? This to me is the crucial stake that has emerged since the days that have passed. This is the dilemma on which the politicians of all political areas and the citizens of Greece will be called and not just. Almost across Europe and the European Union is the question. Development for all with democracy or development for the owners of large companies and their bureaucracy with extreme right-wing politics to keep the complaining citizen "disciplined" and "fair"? The political parties and each and every one of us must take a stand on this question, decide who we are going to go and who we are going to leave. The issue of the name of our neighbour has always been in the first category of issues for the Greek Independent Party from which I come. However, the reason for the creation of the Greek Independent Party was the restoration of democracy and national sovereignty in the country by the unstable, no democratic political situation that was established, due to the imposition of the memoranda by our lenders. Furthermore, another reason was our opposition to accepting, let alone our total opposition, to supporting this kind of policy against citizens from the PASOK and the New Democracy parties who had the responsibility for the governance that led us to the crisis in the form of two-partyism before it, and then in the form of the cooperative to exercise power under the Memorandums. Finally, the third fundamental reason was the formation of a democratic front to tackle the impact of the crisis involving citizens from all the parties of the constitutional arch and similar partnerships with party spaces that would have believed in the same need. At a great cost to the Greek Independent Party and many mistakes, the above were made. They're done, but they're not done. In my view, we managed with SYRIZA to achieve the first part of our goals, to move from a very difficult period of foreign policy implementation to our beliefs, but to achieve the conditions I described to you the country's exit from the memorial period in August 2018. Since then, the period we have been hoping for and for which we have fought and for which we have now moved towards restoring economic inequalities for low-paid and micro-retired people, providing job opportunities, bringing justice to corruption, restoring injustices, strengthening the social state, economic development and reinstatement of investment, restoring confidence, domestic and international, in our country, to highlight Greece's most stable factor of peace, coexistence, cooperation and alliance in the wider Mediterranean region, south-eastern Europe, the Balkans and the utilization of our rich production sources has begun. We cannot now distance ourselves from the reasons we have been. We cannot now give up our objectives. The cost we may have known from the outset and it is our responsibility not to be afraid and to not retreat. We therefore have a responsibility to reach the end of the route. Then we will report to the Greek citizens and they will decide whether or not to continue. I have said publicly in my written statement since 8 January that the MPs, the ministers and the Undersecretaries and, more generally, those who manage a government on the basis of programme agreements are not objects, are not suitcases to withdraw or remove such things as - as. I would add that participation in a government is neither the participation of a group of young fans in a football match, where, when they do not agree with the course of the race, they leave a team with a slogan, nor a team of partners on the board of an anonymous company where, when they find that their individual profits retreat, they sell their shares and leave, to find a more profitable option. It is an institutional matter and we must deal with it by the end and by the difficult and easy, with the same responsibility, to the extent that the Constitution allows it. The country with the sacrifices of the Greek people already has three and a half years of stability. She has a guaranteed exit route from the past that tortured her and for the first time opens a prospect after August 2018. We must therefore, with serious, institutional steps, rationalisation and without unnecessary noise, which disturbs the conditions of normality in society, which does not help to protect citizens from new economic and other sufferings, let the critical procedures for the issue of the nomenclature of our neighbouring country evolve, to read and study the final texts relating to them, and then to take calmly each and every one of our decisions, in view of the interests of the country and of the citizens. I am deeply convinced that this is the right thing and I will personally do it. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. I would remind you that in the vote in the summer of 2015, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks changed their lines and voted for a memorandum because that was what contributed the place and the citizens. In August 2018, they proved to have done well. Therefore, at top moments when we speak with fanaticism or dogmatism about red lines, we do not form a safe way of political placement. I believe that the good understanding and deep study of all data, both domestic and international, in relation to our homeland is the only elements that should be the criteria that will lead us to beneficial solutions. So my clear and unsolved position is that the present government must complete its work by the end of its term of office and it clearly deserves a vote of confidence to complete this important task. I conclude by saying that we should all make our decisions and make our choices, criticise, criticise, but always respectful of democracy. And if we even made such mistakes at critical times in the past, it does not mean under any circumstances that we must repeat them. Our different position cannot allow us to water down the far right mill, let alone fascism, discord, personal attacks and insults. To agree that we can disagree with courtesy, but without vacuating ourselves, society and the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr Marina Chrysoveloni. Before giving the floor to Mr Karayannides, I would like to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-nine students and students and three educational sessions from the 42nd High School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Christos Karayannides, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. I certainly can't reach Mr. Voridis' artistic displacement or his directorial custody. However, I have to say that he says it ax, and it's a development, because he's already done it. In 2015 something splendid and particularly soluble happened for the country's political scenery. SYRIZA's defective ideas have been won to your great disappointment and this has broken a forty-one-year-old series where the New Democracy and the PASOK were changing. In September 2015 he followed something worse, SYRIZA won the elections by putting the August's agreement to the Greek citizens' crisis and won the elections again. To your great regret again, this was not the parentheses you sought both inside and outside the country. In fact, you have tried to implement it in every way and correctly and wrongly. This has brought about the four years that passed certain things in the country and many of what we had foretold before the January 2015 elections. But what mainly stopped was the downhill, the disaster spiral followed in the previous years of the memoranda. It is a given that having made a compromise in August 2015 we would have moved for three years as long as this memorandum, as far as it was implemented, in the context of this implementation. Despite your destructive scenarios, neither did the government fall nor has this programme been unfulfilled. It was also implemented within this framework that we were moving we have the right from August of last year to October that elections will take place and issues relating to the Greek society and the Greek economy and the Greek foreign policy and many other issues. It is this effort to transform Greece by making small steps of change. Let me just remind you that there have been over the three years of the memorandum and issues that we have fought and negotiated with the institutions and that all this has been accomplished: the abolition of the five-year-old, the health coverage of the uninsured, which have led them to the full deadlock, the important reforms that have been made with the TEMPUS, the change of 'CLITHEN' to local self-government, our attempt to make a public and efficient and democratic and to lack every shadow 'in the middle' or any other 'oil' in previous years, the return to the popular layers of the social dividend, the reduction of insurance contributions to free professionals and farmers, the non-cutting of pensions after a tough negotiation, the nationality of which Mr Boridis is an unfortunate option - to children of the second generation of migrants, the cohabitation pact, gender identity. We say, then, that we did things that have left hand. We say that we did things that we could do outside the memorial, but we did it within the strict framework of the memorandum. What's next? The abolition of the minimum wage. The increase in wages. Really, aren't you going to vote for these things? Will you make your heart rock again and support them? The non-cutting of tax for employees and pensioners, the new rules in insurance funds, the rental subsidy, housing loan, the new framework for the protection of first residence. I do not want to say much, but it has been said many times in the last few hours and yesterday and today. However, these were issues which we have chosen to implement and which we have implemented, as is the issue of the Presidencies' Agreement to reach this most important issue. Before I get to that, however, I should like to say something about the Members. There's been a lot of talk about perpetrators. The Democratic Assent has in its ranks a Member who started in New Democracy, went to the party of Dora Bakoyannis, switched to the Democratic Left, went to the river and ended up in you. You see that guy in the eyes and you tell him he's a political gyro? New Democracy has a MP in its ranks in PASOK, went to DIMAR and ended up in New Democracy. Is he a politician, too? Mr. Theodorakis himself judged Mr. Bargiotas with serious accusations when he joined the Democratic Partnership and after a while he claimed the leadership of this movement. Is he a political gyro? The choice of people to make choices or not, the choice of people to make choices within Parliament, which they like or do not like, will be judged today and we will forget what has happened in the past? How many MPs does the Democratic Integration have from other parties? How many MPs does New Democracy have from other parties? They traded in a way? Have they received any benefits? To finish with the two people who are primarily calling people who make different choices from their parties, do we remember where Mr. Voridis and Mr. Georgiadis were before they ended up in New Democracy? When Mr Georgiadis said "see a doctor" to me "you say I'll leave LAOS" and then a week later he went to New Democracy and became Minister, did he get some consideration and did that? To keep criticism low on people who make different choices from their parties, without always agreeing to this option. And I'm coming to the Macedonian. Since yesterday in my town, as for many other MPs, this poster I am showing you has been stuck. Really, with this poster we're gonna scare? Are you going to blackmail us with this poster and we're not going to vote for the Prespecies Agreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u44	One more thing to blame in public, Mr. Comrade, and another one...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u45	Well, listen up. I didn't interrupt anyone, you'll listen to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u46	Please, just be quiet in the Chamber. Carry on, Mr. Karayannides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u47	So this picture was stuck in my town yesterday and members and executives of the New Democracy on facebook have it posted and under it there are comments "We'll meet today at 18.00" the time in Drama Square and we'll go to his home to do hell". That's what you've done. So let me tell you something to put it in your mind once and for all. My grandparents and grandmothers came from Ponto. I'm very proud of them. I am very proud that in September '41 the JRC’ partners took the first resistance act in Greece. I'm very proud that NAM saved the world from hunger. I am very proud that the ELAS has thrown the Grgopotamos bridge and created great problems in the Nazi army. I'm very proud to vote for the Embassy Agreement. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Cryazides, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u50	Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u51	No personal issues have been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u52	Explain what the staff are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u53	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u54	Explain what was said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u55	Explain what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u56	I won't sit down if I don't explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u57	No, no. You don't have the floor, you won't explain anything. Please, sit down. Mr Scandalides has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u58	It's a shame to say that New Democracy officials...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u59	When the time comes, you'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u60	Aren't you going to let me answer? Explain?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u61	You don't have the floor, there's no way I can give it to you. You won't explain anything. Mr. Scandalidis, please start your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u62	He can't say about New Democracy officials and...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u63	When it's time to be a Member of Parliament from your resignation, you will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u64	He doesn't say...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u65	He's posted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Scandalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u67	Take her to see her. I'm filing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u68	Quiet, to get Mr. Scandalidis started.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u69	He's slandering an entire...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u70	Yeah, yeah. Fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, it is not a matter of escaping.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Cryazides, calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u73	What should I calm down?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u74	Okay, good. Mr. Scandalidis, please start.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, in the climate of days and in the short time that I have, I would like to ask three key questions concerning democracy, the country's course and the progressive movement. Have you ever wondered, ladies and gentlemen, what we've been living in the last few days, where our democracy is going? I don't like the word apostasy, etc. I don't talk about it and I don't like to say it. However, given that our political life has evolved into an incredible bazaar, that the MPs are leaving their parties and changing attitudes to crucial issues concerning the future of the country, that parties are dissolving, that policy is being pursued, that no one can know what is sincere and true and what is hidden behind behind the scenes and directed ruptures, the people who have for many years been extremely suspicious of politics and the party system are increasingly extinguished to reject it. The citizens in their overwhelming majority believe nothing they hear and see. The spectacle we display with so much tension, so many personal insults and controversies, so unthinkable discernments, does not have 20% of the people. The place is after many years, unfortunately, a problem of democracy and the gentleman, if not exclusively responsible for it, is the practice of power, the way the country has been governed lately. The practice of manipulating institutions, the logic of occupation, state ownership, the coexistence of new and old financial establishments, the abolition of the independence of constitutionally guaranteed powers is a very bad message for our democracy. Top example is how we handle the last few days. I think it is the intention of the Prime Minister and of the lawful and constitutionally legitimate. But it could be a little more brave, because when you raise a matter of confidence in a government that has virtually lost one of the two partners who have connected it to the people's mandate, it means that you are building a new government and bringing it to the House to ask for a vote of confidence or elections. I see nothing about a new government. I am not talking about'retails', I am not concerned with these issues. But it is not a new government and the Prime Minister is not a constitutional state, when today, after this evolution, he did not form his government, which shows that he can hide a debate of the type I will put, who I will not put, that the other one should not be saddened and so on. We are at a very critical stage to be the criteria for our political action at this level. So I think we're inexorable. The second question is, as we organised our policy and our relations, where the country is driving. The country goes to elections in the blind, without the real problems being put on the table and, in particular, the dimensions that take this gray, obscene and wet ages. No substantial answer was received from the Prime Minister on the key questions: why did the country not come to the market? Why do surpluses not come out of growth, but from wild taxation? Why is there no possibility, beyond the opportunistic choices, of substantially renegotiating the negative aspects of the agreements and commitments signed by his Government? For all this, it is not just the impasse policy of the government, the lack of a coherent plan, the policy of benefits as charity. That's not all. It is also the division, the internal division that weakens the country's position. They are the selective affinities or the new friendships that allow foreigners to play us only in their interest. It is the inability to formulate a coherent national reason, a agreed strategy as a country, to provide joint answers to critical structural problems that keep us stricken for so many years. Far from me, the abolition of the dividing lines that separate the forces of progress with the maintenance forces. But I do not understand why the change in the state, the long-term strategy for education, the involvement of all the transnational forces in the negotiation with our partners is not possible, it was not possible and it was never chased. The most important and recent example is the Skopje agreement. He said before, Mr Venizelos quite rightly how he could have been different and covered all three gaps in the agreement. And if this were to happen through a process of national consultation, through a process of intergroup consultation, through a course, with a step forward in shaping the national relationship that is negotiating the interests of the country, we would not have arrived here today, we would have an agreement that the whole House would have voted on all its ten fingers. That's not what happened. We have chosen the other way that keeps us in charge - I repeat - all these years. And after all this, what about the next day? The practical result is obvious. The prospective Prime Minister will get a gift from this House's vote, an agreement with Skopje, so that he doesn't find it on his way and the outgoing Prime Minister will win a few months that he needs to improve the size of defeat. Meanwhile, free from his far-right partner, the centre-left profile will be displayed. And here comes the question of what is progressive and what is conservative. Is the inexpensive submission to the roots of the conservative European leadership progressive, the opportune and blind ruptures that lead the country to adventures? Is there a progressive rejection of the credit line at a time of globally negative international and European developments? Is the unequal and unfair distribution of wealth and wild taxation progressive? Is the manipulation of institutions progressive, the abolition of the state, the alleged conflict with established interests? Is the endless scandalology progressive, the conscious persecution of political opponents, the total perception that turns individual into collective responsibility? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] It's none of this progressive. Progressive would be common national objectives, progressive would be a government that could respond to the major problems of a wide-ranging parliamentary and popular representation. It would be progressing if this country could move from yesterday to tomorrow. Unfortunately, all of us are committed to yesterday, looking yesterday and crashing for yesterday. The debate is always about who is right and who is wrong, not about what needs to be done and how it should be done and how all the Greeks can support it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So the risk - and I conclude, Mr President - of the elections is one: on the one hand it is a bipartite bipartite diaphragm that leads the country to the deadlocks, which just wants a simple rotation of power, and on the other hand it is a new unity of Hellenism, which can develop a new path. As Mr. Mitsotakis says, we deserve better and he's right. As Alexis Tsipras says, fair growth we need and he's right. Neither has the history shown that it can be done without the presence, the leading role of the progressive democratic party, which, in persuasiveness of all those who have been living these days, will pursue this only goal and path that it has, the political overthrow and the progressive rule, in order to reconstruct Greek dignity and Greece proudly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Christos Pappas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u77	As in June, before the signing of the agreement, we now say that it is absolutely necessary and nationally advantageous that this government should fall and that this government should fall, not only because of its anti-national and anti-grassroots policies, but also because of moral grounds. None of you should - and I am addressing you, the Members of the government-majority majority - agree to govern with the marginal majority of fifty-one votes. You left-wing and supposed democrats should be looking for a large majority. Of course, it would be someone, like the speaker, who is very demanding on the left to wait for you to understand the morality of the matter. The famous - in introductory - 'ethical advantage of the Left' has ever been? And if it were, it was forgotten in the pocket of the vine you took off, when you put the costumes and ties to go to the naval fora and the president "the murderers of the people". One would expect you to really want to have the will of the people with you and not this sad stirring of apostates from other parties. "Government – Frankenstein" was the Secretary General of our Movement Nikolaos Michaloliakos. I wonder why you're shaking the people. Why don't you want the people with you? The 151 majority gives you the power to continue to rule. It is, however, a marginal majority - I repeat, a marginal one - and a limit is a extreme one. You are the extremists and your policies are extreme anti-grass and extreme anti-nationals. And for that, of course, fear the people, fear the elections. You ask for a vote of confidence in Parliament, while going to elections, you would ask for a vote of confidence in the people. You don't. You don't because you know very well that the people don't trust you anymore. The people proved it. He proved it, when he filled Greece for a year, the squares with protesters against your policy, with protesters against the sale of Macedonia. The people sent you their will and their decision with sixty and more rallyings all over Greece. It was shown and demonstrated by Greek youth with hundreds of occupations in all schools, for the first time with a national demand in more than five hundred schools throughout the country. And you 'democrats' - in introductory words - what have you done? Not only did you ignore the Greek people, not only do you continue to ignore the Greek people, but you also hit them with the MATs, you beat old and children, you drowned them with chemicals, you smuggled and slandered the Greek patriots. So how do you go to elections in these circumstances? So, there, you gamble in your cabinets as a government with an extreme marginal majority, a parliament and not a people, as a sad triumph to modern tragedy, in the Greek drama of ethnicly dissolving post-multiple. It is a sad triumph that you want to continue to govern by ratifying the treasonal agreement of the Ambassadors, to continue your real monumental policies, liberal policies - not to hide - under a system of effective surveillance, a surveillance of the wholehearted. It has appeared in the last few days that the foreign factor has been involved in the political activities of the country. Surveillance that exists for you, 'yes' to all' rulers, but also for the sake of your component, New Democracy. It was demonstrated by the recent visit of Chancellor of Germany to Greece. And we come to the foolishness of the last few days which many have said here that they have no precedent. Wrong. They have a precedent and, unfortunately, they strongly remind the political things of the country at the time of the 1965 apostasy. The absolute responsibility for this ridiculousness of these days lies with the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister, the wrong man at the wrong time. The wrong man for the interests of the Greek people and the Greek nation, but obviously the right man and the right time for the republic. Mr. Tsipras said in his speech yesterday: “I fully respect you... - referring to Skopje - 'the views of MPs from other parties, as well as of citizens'. The Prime Minister's lying. No, Mr. Tsipras. As a consistent left, you do not respect the will of the Greek people, because, if you respect it, you would ask for his opinion by referendum or elections. On the other hand, you remain in your position, in order to rule with a well-founded government majority, with windshields and devils, as the people say, with apostate MPs, with political anodories of no political morality. And I was very impressed by the Prime Minister who referred to his protagonists in national interest, in a national historical need, in patriotic responsibility, all of what is in complete contrast with his ideological achievements, but also with the decisions of your Party's conferences. Is that the moral advantage of the Left, that is, your political chameleonism? Is that it? But I should not be surprised by the left-wing government attitude. So far a great deal of history has been said and I shall also dare to make a brief historical regression and say that in the end Mr Tsipras should not be accused of being inconsistent. On the contrary, he is consistent, he is absolutely consistent with his ideology. What he does today, that is exactly what the idol of the Middle War era did - and for many of you idols and now - Joseph Stalin, who, although he had signed a peace, non-attack and friendship agreement with his ideological opponent, Nazi Germany, in August 1939, but at the time of the crisis, in June 1941, with the German attack and the war operations, remembered the country, remembered the nation, remembered the patriotic duty and the patriotic war. Release the priests from the concentration camps. This is the real left. That was always the Left. You guys are the same. I shall close the part of the historical regression and I shall dare say this in the light of the left: in April 1936, following the Prime Minister's programme statements, the parliament gave a vote of confidence to the Government of Ioannis Metaxas with two hundred and a half votes in favour, with sixteen and four abstentions. To tell the historical reality, the JRC and George Papandreou voted then. Today, eighty-two years later, the SYRIZA Government wants to rule with a hundred and fifty-one votes, and then with these hundred and fifty-one to hand over the sacred name of our Macedonia, to hand over Macedonia to the naval interests with this fictitious majority. So, you're supposed to be the dictator, and you're supposed to be the neo-bolsheviks, you're the democrats. And I come to this point - in order not to blame your component - to demonstrate both hypocrisy and old-fashioned communism, the lie of the liberal party and the so-called patriots. In a recent interview with the President of New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in order to comment on the rapid confession - and perhaps unexpected - developments, he said two important things and the Greek people should have these things in mind. He reaffirmed his earlier commitment, a statement he had made in an interview with the German newspaper "SUDDUTSCHE ZEITUNG", where he confessed to Macedonia's betrayal. Mitsotakis said: "I will respect the Prespecies Agreement." He stated this to Mitsotakis, apparently wanting to give his message to the foreign player, that he will implement the Prespecies Agreement when it is ratified by the Greek Parliament. The journalist, Mr. Hadjikolaou, pressed him with his questions and, behold, what Mitsotakis said: "It is my duty..." - Mitsotakis' words - "to be realistic and honest. If the agreement is ratified in Parliament and, at the same time, Macedonia's accession to NATO, it will have been done. But they will not have entered the European Union. I will never say "welcome the Macedonian Prime Minister". Accession to the European Union will depend on good neighbourly relations.' So, good neighbourliness, even if Zaev proves to be a good friend for Mr Mitsotakis, welcome to the European Union and to the "North Macedonia". That's exactly what Mr. Mitsotakis said. And the real view of the Skopje position has been confessed by your own parliamentary representative, Mr. Dendias, in his radio interview with "9.84", where he spoke of "North Macedonia" and of accepting the complex name. Here are the documentaries of the betrayal of the New Democracy. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So it is characteristic that in the New Democracy there has been a fish silence for this statement of the Treasury and they say that, if the government wants to hold elections, the New Democracy will show its position after the elections. That's a good place for a big party looking forward to becoming a government! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I ask for a minute more. Thank you. So Mitsotakis and the New Democracy are common secret that they are consenting to the sale of our Macedonia. So, at this point, I have a duty, since we are voting against the government, to denounce New Democracy, to denounce Mr Mitsotakis, the forest of the Bildeberg Club, and to say that you are not a realist - because all of these things are allegedly saying that you are not a realism - and you are not a right-wing, not a guardian - at least as far as the voters of the Bildeberg Club are concerned - of the national ideals and of the triple-fashioned 'father, religion, family,' of the triple-flying MPs and the 'Gruises' of the old-fashioned New Democracy. To know all those who blame us that the Golden Dawn is only with the Greeks, the Golden Dawn is only with the Greek homeland and is the only political force that really opposes the betrayal of the Prespecies Agreement. I conclude, Mr President, by reminding Mr Mitsotakis' sister, Dora Bakoyannis, who last year had said: 'It is a crime for the whole world to tell Skopje Macedonia and for us to call them fufutus'. Not even a single vote, then, Greek patriots in patriots, political crooks and liars of the New Democracy! They're just as accomplices to SYRIZA. They are equally accomplices to Macedonia's business outlet. Golden Dawn is the only political body that, through its timeless slogan, protects Macedonia, is made up of the Greek people and says: "No compromise for our Macedonia". We are voting against the government and we say that this week - which will close this evening - theatre played in this Chamber, it is, unfortunately, coming to our home country - the following conclusion: while the Skopje are 'Macedonians', the other so much the government is Greek. Elections now, do not cross treason. No vote of confidence in left-wing deceased, hypocritical and nationalist. High flags, high mind, general upsurge. This government may not fall by votes of MPs, but will be drowned by the movement of popular indignation, the general uprising, the resistance of the Greek people to streets, squares, all over the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Mitafidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say something out of time, because the day has it, as I was told today that I had my "practical" today, along with the other fellow Members of SYRIZA, to have filled the city of Thessaloniki with my master. I want to say to this ego of the ethnic-scan pigs, that I'm going to put a copy of this poster next to my sentence from the junta courthouse in life imprisonment... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...and next to, also, the treatment of General Chrysochow's offspring, who, by decision of the Municipality Council of Thessaloniki, restored him from the city, which is the second witness city in Europe after Warsaw. I say these things because the issue that condensates all the issues is obviously the Presidencies' Agreement. And I'll talk about her alone. It is the'style stone', in my opinion, which is an act of liberation from this long-standing larvae of nationalism that has depreciated it and changed it to a porcupine, when it has to open its wings. This agreement ends a long-standing conflict with our neighbours of North-Montenegro, which is at the beginning of the 20th century for the fate of the territories of the Ottoman occupation of geographical Macedonia. After two bloody world wars and national cleansings, they were carved on the Balkan border without respect, in many cases, of the right to self-determination of ethnic groups. The tragic epilogue of the Civil War was written in the same area. The loose ends have become more acute with the dissolution of the Soviet Union and of the former Yugoslavia. Twenty-six years - we now entered twenty-seven - the New Democracy and the PASOK squashed and referred to the bells a complex diplomatic issue. The worst is that they turned it into ideological, poisoning the Greek society with an irresponsible nationalist rhetoric. Thus, they set the ground to build political and economic careers, but also to grow and sprinkle 'the flowers of evil', which are today threatening the democratic city. It's not the first time this has happened in our country. To remind of the venomism or Emmanuel Roidis who wrote in 1876: "Each place has its wound. England, the fog, Egypt, the eyes, the Bladder, and Greece, the patriotism." The current government has, according to international recognition - a historic agreement which puts brakes on unscrupulous mutilation and is the defeat of nationalism across borders. It is, above all, sustainable, because it is based on mutual respect and is liberating the forces of peace, progress and co-development of the two peoples. Despite the anti-government mob of the country's conservative elite, the infinitely better than the 1995 interim agreement, today's settlement unfolds the "blocked" of the Macedonian bucket. The New Democracy, in its attempt to torpedo the deal, crumbles into populism and a reheated nationalism. It objectively has no other ally than the grey nationalists of the corrupt VMRO. Her civil war cries should not divide the Greek people. We have before us a historic challenge - an opportunity and we must respond without market balance sheet, with profits and losses. We can - and we must - develop relations and joint actions with our neighbours, as other European countries have developed. Citizens' diplomacy, civil society, universities and trade unions must support this historic incision. The Embassy Agreement, in addition to an act of peace and reconciliation, breaks stereotypes, dissolves ghosts. It therefore has not only political, but educational and cultural character and sets the limits between two worlds. The starting point is the reorientation of the political forces and the creation of a new progressive pole in Greek society, as the crisis since 2010 has worked like a Minotaur that breaks down the political forces of the country. This formation must take place on the basis of values and principles, based on left-wing Europeanism, which is one of the fundamental principles of SYRIZA. Therefore, we did not reach an end with the Prespecies Agreement, but with a promising principle, as the event at the Music Concert showed. It is mainly the starting point of creating a modern progressive identity for the country, because at the same time that we raise identity issues for our neighbours, we have an image of our national identity that comes up at the end of the 19th and early 20th century. We have a problematic national identity, however much as we are glad that we are a nationally homogeneous country, a concept that is contrary to that of the nation-state of citizens. This concept crosses our society horizontally. This problem has its roots in history, in the insecurity caused by population movements in the first half of the 20th century, in the uprooting of the Asia Minor, in the change of ethnic composition in the Balkans, in national cleansing, in the policy of national assimilation that was implemented with a focus on geographical Macedonia. However, the survival and reproduction of a primitive national account decades after the removal of the causes that caused it has become a major delay factor in Greek society and the well-intentioned European acquis. This means that we must move on to deep reforms so that this national account does not have banning marks, because we cannot behave in the glimpse of the Balkans and the national uproots either as godfathers or as wheelchairmen. The national account must be based on the historical truth, for which we are fighting for. That is why we are even being sent to the courts by the supporters of historical reformism who have turned the victims into victims, at a time when our country is claiming the return of German debts and compensation for the victims of Nazi atrocities. I will say something - which I must say - to Mr Vorides. As I listened to him, I spontaneously came to mind the words of the President of the Extraordinary Military Court of Thessaloniki, Fokina Karapanos, who, when they brought him before the court with other generals for the assassination of George Tsarouha, were begging for his grace. I remember in our trial that he told Elijah Economou: "It is not only illegal act that is punishable, but also illegal thought. I would remind you that the Third Resolution included the so-called 'purpose energy'. By judging not acts but thoughts and ideas, then, the fighters ended up in the firing squads and in the horns. I am not a fan of the theory of collective responsibility, so that I can charge orders in terms, such as the well-known Voridis, the axeman, who is teaching us lessons of parliamentary morality today. I therefore believe that you do not match these views. I shall close, Mr President, with a word. What I am going to say is important and I address it in particular to the Members of the PASOK. In a move from Korydallus I am in the cage with him - condemned in fifteen years for his participation in Democratic Defence - General George Jordanides, a respected person. Unfortunately, no one listened to him when writing, before the junta, about the risk of dictatorship. So I asked him: "How do you feel, my general, to be condemned by Law 509 that we, by definition, have been condemned to overthrow the regime?" You know what he said to me? It's very important, because you're feeding the harvest to throw the government down. "It is the vengeance of history, my child, that we fed the harvest and swallowed us." Get the lessons out of this story.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Karamanlis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, then, from the world, the fantasy, the world of exaggeration and pastology, let us return to the world of the right speech. Today we do not just discuss whether the government will be given a vote of confidence. Today we are debating whether the government will be given a vote of confidence to pass the Ambassadors' agreement. So these two are interconnected. In order for the government to pass the Prespecies Agreement, it asks for a vote of confidence this evening. Therefore, in our view, this is the central political challenge that we are discussing in this Chamber. And you will allow me to refer exclusively to this and not to the overall governmental work. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we are experiencing an unprecedented demonstration of political humiliation and decline. MPs are on their way. Technical parliamentary majorities are being created. Chairs and posts are exchanged with consciences. Parts are late or held in life by artifacts. Inside all this, we live - if you want - and a reversal of 2015. At that time, Mr. Tsipras actually had the support of the Greek people, who had been swept away from unadulterated and unadulterated promises, but did not seem to convince many abroad. Because, you see, he was wearing the cloak of the European revolutionary. Today, however, the people have turned their back. But Mr. Tsipras and his government have found support abroad. He once called Chancellor of Germany, Mr Merkel, Friedrich. Today you welcome her with ingenuity. And, of course, Chancellor, I am sure she feels totally entitled to her policy because she did not change policy. Mr. Tsipras and you worship where you find each other. So in this problematic political environment, the political life of the place is evolving at the beginning of 2019. If you had personal or political ethics, you would make the obvious: You would have led the country to elections. You wouldn't accept staying in the government in this really humiliating way. So to clarify things, firstly, whoever votes 'yes' in the vote of confidence votes 'yes' in the 'yes' agreement. Anyone who will vote later 'yes' in the Presidencies' agreement will, in essence, give the government a vote of confidence. If, then, some in this Chamber, even at the last hour, do not want to sign this appalling agreement, it does not mean that they are ethnicly neutral. We, because we disagree, do not mean that we are ethnicly neutral. It means we're patriots. And I wonder with some of the Members of the Couple who have the courage to come to this Step and blame the historic party of Constantine Karamanlis, saying that we are ethnicly neutralists. I would therefore like us to be a little more careful when we make a public speech. Secondly, if this agreement is finally passed, a situation arises which is not reversed. Following the adoption of the agreement, no government and no Prime Minister will be able to cancel it. What would be the easiest thing for us in the New Democracy to say, ladies and gentlemen of the Partnership? And it's what you've done in the past. So the easiest thing to say is that when we become a government, we will cancel the deal, that we will abolish it by a law and an article. But we in the New Democracy are not politically amoralists and neither should we - nor should we - hide the truth from the Greek people. Various people in this Chamber, on the right, or on the left, see that they have a machival mood - if you like - and they ask: 'What will the New Democracy do with the Ambassadors' agreement when it takes over the country'? Let's be clear. If the Prespes are ratified in the Greek Parliament, this will fully commit the country to the future. The international community, International Law, have very specific rules and these agreements are not unilaterally denounced. After all, you have taken care of this with the Prespecies Agreement. The agreement itself provides, within its text - a very tight legal text - in paragraph 9 of Article 20 that its provisions are irrevocable. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that you will soon be presenting - and I am very afraid - the Ambassadors' Agreement here in Parliament for ratification. And we're asking you: What are you finally afraid of? Who's after you? Is someone putting pressure on you? Is that how you understand the dialogue in the Greek Parliament? In conclusion, I would like you to ask me a question: do you, who believe in mediation, do you believe in these procedures, why do you not take the initiative for a referendum after you deny the elections? Because you have never been authorised by the Greek people to close this national issue in this way. So, you, who are allegedly left-wing, so-called democrats, who have popular sensations, you who voted in 2015, who, according to many of the well-known lawyers - escaped the conditions of Article 44 of the Constitution, now that the risk is the definition of what the Constitution provides for a referendum, that is, a critical national issue, why are you afraid to resort to the Greek people's crisis? We as a New Democracy, you know, are not in favour of referendums. But you did that in 2015. So you did it where it brought you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u82	New Democracy suggests it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u83	And the reason why you are not doing this now, dear Mr Triantafylides, is because you know you will lose, you know that you have citizens in front of you, you know that this is a nationally harmful agreement and, unfortunately, you are putting your party interest above the national. You are interested, therefore, as many of you are accused of keeping in power and going through an adventure that, in my view, raises huge problems in the future, because none of you can surely tell me what geopolitical developments will be in the region in ten, twenty, thirty years' time. So this dangerous, cynical amoralism of yours is the most important reason why we will not give "yes" to the vote of confidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u86	What do you want, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u87	Mr. President, Mr. Karayannis of SYRIZA...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u88	Tell me what you want and then develop...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u89	I want to speak on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u90	Against what subject?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u91	Against the reference made by Mr Karayannides not to talk about the MPs, because we forget that Mr Georgiadis has received exchanges for going to New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u92	He didn't say a name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u93	I've got it in a video with my name, ma'am.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Georgiades, excuse me very much, but let me run. Ladies and gentlemen, do not react. I was not in the Bureau, and I need to know what has happened. Otherwise, the procedure is over. And I don't play any part. So, what happened, Mr. Georgiadis? Mr. Karayannides said something, I suppose, hours ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u95	A while ago, not hours ago. Ten minutes ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Georgiadis, please too much for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u97	Mr. President, what are you doing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u98	Please, Mr. Femmelle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Karayannides had the nerve...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, Mr Karayannides is not present.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u101	There is one issue, Mr Georgiadis. I tell you from the outset that, because Mr Karayannides is not here, your staff will not evolve in a speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u102	He can come, just like I came. And I wasn't there, but he talked about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u103	You only have a minute, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Karayannides had the courage to lie about me in this House that I was supposedly saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u105	Mr President, Mr Karayannides is not present.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u106	Please, Mrs. Cabadia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u107	...that I'm not going to New Democracy, and in a week's time I went to New Democracy to get a Ministry. The video I referred to and said I would not go to the New Democracy was November 2010.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u108	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u109	I went to New Democracy in February 2012. I don't know how they count time in SYRIZA, but that's two years in between. The interim was the bankruptcy of the country, the memorandum, the government of Papademos. And, of course, I was with the People's Orthodox Alert and not with the New Democracy. I became with New Democracy after being elected by a cross after a year and a half. So any comparison with Mrs. Papakostas, Mr. Koudouras, and Mrs. Koudoura and all of them doesn't touch me. With regard to reports by many SYRIZA MPs about the intimidation of MPs, I am presenting in Minutes the cover of "The Honni" with my photograph by Evangelos Meimarakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u110	Mr. President, what are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u111	Please, Mr. Femmelle, let me work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u112	I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is going to be able to answer this question. I dedicate it to you, gentlemen of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u113	Mr Georgiadis, this is completely out of the personal matter. It's not gonna happen yesterday. And can I tell you something else? You said everything you said yesterday when you rejected Mr Polakis' own remarks. This story won't be done every ten minutes. Please very much. Please! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and three educational sessions from the 5th General High School of Agaleo. Welcome to the Greek Parliament, guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Socrates Famelos, now has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, an issue has already been raised on the violation of the parliamentary debate by the Vice-President of the New Democracy on a seemingly personal position, which was just another theatrical performance within this House. But demand for a vote of confidence is a very serious process. It does not, of course, correspond to what the New Democracy has given us as an experience and its members. But the government and the Prime Minister will not work on this debate and will prove by the clear and explicit mandate that we are going to take today that we are going to continue and complete the mandate of the government. However, the debate itself and the recommendations made by the Heads have shown, on the basis of the choices made by the parties, something else: the major political change that has taken place since 2015. On the government and Prime Minister's side we hear clear words. Full mandate, no tolerance, no clear support and parliamentary control, all on the table, all confidence and stability for the country, plan and identity in politics. One option, one criterion, the majority of society and the interests of citizens. Since 2015, we have assumed responsibility that was not ours. A country in bankruptcy, a country broken down with serious problems both in the social fabric and in the productive structure. What the government has inherited us in which Mr.Georgiadis has dared and talked about the transaction and his participation in a government with the help of the LAS in New Democracy, along with their political opponent for years, PASOK, in a government that sold Greece, went bankrupt and brought it into the memorandum. But we didn't just stay in them. We didn't really have the blame. But we had a responsibility to support this country and the Greeks. And we did this with a lot of trouble and, if you like, many times and the strength Greece had at the time, creating new powers and new alliances that have made us acceptable to the euro area today. We've embedded the national course and the national identity. The patriotic interests are also the recognition by Mrs Merkel of the role that Greece now plays and the dynamics that this government has in Europe. But what do I see from the standpoint of counterpopulation? Unfortunately, Mr. Karamanlis left. I shall therefore address the questions to you. Mr Mitsotakis does not dare even submit a motion of censure. That's their political size. They are shouting, but they do not dare even submit a motion of censure, because they are theatrical, hypocritical and they do not even have a position on the issue of Macedonian. They don't have a seat. They are also being criticised for the citizens of Macedonia. I'm trembling about the idea and the possibility that the Treaty of Ambassadors won't pass. Mr. Theodorakis said that intrinsically everyone wants the Prespecies Agreement to pass. He said it and said it in public. They do an irresponsible, micro-particular and hypocritical management of this issue, and they pull out dark methods that appear to be in the traffic posters, because they are in panic and despair. Ladies and gentlemen, every day when the government's political plan is being implemented, it reduces Mr Mitsotakis's political capital, but also Mrs Genders, I have to say, because every day the essential correlations are changing within society, economic and labour relations, because the interests of the world of work are now being increased. We have collective agreements, abolishing the threshold, increasing the threshold, alleviating households from insurance contributions, alleviating the trade charge on farmers. We have support for the new family with the rental allowance, but we will also have a solution to the problem of red loans for professionals, a solution to the issue of debts to taxes and funds, and we will also have a debate on the constitutional review. But for an important national issue they are mocking Greeks, especially the citizens of Thessaloniki and Macedonia. And I would like the Members of the European Parliament to be here to say so. But be careful how hypocritical Mr. Mitsotakis is. You heard him yesterday. While he creates an extended pre-election period asking for elections every two days for three years, yesterday he denounced the government because he created, says, a pre-election period and the economy is upset. This is the political size of the man. He reported himself on what he's been doing for three years. But they do not care about the interests of the country. Unfortunately they are interested in the inherited right to authority. They only want to manage the issues of power to satisfy their friends, to settle contracts that have been settled for so many years and after they have been given loans in air, to be taken out by the Canadian MPs again. But that's what she's been through. Another period has begun for the country. A new period has begun outside comitology. A period has begun which is not for the few, because during the hard memorial period the rich became richer, and the system's best friends again took the “NOVARTIS” contracts. Do not forget, for then the most vulnerable became even weaker. We are, however, restoring this kind of thing, a thing created by those who are now sitting in the chairs of counter-population. It is clear that they do not want the country to rely on its own feet. They don't want to have institutional procedures. They do not want equality, economic policy for all and transparency. They want corporations and they ask foreign corporations to do so at the time of the memorandum, because they asked foreigners to impose on us austerity policies. But the policy it has started is different in our country and now has a solid basis. That's why they're protesting so much. Greece now has a general role in both the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean and Europe. Greece's progress and prosperity are not independent of the path of neighbouring countries. We have made a choice to support this agreement, because we and our neighbours want to go out. Because if there are losers in this story, losers will eventually be the children of the Greeks. And we are very interested in this story and the interests of our country. The European perspective of the Balkan countries, the stability of the Balkans and the overcoming of ethnic and religious differences are in the interest of Greece, because it ensures the functioning of our country. And this is a real patriotic attitude. I would remind you that at the beginning of 2017 a move we made was to bring here to ratify the agreement on the protection of the Prespes park. Ladies and gentlemen, seventeen years from the initiative of the Greek Government, this Prespecies Agreement, a unique natural chapter, was not coming to the Greek Parliament because they dared, they did not have the political power and dare to make such choices of cooperation. We now have the largest transnational agreement established for two years, which is to the benefit of the people of Florinas and they know it. The Prespecies residents applauded it. It is something similar, of course, with what is being done today with the great agreement on the Balkans. For twenty - five years the issue of the name of the neighbors has been very problematic to us. Our government has dared, in cooperation with the neighbours, to recognise this - to set a framework for the two countries to move forward together in the future. The previous governments - to make it clear - were either unable or not able to solve this problem in our interest. They feared election costs, the "Samarades", the "Georgiadis", the "Borides". Indeed, that was the reality, but of course the negative handling for neighbors. But I would like a little bit personally to confide in what I myself have been living as a citizen of Thessaloniki for at least twenty-five years, maybe even twenty-seven. Challenge of Macedonia's Greekity. We were with Mr. Saridis, Mr. Lazarides. Violation and counterfeiting of history. Diplomatic costs and use by Macedonian name neighbours in all international fora recognized by a hundred forty countries. Tourists' passports that went and came under the name "Macedonia" above. Business to close and go to Skopje. We've lived this for the past twenty years. Loss of international organizations and organizations. This retreat is important because at the same time the country has called without a referendum, but with many elections, a line: a complex name for all uses of erga omnes. This line was tabled by the Government of Karamanlis in 2007 by Mrs Dora Bakoyannis in the programming statements. It's registered. Mr. Venizelos presented it to the UN in 2014, as Minister of Mr. Samaras, Mr. Avramopoulos, Mr. Dimas in 2012, Mr. Lambrinides in 2011. This national line is in full compliance with the Prespecies Agreement, and it is resolved at the same time with a change in constitution, name and issues that have to do with the use of the name and within the neighbouring country. It is one of the greatest victories we have achieved, and even more advanced than in previous years, because it includes a constitutional review. The constitutional review of the neighbours is a success of this government, Alexis Tsipras and Nikos Kotzias. I would like to add to this the change in the attitude of the church, which has now called for a change in the name of the autonomous Church of Macedonia and for a discussion with the Patriarchate of Istanbul, as well as changes in names on roads and airports that have already been made. But I think the most important thing that the Greeks of Macedonia have won is that the Greekity of Macedonia's history has been guaranteed. They can no longer use the great Alexander, the sun of Berna, or the names of our history any more. And that's what we've earned. The opposition has been hiding it from Greek citizens, because we know that the neighbouring country has been whispering the name all these years and we know that four of the five members of the UN Security Council had recognized them by another name. We must not hide that, because it is an undersubstantiated choice that is made by the Opposition. He's hiding reality. It refers to an imaginary level where the global diplomatic scene has no problem with the use of the name. But what is the reality, what are the real dilemmas? It is that for twenty-five years Macedonia's name has been lost and we are getting it back. This government takes the name of Macedonia back and takes back the Greekity of Macedonia's history, why is the real dilemma "Republic of Northern Macedonia" or "Democracy of Macedonia"? Peace coexistence constitutionally guaranteed or altruistic claims in the Constitution of neighbors claiming both populations and territories? Institutional safeguarding of Greek history or seeing the Great Alexander with their own name in the square of Skopje? Thessaloniki dominance in the Balkans for the co-operation of the peoples of the Balkans or turned on the back, on its natural borders, fearful, undevelopment and without innovation? But they do not speak honestly to Greek citizens. They have two lines and they honestly sell, depending on what's of interest to them, differently. To some, especially in my region, they deny the national line, they do not speak of a complex name with geographical determination, while in contrast to those who are still talking about a complex name they have been using - and the weakness of Mr Mitsotakis - his opposition to the language, which has never existed, because for national reasons as a counterweight to Bulgarian expansionism, the issue of language has been used by the Greek state for many years, but also the issue of citizenship, which is clear that the Skopje Parliament itself, Northern Macedonia, now, has made it clear that citizenship does not define, nor predeterminate the nationality to which the citizens of the country belong. In fact, even for trade names and names it is mandatory that the products written ‘Made in Macedonia’ should change for the benefit of Greek products. But it is genuinely hypocritical - and I would like to say this - that within the European People's Party the New Democracy is not put in place and no one should ask Mr Weber when he was here about what the position of the European People's Party is, while at the same time the European Community should want Greece, Europe and the Balkans to go ahead, but Mr Mitsotakis should hide from an issue which, if it were really patriotic, should put it in the European People's Party. The size of hypocrisy, however, and Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Gennimata to some extent, is also apparent from the triple line they use. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I will give you an example. Yesterday or yesterday in the Committee of the Regions Mr Djijkostas called for a resolution against the Prespecies Agreement, adopting the proposal 'no reference to the use of the name of Macedonia'. Mr. Vorides said yesterday that he was with me on a TV show. The question, then, is: Do they say when it's government and others say when it's Disarmament? In 2007, as far as I can see, Mr. Djijkostas was Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the New Republic. In 2008, in Bucharest, Costas Karamanlis, Dora Bakoyannis and Vangellis Meimarakis defended the complex name by geographical identification. Now we're told he's against the complex name by geographical determination. Mr Mahiridis, as far as I can see, has also voted for this in the Committee of the Regions. The New Democracy and the Change Movement must therefore be placed: ultimately what is their position. How hypocrites against the Greek Macedonians are they? That is because they are judging in this regard. Unless the LAS has dominated the New Democracy, because yes, indeed Mr Georgiadis and Mr Vorides may have always had this position. And perhaps this is the reality, which shows even more the great political deficit of Mr Mitsotakis, who can't even be in his party's position. For a national issue they play with conscience, patriotism and the need for progress of Macedonia's Greeks and sell elsewhere that they do not want any use of Macedonia's name, while in Parliament they say they want use of Macedonia's name, while in the European People's Party they say they will not question the ratification of the agreement, which Mr Karamanlis said earlier here. So what's the reality? How many lines hypocritical and against the patriotic interest does New Democracy have?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u115	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u116	I shall conclude, Mr President. And, at the same time, do not forget that this creates corridors for Russia's policy, which was against the agreement by saying what? The name ‘Republic of Macedonia’ must remain. They're an alliance with them. With what interests? Will they be in favour of national interests? Because I also heard Mr Venizelos look to Russia's intervention. So we have to say that to the Thessalonians. Our national interest is the role of leader in the Balkans, support for the European road, strengthening democratic forces, respect for citizens, against authoritarianism, against nationalism and against corruption. Because, indeed, this government wins both in patriotic and national interests, takes back the Greekity of Macedonia's history, wins on a path of growth and creation. Because if they really loved Macedonia, would they not open the Tempes and Tunnels, would they not go on the metro, would they not make the body of the Thermal Gulf? Wouldn't they give the camps of Kodra and Paul Mellas to Thessaloniki? Would not all these projects that this government is moving on? Finally, who really loves Thessaloniki?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u117	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u118	So in the question, Mr President, the posters today, I would like to say that they have betrayed Thessaloniki politically, all those who were ruling in the past few years and underestimated it. They did not proceed with works of Thessaloniki, they did not improve the quality of life of Thessaloniki, they did not support Thessaloniki. And on the self-government level they chose only to renew self-government chairs without vision, with no prospect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u120	This government has really strengthened Thessaloniki and northern Greece and Macedonia, and that is why it must also be supported by the vote of confidence in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u121	Thank you. Now Mrs. Hara Kafantaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Prime Minister's decision to vote for a vote of confidence by the Greek Parliament today is an act of supreme political responsibility, responsibility and honesty, which is the main features of the Left in all its history to date. But it would be a good thing, ladies and gentlemen, if the responsibility and sincereness were to be characterized at the modern times that we are experiencing overall political forces and the political system in the country, through differences of opinion, through different payments and different ideologies, with sincerity to have a dialogue, with objections, different opinions, but basically to dominate the sense of national responsibility, responsibility towards the big national issues. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, we are living an insanity: micro-political, micro-partyism dominates national issues by putting these serious interests in the arena of party interest. While the government could continue and complete its work on which it committed itself to the Greek people, I would say - the vote of confidence. As in 2015, after the resolution of the Third Programme, the third memorandum again called for the Greek people's vote to be authorised to continue, to take the country out of the memoranda, through a difficult path, always looking at society and people. We had a hard time, but we made it. Our country is constantly upgrading. Geopolitically, its role is very important, it is now becoming an estimated force in the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans, it is becoming a hub of trade, energy, transit, digital, and it is an interesting investment polo, and this is also seen by the great investment interest that has been growing in recent years, particularly in the energy sector. So while our country is recovering and demanding in the new memorial era that there should be a coexistence of political forces with criticism, but with different proposals, but proposals for the definitive recovery of the country, we are living what we are living for. The image of the House from the standpoint of Anti-Population yesterday was not at all honorary to the temple of democracy, as we say today. Does the Opposition have any suggestions? I'd say no. Beyond the sterile opposition of style: 'elections now' - of course, it is a question of whether they really want elections, and indeed, Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy - it is exploiting national issues, such as the Prespecies Agreement, while they are resorting to threats, terrorism, etc., which we have been living in the last few years. Evident political claims, inexcusable idealism are a confession of political defeat, gentlemen of counter-population. Use of old declarations made in other circumstances, at another time, are accompanied by ideoleptic references to a different environment today. All of this confesss to your political defeat and the impossibility of political arguments. All of these are fireworks, make news, rich internal consumption, for example the existence of new memoranda, need, etc. But we're entering a new era. As Evripidis said, "The very difficult situations also bring great changes". In this new era, therefore, some people, in this case the government, perceives it and designs policies, new data, with the best interests of the country. Some people, the opposition, don't want to admit it. Why? Political, reasonable, interests of all the old political establishment, which it reacts. Why? Those who broke the country, who have used the state for decades as a spoil, which favoured state-owned entrepreneurship, who used banks as a maritime system and so many others, now come and move their hands to the government because they fear. After all, ladies and gentlemen, fragmentation is the mask of fear. We, the Greek Government, want to move our country further, to deepen democracy, to restore the working environment, to increase wages, to abolish the subordinate, to create collective agreements, to reduce unemployment, finally to relieve small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which has lifted the time of the memorandums, to move the constitutional review, and - fundamentally - to play the leading role that our country can play in the Balkans, the role it deserves through peaceful coexistence and co-development policies. You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, with your cloak, want a Greece of the past, a Greece which is fearful, closed in its crab to be umbilical. You want a Greece of the 1960s, free of charge, with threats to those with a different viewpoint, with outdated designations and, above all, a lack of proposals. In conclusion, I would like to say this: what is the risk today? The big question today about Greece and Europe is: With Pinochet's insurance and Curz's 12 hours work a day? Or with a broad democratic majority in Greece with SYRIZA core for the benefit of society, for the definitive recovery of our country and, of course, for Europe with a definitive barrier to the extreme right and incarnate neoliberalism that they brought both Greece and Europe here that brought it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by drawing attention to the Bolsheviks, comosomers and leftists of all colors. We didn't expect anything different from you. We knew who you were, we knew what you were saying, when you were still out-parliamentarians with percentages that were barely recorded in the polls. So since the Greek people have made the mistake of giving you power so that you can apply all the things you have said with your sick ideas, unfortunately you have to make a decision quite different so that it can correct this mistake. What have we seen since the start of this debate? From the government officials, even from a friendly media to the government, there has been an attempt to disconnect the debate you started with the Prespecies Agreement. It's got a direct relationship, but it's very direct. However, this debate should not even begin. This debate, ladies and gentlemen, had begun exactly 148 years ago. The first one to start it was Captain Kottas. Ion Dragoumis, Paul Melas, Metropolitan Castoria Karavangellis, had participated in this debate. And this debate lasted 38 consecutive years with a peak in the last four years. What was written in blood doesn't come out with a lie. Keep it well in mind, those of you who want to vote in favour of the proposal for a vote of confidence or the Embassy Agreement. In this race they gave the present crowd of Greek fighters from our testimony Crete. Of the six thousand Macedonian fighters in the Macedonian struggle, the Cretans framed him with three thousand. We had seven hundred sixty nine victims of Cretan warriors. The Maniotians, who didn't even want to do anything at all, contributed to this struggle. All the regions of Greece contributed to this struggle. What did you do? You have achieved the despair and scam that this debate brought from the Greek people. You have succeeded and humiliated the political and political system. I will not go into the posters you say. But since you think you are so populous and so dear, get off to the rally, go to the neighborhoods in the province, see how the Greek people open their arms to welcome you. You call us 'the egg of the snake'. If we are the'snake egg', you are the asbes, who externally have a nice look, but they smell and live, as a secretary of a party of this House had once said. There has been mention of the consequences that might arise from the non-voting of the Prespecies Agreement by executives, MPs and the media who are close to you. Indeed, Minister Famelos - the Minister left - told us that the losers would be our children. What exactly will they lose? He didn't tell us. No one in this Chamber told us what the Greek people have to gain from this agreement. In fact, the Minister, Mr Famelos, referred to the Greek company's departure to Skopje. Are we all right? The Greek companies left northern Greece for one single reason, for the overtaxation that you and all the Memorandum governments have imposed. Yesterday the Prime Minister said he would accept all the resignations from the co-pilots. He lied. This morning she did not accept Mrs Papakosta's resignation. We call for the government representative to come and tell us why Mrs Papakostas has not been allowed to resign. That's what happened this morning. Yesterday the Prime Minister praised Mr Apostolakis' CV - I do not know him personally, nor will I say whether he is good or bad - he made mention of serving the Greek flag faithfully. He did well, and that's why he swore, to serve and believe. But didn't Mr. Tsipras tell us what flag you believe in at all the events of your youth? In fact, there were some statements from PASOK. There have also been statements by Mr Venizelos on deletions. Will you remove Mr. Theocharopoulos, who will not vote for the vote of confidence, but will vote for the Prespecies Agreement? And, unfortunately, the current government - because it is no longer a coup d'état, apart from some independent ones - consists of the core of the PASOK war. But it's New Democracy time too. It's right time. Really, what didn't you know about New Democracy? Didn't you know what this deal is about to contain? Because other things your leader, Mr. Mitsotakis, says in Greece, but he states abroad. Does the name Elmar Brok and Manfred Weber tell you, gentlemen of the New Democracy? Let me make a little reference to their resumes so the rest of them know what we're talking about. Elmar Brok is the Member of the European Parliament with the longest presence in the European Parliament. It has been elected since 1980. It belongs to the European People's Party, where you are part of the New Democracy. And Mr Manfred Weber is a candidate for the post of President of the European Commission, a member of the Bavarian Christian Social Union and a MEP who also belongs to the European People's Party. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. What did they say? They interviewed an online website, "EURACTIV", which deals with European issues. They said Mr. Mitsotakis was lying. Others say in Greece and more says in Europe. And I am reading you on self-explanations as to what Mr Elmar Brok said. The German Christian Democrats therefore state that the New Democracy has said to the European People's Party - and if it does not, go out and deny me - that they would accept a validated name change agreement. He even added that this issue was discussed in the European People's Party. Consequently, it is good that in these talks the New Democracy declares that it will accept the ratified agreement when it participates in the government. That was Weber's statement. You can enter the ‘EURACTIV’ website and read their interviews. Those who want to sign your signature know that you sign the condemnation of a piece of Greece, the sale of part of Greece. We're not trying to make things look good, we're trying to get the Greek people to know the truth. What I said before is true. And I have one last message to the Greek people and especially to our Greek youth: Golden Dawn is the last line of defense, but keep in mind that it is the first line of counter-attack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Ioannette Cavadia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me begin by saying that we are not accepting lessons of fellow solidarity from New Democracy in our relations with the President of Parliament, in relationships that have been tested and involved in the years in which no one can even imagine. The vulgar attacks on him neither touch nor touch us. So let the Civic Opposition give rise to impressions. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few hours' time in this Chamber an historic meeting will be completed. And Parliament, with its vote of confidence, will confirm that the reconstructing of the political landscape has already begun. Over the last four years, with very tough governmental efforts, and with great sacrifices on the part of the citizens, we have managed to get the country out of the nightmare of the memoranda, keeping society up. And now leaving the painful Sympathies is the moment when efforts and struggles will begin to bear fruit. Many important steps have been taken in the past. They have been mentioned by the Prime Minister, by ministers, by colleagues and colleagues, I do not need to repeat them. Significant laws have been introduced concerning every aspect of everyday life, provisions to enable the economy to breathe within the suffocating role of lenders, provisions that defended the world of work, programs to curb the humanitarian crisis, bold areas in the health sector, a series of legislation that more effectively shielded individual and social rights, a series of laws on transparency and the fight against interlocutory, another series of government decisions that ensured the most democratic and more incomprehensible way of functioning of the state. All of this has already left their print on the country's public life. It is obvious, however, that much still needs to be done. We are now going through the period when we reject pension attacks, during which we are increasing the income of citizens by the announced minimum increase and the abolition of the indifference of the underpaid wage. We are going through the age of governance through closed elites and political business families, in the days of mere analogues. We are gradually exempted, and not easily, from the circuits of interplanetary and corruption, by seeking a world with fewer economic and, more generally, less class inequality. There is, of course, the opposite side. The side that is coalitioning against the new political landscape that is being created. All those who see that they are once again losing their usual access to public money, all those who have a client system collapsed, all those whose far-right fascist ideas show their teeth, because they can't afford to hide any more. Neoliberal technocrats of closed offices who had guaranteed an expensive job in Dad's business, in Daddy's friend's bank or in the last floor of the ministry thanks to Dad's political sponsorship. Chrysanthemums of intertwined and always appropriate acquaintances, so-called Europeans only if Europe guarantees and does not affect their privileges, now appear tightly humiliated without quarrel with the most conservative, reactionary, nationalistic and ultimately fascist, has the Greek society in its dark. What connects this dialectic alliance? But the vindicating desire to regain power that they think is rightfully their own. And in front of this "hero" for them, they will not hesitate to anything. They're enlisting all the yellow press in his most humiliating versions. They're attacking justice because he's investigating their scandals. They're threatening calls, messages and posters, MPs. Indeed, they also consider it a necessary political act. According to the Deputy Representative of the New Democracy, this is an obligation. At the same time, on the occasion of the historic Prespecies Agreement - an agreement which closes a timely national issue on which political and religious careers have been built - invest in all tons in the patriocapacy as their last refuge, while at the same time closing the eye on foreigners saying: "Okay, look, we don't even mean what we're saying." And they make it clear that as soon as they are able to get back to normal, they intend, as they said, from the Step of the New Democracy Conference, the leader himself, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to end not only with what the Left does, but also with what he believes. That is precisely what the policymakers and black-poor politicians declared to be their ancestors who ruled after the Civil War. In Greece, ladies and gentlemen, they dream of re-establishing Greece, of ideological hatred and hatred, as in their old good times. I would like to remind you at this point that in Poland, a extreme right-wing assassinated Gdansk Mayor, who had been threatened against his life, because, among other things, he supported the gay pride in his town. I would also remind you that a few years ago a extreme right murdered a British Labour MP, a campaigner against Brexit. So let us consider the companions of Orban and Salvini, the fans of Bolsonar and Lepenn, when they remain silent or even when they encourage extortion practices and threats against elected representatives of the Greek people. Katerina Gogou wrote the far away 1981: "I have kept a few clips with someone who said it's you. I know the newspapers lie because they wrote that they ran away on you. I know they never point to feet. In mind is the target. Mind, huh?' Be sure, then, that the people keep an eye on them. And you, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation, count without the hotel owner. You have not understood not only the dynamics of the alliance formed by SYRIZA at political level, but you do not understand the processes that are taking place in the social field, in youth, in the world of work and in movements. The old and worn costume of the 1950s, despite the so-called modern stitches, smells so sharply extreme right naphthalene and is so full of economic "oils" that it cannot move anyone. And this will be seen in the next few months by the inspiring inspires of the opposition strategy, as our awesome proposals and plans will be unfolded and more and more people will turn on the side of the SYRIZA until the elections in October 2019. Although you may have already begun to understand your deadlocks, those who have chosen to invest in extreme social polarization. It is clear from yesterday's concern in your voices. And it is not just your concern, it is absolutely justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Constantine Tasoulas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u128	A mob of chasomers, humiliated by unworthy and incompetent leaders mocking, stumbling and indifferent. It's the world of the Gospels and the Orestines. It's desperation. Thus he describes the stubbornness of the beginnings of the previous century, George Seferis. How could we be paraphrasing and describing today's outrage? A troubling parliamentary heir, humiliated by worthless and cynical leaders, votes, moves and ultimately supports. It's the SYRIZA world - ANEL. It is the world of the assignment of Macedonian language and Macedonian identity. It's today's unconsciousness. And this today's dissatisfaction is inviting you to support it by voting twice and this evening and very soon with your equal vote in the Prespecies Agreement. And it is not a question of the Prime Minister's courage, it is a question of calculating the Prime Minister. When the Prime Minister had not come up with a numerical assessment of the situation, you were talking about a tolerance government. And when the arithmetic assessment of the situation, following the directed divorce with the God-feared Mr. Kammenos, concluded, then the Prime Minister proceeded, not by courage, but by calculation, in submitting the proposal of confidence, to have the effect of an unprecedented crisis from which the impact is absent. Have you ever seen a policy crisis without impact? You have created a crisis without, however, an impact on you! And Mr Kammenos, who, when he played his part in stopping the Prespecies, supported the government, now that his vote does not play a part, is withdrawn from the government after he has transferred it. And because he publicly shared before he came here, I would like, in order to alleviate the atmosphere, Mr. Phile, to present an amazing text of Laskaratou entitled "The Godfather". Apparently consult Mr. Kammenos not to sue Lascarato for having died for centuries. He has been eradicated, if any, of his crime. "The Godfather," Lascaratos says, "does his religion. He's taking advantage of the sky to live on the earth. If he's a loan shark, he throws a veil full of strangles. If it's bankrupt, what a nice word, I've never heard it, the one who owes the banks, "extraordinary confidence and new funds. The Theobachite is only pleased in the safe diaphragm and slander. The only fools suspect him and they are his balls, and in the occasion his victims are." And I'm afraid they too have disappeared. So take the "theobachite" of Lascaratos. After you, supposedly, have been misled by parliamentarians, enjoy the literary. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Konstantinos Tasoulas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Stenography and Practice.]] So we now have a direction of crisis and a paradox: the government's persistence in harming the country, that is to say the government's persistence of instability. And already, if we get out of this Chamber and try to see the messages around, we see the first pretexts of discounting the Prime Minister's calculation of the discount, that is, this unprecedented hundred and fifty one that you will seek at midnight. We already have concerns about the poor course of prerequisites for the second post-finance assessment, and we also have the announcement from the OECD's precedents, data and evidence of economic slowdown in the next nine months. Nine months, just as long as this government's constitutional term is. And that's where the paradox comes up. Your staying in power to be a non-stability factor, but to be instability factor for the country. And I conclude by saying that the vote this evening has nothing to do with Gorgotamos, nor with the posters, nor with the rectification of the Right, nor with all those myths and legends with which you are watering yourself to take a deep breath and support a harmful government that is close to a harmful national agreement. What you have to understand is that no matter what you say, no matter what you say has already been said by the first Olethic. The last one shall be deemed, ‘to the last one each shall be deemed to be ‘to the last one’. And you will be judged not by your ideological advances, which you have devoured, nor by your rivalry with an unexistent right, which you appear to be so horrificly malicious while it isn't. You will have harmed the country by giving government stability to yourself, but by putting the country on a smaller or larger one, and by October 2019 adventure and trial that neither the country deserves nor you will see that you are enduring it. So stay with yourself tonight, stay with your responsibilities, take your responsibilities. We'll take it from here. The only consolation of these developments is that later or later the Greek people will speak and what they will say will be overwhelming for you and rectifying for the country. Mr. Mitsotakis, the charm of enormous responsibilities awaits you. I must admit I envy you. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the last few days, apart from difficult political and parliamentary days, for us Independent Greeks, are difficult and emotional. It's this disappointment and the bitterness that betrayal leaves. This is, perhaps, the biggest curse of our tribe. In our blood, except for heroism, our historic path proves treason also flows. I can't remember there were Persians who were swelled. On the contrary, there were Greeks who were not. The Greeks on the side of Darius almost exceeded the Greeks who were written on the side of Alexander the Great. It's our choice. Do we want to be offspring of Leonidas or Nightmare? Do we want to be descendants of Colokotronis or Nineku? We in our movement unfortunately embraced Nights. They crossed the lines that differentiated us from the government partner. They betrayed the principles they showed at the outset that they were embracing. They betrayed all of us. They betrayed the Greek people's vote. They betrayed the vote of their fellow citizens. But, mostly, they betrayed their conscience. And do not deceive yourself, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Whoever did this once will finally do it again, because that is an element of its character. A character practiced in the career championship and nothing prevents him from changing camps with a rhetoric of uncovered resentment. Even yesterday, the Prime Minister in his speech exclaimed his cooperation with us, which we supported with honesty and clarity, with the same honesty that we left when we deeply disagreed with the Skopje issue. But for us, the Independent Greeks was not the least dilemma. The country lies above all, because it is a guide to the tomorrow of all those who make it. And, over time, it is the traitor who gives his homeland to his historic death, commanding his close private and material interest as most important. In the archaic sense of law, as this very specific way appears in the grand words of our ancestors, the worst forms of treason are the adoption of agreements that harm our homeland. How can we accept the Prespecies Agreement as a benefit when a series of polls from June to December 2018 reflect the disagreement of Greek citizens in a order of 75% to 86%? There is one argument which is deplorable and perused by the opposition and, more generally, the wars of the Independent Greeks that we would not have arrived to this end if the Independent Greeks had accepted and voted for the proposal of distrust of the New Democracy and in this way the Ambassadors' agreement would not have been signed at the press. No falseer of this. No one could stop the then Foreign Minister from signing. Don't twist the truth. Don't abuse reality. It is also called the draft agreement as an agreement. No agreement has so far been reached to bring about legal effects which bring about legal consequences. To this end, the supreme court of the country, the Council of State, on the one hand, and, on the other, the Secretary-General of NATO, Stolttenberg, accepted the above, on the other hand, that, until the draft agreement of the National Assembly of Ambassadors was ratified, no accession procedure will be concluded and that Skopje will never be able to join the Atlantic Alliance. Let's remember that. Let us say it, let us not hide it, let us not try to mislead and shape public opinion in a way that politically serves, but the truth is hidden. What else would we have achieved if we were to vote on the proposal of distrust of Officers? We would have succeeded in our political self-arming as mandated and appointed Templers that some would have indicated to us when and why we had to consent. What else would we have achieved? To bring about political instability, a crucial moment for the national economy for the Greeks, for entrepreneurs, for merchants, by blocking our exit from the memoranda. At the same time, all the economic indicators were upwards and composed the image elements that suggested that our national economy is being warmed up, the Greek state is beginning to come together. But, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely would like to ask you to put forward another argument, that Skopje recognised them as the "Democratic Republic of Macedonia" of a hundred countries: does it really matter what the forty countries did or what we do? Really, why, after a hundred and forty countries have been recognized by the Greek Government, as it allows it to be understood through the provocative rumours, pressures to resolve this issue? Having all recognized them, why on the back of poor Pseudomina today these political developments are taking place? Because only with our own recognition and so-called resolution of the Skopje nominal issue can they join NATO. And one more thing: It is a little interesting to look back on Greek history and compare these two things: The four hundred years of slavery under the Turkish yoke, where then the whole world recognized that part of the Ottoman Empire was Greece. Did we Greeks ever recognize it? We have shed blood for homeland and freedom and made our nation a Greek state. For the same reason, we should never think, not to do, in favour of the solution to the Skopje name-maker with this appalling, brilliant agreement. But you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, would very much like to give me an explanation. We both agree that we disagree with the Treaty of Ambassadors which is coming to sign. ANALY and New Democracy will agree that we disagree with the agreement. But we also have to agree that we disagree with something else, with the term "Macedonia" in the complex name, which we fully refuse, and you would always discuss the resolution of the name of Skopje provided that the word "Macedonia" in the complex name. And that's one truth, but you don't say it, you hide it. We would therefore have become heroes if, in your opinion, when your motion of censure came in, we voted in favour of it. You know what? You say that we would have guaranteed our re-entry to the House. So, in front of any party benefit if we accept that your argument is right, we project patriotic benefit, we project the national benefit, because we love our country and love for our country is not to allow Skopje to cheat on our history. Love toward the country is not to Skopje to allow our national identity to be usurped. Love towards home is to prevent them from mapping us to Thessaloniki, talking about Macedonian language and Macedonian ethnicity. This is true love for homeland and I am no more patriot than you. But I must point out that there is a difference between true love and hypocritical love. So plundering, which is being attempted against our national history, will be recorded as a top despoil. Do we have a National Bank? We do. Do we have a national football game? We do. Do we have a basketball team? We do. Only national history doesn't mean some to have, because these people decided we shouldn't be a nation. We are all reluctant to speak in defence of Greece. We are trying to make it understand that our objectives must be adapted to Greece's objectives and not the national objectives of adapting to our individual or party objectives. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should like to ask you, Mr President, to be indifferent. The Prime Minister also mentioned how apostates are the ones throwing a government, not the ones supporting it. But when those who support it were thrown at the authorities of the group who willingly belonged to them, then what characterization suits them for their behaviour? The reason, to be clear, has to be rectified. So the precise and correct definition is precisely this, ‘apostates’.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, make an exception. I need to talk. I won't be long. Give me your tolerance. In half a minute of tolerance you notice me for the second time. I do not want to remind you how many people have reached 50% and 60% and have exceeded their predetermined and predicted time. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u133	And I remind you that you have the privilege of twelve minutes, when all your other colleagues have seven minutes. So I have a little obligation to take care of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much for your suggestion. I respect this, but let me tell you that I too have the luck or the misfortune to be a Parliamentary representative and to speak more than seven minutes. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the role of the Independent Greeks in the political life of the place is much more critical, complex and decisive, contrary to what is written and said by the majority of militant media - information. That is why we are accepting ruthless warfare, that is why we accept the fires of the parties and those who do not want to see ANELs as a regulator of developments. And I'm explaining. The government is asking for the vote of confidence. Why is it now? Why is it right now? Just a few weeks ago, the government voted in fact for a vote of confidence in the vote on the state budget, a budget that we Independent Greeks voted in favour of, and with this vote we basically voted for a vote of confidence in the government's drafting of the content of the 2019 budget. So we have arrived in the first fortnight of the new year and everything is overthrown. Why is the government now asking for a vote of confidence? Because we Independent Greeks have declared that we are withdrawing our trust from the government's structure and thus supporting it. And we did it why? Why do we not support the Ambassadors' agreement, which the government is prepared to vote on. That is why we are withdrawing our trust, which is why we are no longer supporting the form of government. And all of a sudden, where for three and a half years SYRIZA has had the first reason for governance as the largest government partner, now with the withdrawal of ANLEs things are changing and our role is confirmed. Role catalytic as to the evolution of events. Role regulating political developments and a historic role in the country's attempt to end the long economic crisis. And this, because without our support and participation, there could not be this political cooperation that managed to get Greece out of the memoranda. However, our role does not stop here. The Independent Greeks continue and shape political developments. Withdrawal from the government's structure, we provoked the current process and led the Prime Minister to seek a vote of confidence in the government. We arrive at another moment when the Independent Greeks are entitled to and it is indeed the necessary good thing in a government that started four years ago and I will tell you why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Colleague, we're at sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u136	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because we do help with all our powers, because we supported and co-formulated those political decisions that improve the daily lives of the citizens and breathe the weakest who lay the foundations for a better tomorrow. However, we have reached the end of this route, because we must remain faithful to our principles, to our commitments to the Greek people, and because this national issue is a red line for us, inaccessible and since there is a direct link between the vote of confidence in the government by voting in favour of the Ambassadors' agreement, we disagree and vote against both procedures. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the Independent Greeks have shown that we are the ones who express the voice of the people who oppose the granting of the name "Macedonia".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u138	And I conclude with our slogan, Mr President: 'We are many, we are independent, we are Greek'. And you can be sure that there are many who remain against the major national issue. We remain opposed and remain united against ratification of the Prespecies Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-eight students and students and four teachers from the General Lymionis Argolidas High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Psariano has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. I welcome from Step by step the children and hope they will get better than us at all levels. I'm forgetting the Chiprocats. I'm completely leaving that trucker, it's half done. We are at the end of 2014 and we have a government of Samarovenizels, national traitors, merckelists, germanolides, dolphins, Tsolacoglou, Quisling, etc. So we have the Samarovenizelos, and Venizelos takes the PASOK and leaves the government. He leaves a few Members of Parliament, but Samaras also collects something scams from other parties and holds the "151". What would happen here in this poor country, which was burnt and dissolved, without such phenomena of parliamentary diversion and shame? What would have happened? Venizelos is leaving with his Party, with the stinking Pasok, but leaves a few MPs and with some other left-wing scrubs, from all parties, Samaras holds the 151. What would have happened here in this country, can you tell me? We are living an unprecedented incident of diversion in the country's parliamentary history. It has never been done before by a government based on two parties, one leaving and leaving some caravans, the two who are ministers, but the two who will become ministers tomorrow - not to say which positions, etc. - it does not matter, it may not happen, you do not know what happens - it does not erase them, in order not to lose the five and the Parliamentary Group. He then translates the "Hatizapanay", uh, Fokas, and makes a sure penny, so now we expect to see who's going to delete from the two, Zourari or Papachristopoulos? These things haven't happened either to Lucky Luke and O'Timmins and O'Hara or Asterix or nowhere. There's no such thing as that. There isn't! Is it shocking to see how much progress has been made in this country, in which we have become accustomed to the poison in small instalments and are the average citizen very relaxed 'all right, the previous ones were better'? And something like that. We are in front of this phenomenon. A government of apostates with 145 solid MPs of a Party and six apostates moved from their Party, supporting a government not to collapse, four of the ANELs and one of the Potami, one of the New Democracy and one of the previous ones who had left before the Leventes, what they are called, that is, seven. And now we hold strong 151 and go for the destinies of the tribe, say, proud. We're really proud as the first time left, I'm not talking about it! After we got rid of the right-wing weights that some of us were kicking under the tables and chairs, saying, when we're gonna get rid of them, now we're going to make the Central aeronautics with the winter gathering of social-centered farmkeepers at the Music House with the patron and with 20 buzzers superstitiously, without having become absolutely anything. Twenty guys who were among others to protest, bouzoud them normally, while for years they were opening heads, eating wood. What "irregular" sounded like, what "cut", what "how much did you get to vote for Stavros Dimas?"! I and President Lykoudis were one of those victims who were beaten and spit at us. Others ate fish at the taverns in the head, others were opening up in the street, for we voted Stavros Dimas for president and prevented the rise of the Left in the government. And we were "closed" and "irreversible", "sold in pieces". Today’s Prime Minister shouted out of the House, ringing his hand and other companions, you will not dare to leave your homes, you will not be able to go to your villages and your districts. "In Wade hangers", "mercanists", "dollars", "sold cuts". And we were hitting hands here and showing people. We made names and said they vote for the Dimas and prevent and show. We were giving names! Now they come out of some terrible posters, targeting condolence MPs in Thessaloniki, Triantafylides, Skoufa - what do they call them - all of them, Bolaris and the others, and they say "Solded, you will sell our Macedonia"? It's a trissatholic phenomenon. We all condemn it in the most extreme way. It's a sad phenomenon, and we all have to stop it here together, because we're in an undeclared civil war and we're gonna be slaughtered here, we're gonna get killed. We must stop this, and the Prime Minister and his comrades and condolences, who started this misery, showing and targeting people, are now weeping for these disgusting posters and for a stupid Pagocratic, Kostas Pagocratis. I've taken four letters and a half anonymity, with a hidden message, 'will find you in a ditch, you vote for the Ambassadors' agreement, which I have said for a long time that I have not voted for, and I have explained why. And I insist that this agreement should not be passed. We will discuss this and I will tell you why and I will argue on the Prespecies Agreement. The deported Panos Kammenos said once and for all 'the Spetses Agreement' because he is often there. I am in favour of the Fish Agreement, to say that. So I want to say about the Prespecies, about the Prespecies Agreement, we'll see you tomorrow. Monday, Tuesday we'll see you and vote. I hope that we will close this division here that some people have been electorally proclaiming from before 2012, from before the previous elections, "or we or they are to finish them before we are done with all this." You remember everything very well. And posters had come out, no one denounced them, "or we or them, hang them in Wude and the rest!" We must close this here, regardless of whether we vote or do not vote for bills, legislative proposals, or how we debate them, at which level. I hope that we will bring the tons down and start talking to human beings as a serious, normal, European country and not as a post-Soviet 'cassapalidian', which has tradition in clientism and athletics, and now it has run away and has passed the short and rotometers and is 'blue-blue-blue', completely 'blue-blue-blue'. Colleagues and friends and dear patriots, we have to close this thing, because neither the syllables are giving solutions to the referendums, as you know, because you are making them backwards, giving them solutions because the countries are not governed in such a way. And I would like to remind you that the great contributors to the 'House!', to return the Army from Asia Minor, cleared Eleftherios Venizelos, who did not even get a MP out. And then the others came and sent the Army to Adana and Ankara, while the slogan and syllables were "Okade!", to turn the Army back and the country, the Hellenism of Asia Minor was destroyed by symphony and mobilizations, with which some "danakers" of power and propaganda of sport, supposedly nationalists and supposedly patriots led to a great catastrophe. And then we always, after every disaster, showed the other half and all the strangers together.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u141	Mr. Fisherman, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, I am done, thank you very much. This has to end here and now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much. My colleague, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u144	The scenes of infinitely good, literally living in the House and monitoring the Greek people, the 'hard' - in or out of introductory - confrontation, the 'extreme' - in or out of introductory expressions, the 'depression' - again in or out of introductory terms - as some people suggest, the opposition of Parliament, which is also raised by the urban media and the various media, the gambling, the political marriages, the consensual divorces, the moves of MPs are really something new in the urban political system? Does anyone read history? It's not new at all. What the people need to understand is that this is how the urban system has always operated both in Greece and abroad. And let some awakens let them go, that we are an exception throughout the world and all that is being put forward. What does it matter to us? It is important to make use of the oldest and recent historical experience of the working class and the Greek people, and to realise that all this harsh confrontation of the urban parties is not about his life and his future - because this is doomed by this system to be a continuation on exploitation, poverty and anguish - but it is mainly about - and this is - the interests of the dominant bourgeoisie, it is about the management of a barbaric system, a rotten and inhuman system that has been historically overcome. Yes or no? Can he give a solution to the problems, the needs of the people? Oh, no! And it gets worse and more and more dangerous. Beyond the time gap, this situation applies - and I say again and mainly about Greece - throughout the history of urban management, since the 1920s, in the 1950s, in the 1960s, and in the Cultivation, of course, beyond one thing I have shown, since the 1940s, when the people were prepared, they were ready and deserved to take the power and united all these political forces to break him up with the help of the British and American imperialists. Therefore, this harsh conflict has always created large parties, smaller supports, the dissolution of large parties - boulders - rename large parties - see, the Centre Association, PASOK, SYRIZA today, here the succession - and with what these controversies were related to? They didn't have a base? Of course, they had a base. They were based on the interests of different parts of the bourgeoisie and of course associated with different imperialist centres. But the whole conflict, like today, had a constant always, was within the limits. And what were those limits? The interests of capital and capitalist system and, of course, always under the flag of imperialist organisations - whether NATO was then called, either a EEC renamed to the European Union or a Western European Union - all international imperialist centres. So, historically and today, two policies are conflicting - and let the rest go, masks have already fallen for everyone - and a policy of capitalist barbarism and the policy of the JRC, which has fought beyond weaknesses and mistakes and is struggling at the forefront of its overthrow. Has this changed today? Because here we heard that in 2015 there was a big political overthrow that SYRIZA came out to power. What changed as Charilaus said? The violinist, but the hawaii remains the same. Are we wrong? What dilemma puts today - something very well known, of course - SYRIZA, on the other hand, is New Democracy answering? 'Progress or maintenance', this is the stake - it says - and today, but mainly for the next elections. So we ask: what is progress? Being with NATO? Be with American imperialism and say Mr. Friend that American imperialism is a danger, and Trump is a danger and the Prime Minister is saying "the evil good Trump"? Is that progress? Join the murderous hand of imperialism, the ranger of the capitalist system worldwide, with those who are dived in the blood of tens of millions of people throughout mankind, to impose the interests of capital? Is that progress? So where do you and everyone together here? Does anyone disagree with NATO, with imperialist domination that ensures capitalist barbarism? Oh, no! You're all part of it! So where is the ‘progress or maintenance’ dilemma? Progress means "outside NATO", independent of the country's policy and wealth in the hands of the workers. Really, how dare you speak for the left, for the left party? How dare you say that you were once against NATO? You have also had a false signal that is also under discussion, the 'NATO dissolution'. So, tell us, at a previous meeting, someone - I don't remember who - said it was SYRIZA's programme position! Mercy! Christians would say "Christ and Apostle, Lord!" Are you in favour of dismantling NATO? Are you still saying that? Let one come out and support it! Let the Prime Minister himself come out, even though he said election clearly in the interview that Greece belongs to NATO and is not questioned. Of course you're not! How can you be? Here, for example, simple, today, the Presidencies' Agreement! Why is the Embassy Agreement going on - and leave the rest of it - fast-tracked? Because it is a demand for the Americans and NATO to join the 'former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia' or 'North Macedonia', as it is called, in NATO. And that's what you're serving. So, are you in favour of dismantling, strengthening NATO? Why did you vote in favour of Montenegro? Are you in favour of dismantling? Why have you voted on all the decisions - terrible decisions - on nuclear use, on the first nuclear blow, on what you want? Why are you supporting all NATO's policies that are warfighting, warfare, going to Russia's surroundings and creating explosive situations everywhere or entering the Middle East? You think people don't see that? And that's all you're supporting!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u145	Are these imperialists?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u146	I'll go on with other things. Don't tickle me. I'll say more. Do you participate, or not, in all the aggressive NATO exercises aimed at Russia and other countries? Not that Russia is good today - it is not a Soviet Union - but it creates such a climate. How much does the Greek people, who came out, Mr. Vitsas, pay us for 13.5%, just for these exercises and for the naval weapons? He pays billions of euros! How much did two F-16 cost in Norway? Who was the opponent in Norway? Turkey or Russia and other countries? And now you're talking about a left-wing government? In fact, there are some who, by way of exception, say about imperialism, but all of their politics is with imperialism. So, tell us how the 'progress or maintenance' dilemma is translated here? Progress is against this. The maintenance's with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u147	And they're against it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u148	Who are they against? It's not against it. You don't listen to them, it looks like you didn't even hear their story. On Judas, things were too high! Don't do that! You must be ashamed to say "And they are against"! Not to open my mouth! You must be ashamed here to say it or just insinuate it when the JRC speaks! We're not sold out or worshipped! In the dilemma of history that says "submition to the correlation of forces and barbarity or overthrow" we say "reverse"! You "hello"! Such a humiliation! Tell the world and explain what you're doing today! Multilateral foreign policy - in other words, we are being mocked rawly - along with the Americans, along with the imperialists! Greece with a US base! And you're talking about a multi-faceted policy! What multifaceted policy? Piat said it. The best relations between Greece and the United States in history are today. And on a Trump, which you have denounced - and so it is - for a extreme right and which Ku Klux Klan has supported. But the people have experience of what NATO is and what its history is. He knows it from Yugoslavia next door. What are you talking about today? He's going to NATO! In other words, those who have cut bits, who have murdered the people of Yugoslavia, who have created this whole situation and will have security in the region! Hey, how can I say that? I don't want to say words! You ask, then, that the wolf keeps the sheep. And there's still a great deal of salt-corrosion to be used for the future. And it has already opened the problem in Albania! And you say to the Greek people, to the workers, to the peoples of the earth who have been battered for many years 'we choose NATO as a security factor'! The word 'dream' is very little. The second dilemma is in the economy. ‘Progress or maintenance’; is the dilemma for the next day. Of course, the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, said that now the dilemma is not a memorial or an antimony, but the dilemma is who will manage the next day when we come out of the memorials. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] But to do a spin backwards. There was the memorial-antimony dilemma, and so the powers were separated? We say 'no'. How does that prove? From SYRIZA's own policy. If it was "antimony", he would tear both of them, as he said! But instead, he incorporated them and brought in a third, which both New Democracy and all other urban parties voted for! And today they're doing that they didn't understand what they voted for! Like they didn't know what they were voting for! And today they appear saying "We wouldn't vote" and "We had to ensure the country's position". That's right. The sanctuaries and the loyal ones! Don't happen and rub the capitalist system itself. So we're entering a new era. And that's the dilemma? A time of exiting the memoirs? But, well, who do you work for a little gambler? Outside the memorials by applying all the laws of the three Memorandums? So, what's this trick? What's that logic? This is what New Democracy agrees with and says things now. He agrees. You just took her bread. He was entering the OAED line now, in unemployment, and that is why he is shouting and protesting so much! Do we get out of the memos? But to whom do you say this, when you have all these memorial laws that ensure the collapse of the working class and the folk layers and they literally create a paradise for the capitalist profitability of big capital? That is why all the imperialist centres congratulate you. Now what happened? Has the European Union changed? You said that SYRIZA is coming and the European Union is changing. He changed to the worst. Congratulating you on what it means? That you're doing the job for them. Has Merkel changed, as did German capitalism? Oh, no. Who changed? You have changed and done what social democracy has historically done. When the system goes round, when the traditional urban parties go bankrupt, then the reserves, as Anelli said, that can go unnoticed. Greece, it says, is standing. We did this to get her up. But, well, I'll say a clue. Over 35% live below the poverty threshold. This upright Greece you dream of? So you say that Greece is standing, with one in three Greeks standing below the poverty threshold, and others growing up when you say that Greece is standing? To understand the world and the workers that they are standing up are the big businessmen, the monopolies and the American imperialism you need as the best ally. They're standing up. So, on the basis of all this, we are asking again the question 'Where is progress and where is maintenance?' There is a dilemma, a real dilemma and even more acidifies. What is needed is for the people not to buy these fairy tales and the "fly" you are giving them and presenting galantus, because at the end of the day all the urban governments would give something - they can't stand - while you get it a lot more than the other pocket. The world needs to stand up, not to fall into deception again. He's got a huge experience. All management solutions have been charged. Turns out he was a Trojan horse, all the big words. And it turns out today that you even say to him today: 'Build a Europe against fascism', etc. Who gives birth to fascism? The capitalist system itself doesn't give birth to him? What serves the fascism and fascism of the Golden Dawn here, which makes the belligerent and the patriot talking about Macedonia, when Chaus Anton signed an agreement with Sirakov, when he handed over the heads of the EPPON and took 700,000, the eulogy of Bulgarian fascists? What are they serving? Have you heard anything say about large capital, about monopolies? Oh, no. It's a spear's edge. So don't tell us about the European Union. He showed it all. And the European Union is an imperialist, aggressive, anti-people union and will never change its character unless people break it up when socialism comes. We therefore call on the workers and the progressive people, in addition to the disagreements they may have with the JRC, to assess their consistency, attitude to problems, the fact that it has not solved and entered various management temptations of the urban system, which have entered the struggles. And what you're giving, if it wasn't for the JRC, with the power it has and the action in the mass movement, you wouldn't even give them. So he should come with us to support us, so that the road can open, to fight to stop what's worse, to go to the counterattack and to go where it's worthwhile, to get what the worker deserves. And these aren't the crumbs. It's all because he produces wealth. And that will be, whether you like it or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister's decision to call for a vote of confidence was a clear position. And always in politics, clean positions and solutions are the right positions and solutions. It is a democratic decision and at the same time politically responsible. It is a democratic decision, because the Prime Minister, with absolute respect for the Constitution and without resorting to possibilities which he could also have from the Constitution for the Government to continue, calls democratically and constitutionally for the National Representation, for renewal and confirmation of the government's declared commitment. It is also political responsibility, as at the same time as at a time that is crucial to our country, which sets its course after the memoranda, at this new era for institutional, economic and social reconstruction and the prospect of the country, and in a difficult and constantly changing European geopolitical environment, it needs a stable government, without ambiguity and without doubt as to the declared. But, above all, ladies and gentlemen, the vote of confidence is an absolute political vote. For certainly the way out of the memoranda, the way it has been done and, above all, the policy that has been implemented in recent months since the exit from the memoranda has not been and is neither taken for granted nor taken for granted. It has to do with specific political options. Since Greece has been able - since August - to have a clear exit from the memoranda, gradually regaining its own sovereignty and gradually, as a country, as a government, as a parliament, we are regaining the possibility of political choices, which is also at the heart of democracy itself. Therefore, the exit from the memorandum and the way it was chosen to be done, with the specific debt arrangement, with a specific net exit, without a credit line - which some others from the Accreditation, invested and supported - and with the safeguarding of pensions, has to do with a political choice, which is not taken into account if it was another government, which would have led to the exit from the memorandums. The political choices from August onwards, in this new period that we are currently experiencing, the policies to vote and implement the economic and social measures announced at the IGC - and at this time, they are being implemented - the political choices to move forward in the next period to the increase of the minimum wage - were already restored to collective bargaining - the concrete plans for strengthening public administration - tomorrow we launch the draft law in the competent committee - and the organisation of recruitments on the basis of needs, with a priority targeted and budgetary coverage for health and education, which the Chief of Staff has refused to confirm in the previous days, the political choice to move forward with the democratic and social reform of the Constitution and for reasons of transparency and for the benefit of our country's national interests and the stability of our Balkans and our entire region, as well as the change of public policy and responsibility. Decisions at the heart of the political dimension of confidence. It is now happening everywhere - both in Europe and in our country - a progressive pole with new features, based on the context. This has nothing to do with party geography, enclosures of spaces and, much more, with personal choices and alliances. It has to do with deep ideological and political traits in our new period. And it concerns Europe as a whole, where you see the agonizing effort to bring together such a progressive, democratic front against the 'black spectrum', which is being deceived above Europe at this time, extreme right and neoliberalism. We see this need in all the countries, as we see a reorientation of the political scene, which you do not have a rush to define alone and to rebuild, in relation to personal movements of officials or the electorate. It has deep political and social characteristics what is currently happening. It has evolved throughout the period of crisis and is now growing in the new era in the face of the new challenges. That's why we don't just see it in our country. It is about the programme proposal that needs such a progressive bloc, that there should be such a pole for the next day for the country's institutional, economic and social reconstruction. We also see it in Italy, in Spain and Portugal, in France with the turbulence that is taking place when there is no clear political signal in the leadership and we see it in Germany itself. And that, of course, shows that it is an overall political and social need for what we live in. So let us make a distinction here, and I think we should be clear. It is another thing to highlight two poles that are practically once again, since politics is entering the forefront and in our country at last, now that we are gradually liberating from the Memorandum orders and obligations and there is no longer the alibi of the Memorandum Oneway for anyone. And here, of course, precisely because the progressive and conservative neoliberal and right-wing policies are emerging, we now see the New Democracy coming and proposing - in its own way - another type of memorandum in a programming manner. We see it as characteristic - to refer to my area - the issues of public administration and recruitment, as we are talking about recruitment. We are talking about the need to support and meet public needs so that our country can have a public sector that is at the heart of democratic functioning, productive reconstruction and the social state. That's what we believe and that's where we're targeting. In social and development policy, we now clearly distinguish different policies. Another thing, therefore, is the emergence of the two poles in Europe and in our country, and another artificial polarization and tension that has been cultivated throughout this period, which we saw yesterday in Parliament. Because artificial polarization is not about ideas, arguments and ideology. It is about an artificial intensity that is intended not to ultimately be discussed on the political issues and arguments to distinguish proposals, but to be intensified and iso-democratic anti-governmentism. Artificial polarization is becoming dangerous, to the extent that we now see people, opinions and MPs targeted in the worst possible way. And because it has been said before that they have been done in the past, this should in no way lead to reasonable setbacks. Such methods cannot be repaid. It is something that each democrat should be disapproved of, regardless of whether he defines himself progressively or conservatively. I believe that the Members of the New Democracy too, with a democratic conscience, are condemning - and they should expressly condemn - such phenomena that they appear to be behind and guided. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a time when precisely because the policy comes to the fore, so the vote of confidence has political characteristics. You will allow me to make a personal reference - although I am not used to it - because I feel that it has a political dimension. Personally, like other Members, we have previously disagreed with the attitude of our parties. In 2012, I resigned from the Minister of European Affairs and took a clear position on the second memorandum. I would remind you that at that stage it has been at the forefront of the abolition of collective bargaining, the abolition of labour rights and, of course, the minimum wage, beyond everything else. I was deleted from my party, who served for seventeen years, thirty years. In fact, in the 2012 elections I stayed in my party because I considered it a matter of responsibility. I did not go anywhere else, I did not knock on a door - I want to be clear - because I was a party secretary, and I thought it was a matter of moral order. I finally left in October 2012, although I had been deleted since February, because then I again disagreed with the new measures that came from the government at the time. For six years I have chosen not to be active political. I have now returned to the reshape in August in this new phase. I want to make a personal statement, because I respect my old comrades. I've never talked negatively about anyone, because I'm politically speaking. I hope that there will also be more progress in the future. I feel justified at the time when I was talking to you in this Chamber where I had disagreed in 2012, because this government, in which I participate - and the Minister of Labour, Mrs Ahtsioglou - has reinstated the collective negotiations and will bring the minimum wage to an increase. I feel like I'm a political vindication. Policies are therefore important and the political content of the vote is important. It is a vote of confidence that concerns our political decision over the next few months, so that this transition, after the memorial era, can actually have these specific features and the priorities I have mentioned. However, it is also a wider perspective that our country needs, and I believe that any progressive, left-wing human being, either from the left, from the socialist area, or from democrats - liberal people who believe in this progressive direction - deserves to come to dialogue, meet, go beyond dividing lines, prejudices, perhaps even bitterness of the past, to look at the future. Therefore, without fear and passion each Member and every Member of Parliament at this juncture, without taking into account the threats, the uproots, the targeting, which we have to condemn, must be politically condemned, with a sense of responsibility, since he believes in a progressive follow-up to a progressive country and a vote of confidence in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Minister. The Minister has the floor, Mrs Efi Ahtsoglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u152	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this evening the House is called upon to make an extremely critical decision, to decide whether to support this government in order to continue and complete its work and its constitutional mandate by October 2019. And that is the very specific and clear question from which no one can escape. The question is clear. He's asking for a clear position. And precisely because it is so clear and so critical, I think it is worth this debate and the time that I have to talk about the work of this government over the last four years, with reference to the commitments, of course, which we have made, I think, only then can you assess the correctness of a project, if it can be compared with the commitments made - and what exactly is the purpose of continuing this work. I think this also recommends respect for Parliament at long last, asking for its trust, clarifying your next actions and your intentions. Four years ago we launched a great effort with four top commitments to Greek society. First of all, let's get the country out of the memorials. Secondly, we must do this, not indifferent to the social consequences, but by protecting the most vulnerable social strata. Thirdly, to lay the foundations for the next period for a fair growth focusing on decent work and a stable social state. Fourthly, to take the country out of the international decency and devaluation regime that had arrived in the previous period, by stepping up its position on the international soil. I think today, four years later, no one can see in these commitments that we have been loyal and committed. Perhaps not all of the objectives have been achieved in full, but we cannot recognise that, on the one hand, we have served them faithfully and consistently, on the other hand, that the country is in a completely different treaty than the one at the end of 2014 in both the economic and social protection sector, the political independence and the international position that it is recognised. These four years, from 2015 to today - often against international claims - we have achieved things that are now considered data, but I do not think they were considered so much data before. We have finally and irrevocably closed the vicious circle of the memorials. We have managed to regulate public debt, effectively breathing, alleviating the country for many decades. We have protected the most vulnerable at the outset by the law to deal with the humanitarian crisis, with immediate measures, - rent subsidy, food card and free electricity to many people who were facing the range of the humanitarian crisis at the time - but also with all these measures which were then incorporated into an innovative programme of enormous social relief, the Social Income of Solidarity. We upgraded public health and extended its coverage to our insecure fellow citizens. We have for the first time created social protection structures and mechanisms that have traditionally evolved from this place, such as all the institutions that we have set ourselves to deal with child poverty. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] We have literally carried all available resources into suffocating - budgetary - environment in the area of so-called'social welfare','social solidarity', as we called it, tripling the social welfare budget, social solidarity over these years of the extremely limited budgets for the country and bringing work to the centre. We helped reduce unemployment by about eight percentage points, create more than three hundred thousand jobs and more than three hundred seventy-five thousand people, our fellow citizens, who were unemployed until they were unemployed, to find a job. We restored the public social security system, which we had found since the coup d'état of New Democracy and PASOK to the limits of collapse and bankruptcy. You will allow me here to open a reference to insurance because I have heard Mr Mitsotakis' recent interview put for this either deliberately distorting reality, or - let me take the good example - because of extremely bad information, with completely incorrect information. Mr. Mitsotakis said that the SYRIZA Government made seventeen pension cuts. First of all, I would like to say that until a while ago we were told that we had done twenty one. So the fact that from the twenty-one we went to seventeen is rather a good step. Nevertheless, I would like to say to him that in these seventeen things, which his partners have probably recommended to him to say that they were pension cuts, the New Democracy measures such as changing the calculation of contributions for freelance professionals, changing the calculation of the fictitious years, or even the changes to the retirement age limits voted by the New Democracy. But, apart from the alchemys, there are also some events that are stubborn, for the insurance at least. The insurance period 2010-2014 was characterised by the twelve successive horizontal cuts made in pensions, it was delivered with a huge deficit of EUR 1.1 billion and with four hundred thousand unpaid pension benefits. This is a fact. The other fact is that this government rescued the Public Social Security System, turned its deficit into surplus, laid down uniform and transparent rules for all insured and pensioners, has now reduced all the free professionals after the last regulations we have done and - something that we often forget - it has also incorporated farmers into the Public Social Security System - I mean the Single Social Security Agency - so that they too can receive a decent pension. Obviously, this government has insisted on protecting pensions paid, against the persistence of the International Monetary Fund, but also against various 'willing' within the country, where the cancellation of the cuts was likely to break down their opposition record. In fact, not only the pensions have been divested and the people paid have been protected, but six hundred and twenty thousand pensioners see an increase in their pensions as of 1 January 2019. I would like to say another thing at this point, because Mr Mitsotakis said again in this same interview, that the new law, the insurance law of 2016, leads to cut-off pensions, 'up to 40% or 50%', if I remember correctly, he said. I will not go back to what the previous pension system gave, and what the new system gives, to see that it is precisely the data, the average pension before and now, but I shall refer to an argument which I think is reasonable: the reason why the six hundred and twenty thousand pensioners today see an increase in their pensions is precisely because of the new way of calculating pensions. From 1 January 2019, all pensions - and old and before 2016 - are calculated on the basis of the new ways that the system set up. The fact that there are six hundred and twenty thousand pensioners receiving increases demonstrates exactly that the new system leads to higher pensions for the low pensioners than the ones given by the former system. I think it is a reasonable and extremely reasonable argument, which anyone who understands can understand why Mr Mitsotakis' claim is being rejected. I would like to close the parentheses for Mr Mitsotakis' position on insurance and return to the work of the government, as I have said, and the risk of today's vote. We have set ourselves as a compass of our efforts, the improvement of the income and the position of the workers. Since 21 August we have restored collective bargaining in the country, which means that tens of thousands of workers, covered by a collective agreement, already see increased wages, already receive increased wages in very critical sectors of the economy such as tourism. In a series of legislation, which we have introduced in the House, we are resetting the landscape in the labour market, because, obviously, it has not reached a satisfactory level - shielding workers' rights to unpaid work, for the first time - rules on the protection of workers working in contractors by setting - for the first time - rules on the observance of working hours and overtime. Let me point out to you here that, once we have passed these rules on hours and hours of overtime, from one year to the next, we have a 230% increase in companies that declare overtime and overworking. More than doubled the number of enterprises declaring overtime or overworking over a year. This, I think, clearly testifies to what was happening before, how many hours of work were lost and what has happened since these rules were laid down, how many hours of work are either given to people to come back when they finish their hours at home, or are paid - as is due - overtime. In the past few months, we have also taken other measures to demonstrate that this exit from the memoranda was not a formal process, but it was a transition to a new period of rights such as the measures to reduce HPAI, the reduction of insurance contributions for the two-five thousand free professionals, self-employed people and farmers. We have allocated a third consecutive year social dividend and voted for the first time after ten years in this place, an expansion budget, that is to say, a budget that has no containment measures, but has measures to strengthen the large social majority either by social benefits or by reductions, tax relief and tax relief. And, of course, with the Prespecies Agreement, we have laid the foundations for resolving an historic flaw that has been afflicting the two countries for decades. We have laid the foundations for opening a new page in the relations between the two peoples, with the axes of friendship, the beneficial cooperation between the two peoples, fully respecting the national line established in the country for decades for the nanology. And above all, I think, thanks to this agreement, it is that the country's international position has been upgraded and emerged in a pillar of stability and peace in the Balkans and the wider region. These are some of the contagious works we leave behind. And, of course, the issue is, above all, what we have in front of us. We have critical social interventions in front of us, with a clear political and institutional profile. We have trained them sufficiently to ensure that every Member of Parliament knows what we are talking about and take his decision in particular, knowing specifically what the continuation of this government's work is. What it supports, anyone who today gives a vote of confidence to the government. Anyone who gives a vote of confidence to the government today, supports the increase in the minimum wage, supports the abolition of the shameful underpaid wage for young people. Anyone who gives a vote of confidence to the government today supports the establishment of a framework for the relief of tens of thousands of our fellow citizens who have accumulated burdens and debts in the years of the crisis and will now be able to regulate their debts. Anyone who gives a vote of confidence supports the establishment of a comprehensive framework for the protection of first homes, an overall housing policy framework - for the first time at the place - which will enable low and middle incomes to respond to pressing housing needs, whether those concern rent or the first home loan. The vote of confidence in the government supports the recruitment of fifteen thousand teachers in our schools. It supports the development of the process of constitutional reform, so that another five years will not be lost, so that we better shield the parliamentary processes of protecting democratic institutions from the extra-institutional decision-making centres, we can abolish the law 'no responsibility for Ministers', which, I think, makes every democratic citizen of this country angry. The vote of confidence in this government supports the government to move forward with the agreement on the rationalisation of relations between the State - Church. On these issues, today's vote of confidence specialises in the continuation of this government's work. We have said that we want this continuation, this integration, to be implemented by clean solutions and not by ad hoc majorities. I think it is clear that with these measures I have mentioned, we could ensure that a majority in Parliament is included in a case-by-case. But the Prime Minister didn't want that. At a moment, I think, of great political honesty and purity has called for a clear corridor, a confidence in the government as a whole for its next steps, so that it does not question at any time whether this government has the declared confidence of Parliament. Therefore, what I have just said is the very concrete steps which summarise the phrase 'continuity of the work and completion of the work of this government'. We ask this House to vote on the vote of confidence so that it can proceed until the end of its term of office. And I am sure that this confidence today will be confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Minister, for the time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, twenty-three American students and one of the National University of New York. Welcome to the Greek Parliament. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Saridis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Madam President. Greeks, Greeks, hatred and division are the true enemies of our country. Hate and dissatisfaction are the most serious danger to our Greece. This is the first time that I have chosen from this step to address you first and not my colleagues, that is to say the people you have sent in here to represent you and decide for you by their vote. I appeal to you citizens, because as much as I regret the image presented by the Greek Parliament, I fear that I too may make a mistake, get carried away and follow the path of hatred and dissent. If I chose to address the political forces, I don't know if I could restrain myself and maybe I could open my mouth and start asking questions. Questions, which, under the responsibility of the political world, have been unanswered for many years, while they have been on the lips and in the minds of all Greek citizens. Questions that surely would lead to wild situations, if some dare to answer them. Because the answers that all the political forces have in their pocket for every question, for every reasonable question from the public, are such that they either intend to fall asleep or aim to confuse. Always, but always, they lead to hatred, they cause itching, they favour discord. Greek women, Greeks you deserve to be better represented than the one you are watching in this Chamber. It's not the real image of Greece. That's not the truth of Greece. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I come to you. Do you feel proud? Can you sleep quietly at night? Are you all right with your conscience? To you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are the hundreds of forty-five Members - who I admit, you have not changed your mind about the scepticism and you are indeed consistent with what you believed in this particular issue - I ask you: How many of the Greeks who voted for you in September 2015 knew what you intend to do about the scepticism? How many of those who chose you as the best managers of the memorials knew that you'd proceed to these actions that you've taken and are invited to live on these days? You, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, finally understand, yes or no, what does the phrase of political stability mean? Do you realize that early elections are equal to political instability? You've been asking for elections for three years. Don't you have anything else to suggest, in other words, costly, beyond the election? For the sake of the place, do you do that? Tell us, what do you care most about this government falling at any cost to the country or not giving the name of our Macedonia? Answer this question at last at last. Do you give it the name yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u155	If he falls, the name won't be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u156	I would like to ask you the same question, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, that you have changed your name, but you have not changed your name. And you have very big carpets there in PASOK. Because what you're hiding under these carpets couldn't fit anywhere else. Why have you not denounced, ladies and gentlemen of the Change Movement, never the Interim Agreement with Skopje? Why did you never report the daily violations of the interim agreement? That is what Mr Simitis will answer, and not threaten us to say again in the memoranda. Do you, ladies and gentlemen of the River, understand what you say to the Greeks? You tell them that your attitude to this crucial national theme will be decided on in accordance with internal, micro-group developments. "If Mr. Dannelis leaves, we will vote against. If Mr Dannelis does not leave, we will be voting in favour." Spyros, I disagree with you - and you know it - on the issue of the Prespecies Agreement. But what they do to you and your family, I condemn it from the depths of my heart and I will stand by you. The gruesome and enthusiasts that attack you are attacking both me and every democrat who respects himself. As far as the Independent Greeks, until yesterday's co-chairmen and today's opposition are concerned, there is no global comment I could make. I only declare my respect to the JRC. I disagree with you almost everything, Mr. Delia. My respect for you has increased now that I have seen things through this Chamber, that is, as a Member of Parliament. For the Golden Dawn, I only have one word to say. Your presence in the Greek Parliament alone proves the size of the crimes against democracy committed by the forces of the democratic arch. Greek women, Greeks you deserve better. Don't let discord and hatred destroy this country. Don't let them lure you. Those who make you fight with each other do it so you don't have time to notice how they steal you, they plunder you, they plunder you, they plunder you. Keep guard against those who are pushing you into discord. Greeks, Greeks, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting against the government proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mr. Lazarides has the floor for seven minutes. And then the parliamentary representative of the Central Association will be given the floor. Here, Mr Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Madam President. You know, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the vote of confidence is one of the top procedures, top of the government, top of Parliament, parliamentarianism and top of the top of all of us Members, because we are given the opportunity to present our views. After listening to the members of the government, we heard the President of the government, we are called upon to present our views. Once again, however, we have to do what we do in summary procedures. Seven minutes is available to each Member. Within these seven minutes it should be placed on all these issues. I'll start with some things that I'll put together as much as I can. Normally all the things that I will pass quickly should have had time to develop, either for the Eye or for the persecution of the middle class. Because we heard here a few months ago by the Minister that it was this government's choice to tax the middle-class. The middle class is the backbone of the economy and society. I'm going to make a few comments on the financial performance. Yesterday this came from the OECD. I read you the comments: Delaying the Greek economy is seen by the OECD. The OECD sees downward trends in the Greek economy for the next nine months. All the OECD prognostics are negative. As far as the Public Investment Programme is concerned, expenditure amounted to 6 billion 237 million, a reduction compared with the target. For the most part, public investment costs are reduced. In addition, payees will be asked to pay special wages and so on. I would now like to go to what concerns the Greek society, but for us in Macedonia this case of the Prespecies Agreement is a cardinal on. I have heard a number of colleagues here - and for some time now it has been said - who, in order to create impressions, say that a hundred forty countries have recognized Skopje. Ladies and gentlemen, one hundred and ninety-three countries are members of the United Nations. There is not one member in the UN who has the word "Macedonia", either in a complex name or as the word "Macedonia". There's no country in the UN. If some of them in bilateral relations chose to recognise them, that is very important. I would like to say something else, ladies and gentlemen. It is not only those who are throwing a government, apostates are also those who are being recruited to support a misguided government. These days and all this time rather, these months after the Prespecies Agreement was signed, the Skopje have violated the agreement in too many respects. There was absolutely no opposition from the government at all to the Bulgarians who, yesterday and the other day, reacted very strongly and said that they would put obstacles to the process of joining the European Union and the NATO accession process, because they said they were trying to alter history. There was no reaction from us. Ladies and gentlemen, Skopje has chosen to vote and they have rightly done so. For our part, we are not making a referendum, something that all parties want, as are the Greek people. And the Greek people must decide what will happen in this case. Take note now of what the Skopje have done in the referendum. The question that Skopje citizens were asked to answer was: 'Are you in favour of joining the European Union and NATO, accepting the agreement between the Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Greece?' That was the question the Skopje were asked to answer. Is there anywhere in the agreement a reference to "Macedonia'? There's nowhere. Do you know what he says here? It says here: "Final agreement on the resolution of disputes..." and says: "The first part, the Hellenic Republic (the First Part) and the second part, which was accepted in the United Nations, according to the UN General Assembly Resolution 47/225 of 8 July 1993 on the Second Part". That's what it's called here, and that's what it's called in the United Nations Security Council. It is not registered anywhere as "Macedonia Republic". Shouldn't the government react to that? Clearly the government had to react to this. On the other hand, the government and all these citizens who react either by syllables - I am talking about the legal ways in which they react - in any way or by going through the media, etc. It characterizes them as far-righters. This is unacceptable and makes citizens even more angry. Because when you have the overwhelming majority in favour of this agreement, over 80%, about 85%, the opposition of the citizens to this agreement is counted in Macedonia, you cannot call them far-right. Nor can you accuse peaceful citizens of reacting to and conducting peaceful rallyings, of moving from suspicious groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude with you very briefly, Madam President. I would like your tolerance for less than a minute. I have already heard a colleague who said that to become leaders or remain leaders of the Balkans, we should make these agreements. No one disagrees about our country's leading role in the Balkans, that we must all contribute to this, but not by embracing major national issues such as this. What the government has to do - and here I am closing, Madam President - will either call for elections directly and for the Greek people to decide on the fate of this agreement or for a referendum to be held. I'd like to say one last thing. No one reacted when Zafe went to vote on this unacceptable map in the background. No one reacted to the government and was exposed to all within the world. It was the 1934 Charter since the 7th Conference of the Communist International, where its President, the Bulgarian Demetrov, raised this issue, the creation of the independent state of the Aegean, which will be made up of three sections. And the Greek part, according to him, was the subspecies. I am 'no' to the request for a vote of confidence, because I believe that every vote of confidence is a backing in the hand that marks the heart of Macedonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u159	Now, as I have announced, the Parliamentary spokesman of the Centro Association, Mr Megalomustakas for twelve minutes, has the floor. Mr Marios Georgiadis will then speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but also rageously, that I have been following what has been happening in the political scene in this country in recent months, and I think it is a black period for parliamentaryism. And that is not all I say, and the Greek citizens are aware of it, who in every debate you are doing with them what they say are that we are all the same having completely depreciated politics, but politicians too, which is very sad. We cannot see what is going on in here. The reason why the Greek people have devalued everyone who is here and in general the political system is because of your government policy is because of how you legislated, which you too have been condemning for so many years, but you continue to do exactly this, is even the level that we Members are presenting within the Greek Parliament, which is very low. The images, but also the ones heard in here, are certainly not fit in this space.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u161	You're talking about yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u162	He's a regular suspect, sir. And I'll tell you why. In here the term 'prosperer' in here was heard the term 'false', the term 'thiever', the term'solder'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u163	The president tells you this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u164	Please, that's what's been heard in here. These sounded in here and please don't interrupt me. It has come up to the Step President who has said that government policy, national planning is influenced by foreign interests, namely that our political system - and I am talking about institutionally - is a product of exchange. This does not honor us and you can react as much as you like. We are the center and we are here to say the right and the bad from all sides. You're talking about distances, transcriptions. You all do the same. All the same! Almost all the sites you have taken MPs on the one hand and on the other. And SYRIZA has been taken from the Centro Association and the New Democracy has been taken and the Democratic Partnership has been taken. The same thing has happened with the river. Don't you see them? And you dare talk about distances and transcriptions? None of you should do it. Nor should he speak or accept in his place such moves and such people. Intensify polarization in every possibility you have. You want to go back to the bicommunism of the past. You want as few parties as possible within Parliament, and the Government and Civic Opposition. And when I talk about depreciation of the political system, I refer to a fact that I saw in many media and I was also sent by many of my fellow citizens, where one of your Members, who even handles the Slavs' language, was getting out with selfies stores in Parliament. Look at the means and keep an eye on the news. Like also, yesterday at 11 a.m. in plenary evening, I watched another dream fight between the Vice President of Officer Response and the Secretary of Health, where of course the level was not what you should know. So, in this debate, it has been heard that, as you say, in the scandals of CEDEFOP, Mrs Koundoura, who has also received her husband's company in which she is also a shareholder, she is also involved. What I would like to ask as a clarification is in what period of time this has happened. To answer whether it was done in SYRIZA or whether it was done in the New Democracy. However, neither one of us honors this situation. You cannot have it under your wing anymore, because she is no longer a member of the ANELs, she is a Member of your own government and a Minister of your own government. When you want to call yourself a moral political party, this does not in any way honor you, such as the New Democracy, for which, if it were in the period in which it was governed, I consider it unacceptable that this should be done, that is, one of their own people should be donated with so much money. These are images of shame. We now go to what you are asking, because we are here today in Parliament. You ask for a vote of confidence in the scout. It's directly connected, and you know it very well, and we know it. Let's see what Left and SYRIZA say, because I don't think SYRIZA is left. It has always been internationalism. I can't blame you for that. I do not agree at all. So is the JRC. They do not think it wrong to give the name and everything else in the neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u165	They are not internationalists of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u166	I talked about you, and please don't interrupt me. However, I would also like to see the position of the New Democracy and PASOK, which do not have a clear attitude on this issue. I have not heard my colleagues say clearly from this step forward that 'we will not give the name'. It was previously heard in response to Mr Saridis from the benches that if we throw them 'we will not give the name', but I would like to hear it from here, from the Step, from the official lips. The worst thing in here, however, is the attitude of the ANELs. Those who, in the summer, allowed this government, the Government of Mr Tsipras, to make the agreement with Mr Zaev, are the ones that have the greatest responsibility for all. They are the ones who, while having in their programme statements a certain fact that they do not give the name and that they will be in favour of national interest, did nothing. And now they are going to Step and without shame they say that "we will do the impossible." They don't. She can't be the chief of the ANLLs to go out and blame Mrs. Koudura now by saying that her father has written the anthem of the junta. Why? So it's not acceptable to belong to SYRIZA, but is it acceptable to belong to ANELs all these years? I didn't get it. We must understand that we are MPs in Greece. We must bear in mind what our responsibilities are and what our position should be, which is not done. The only party that has a clear position from the outset and struggles with nails and teeth is the Centro Association. It is the only party that wants no name, no ethnicity, no Macedonian language for neighbors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u167	And Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u168	Please, when you compare us to Golden Dawn! I have spoken from Stepma about what our position is. If you think you're smart interfering all the time, you're wrong. We won't ask for elections. We are asking for a referendum. If you say so, that this agreement is in the national interest, come out, campaign, inform the world, because the ordinary citizen does not think he knows exactly what this agreement holds. And if he considers that it is right and nationally beneficial, then he will support you. You are a democratic party and that is what you must do. You've seen what the world's reactions are and the size of the crowd it reacts. Therefore, the only solution is the referendum. A referendum the neighbors did. So see the possibility once again before the Tsipras Zaev agreement comes to Parliament. Finally, I would like to submit to the Minutes a record from Mr Vacalopoulos, the historian, who lists us the fighters of the Macedonian Struggle and a brief record. I want you to see it carefully when you take the Practicals in your hands, so you know who they fought and who they gave even their lives to be our Macedonia free. And I will also present this black page on which I hope the names of all those who will give the name of our Macedonia to our neighbours will not be written. The Greek people need to know, and it is our responsibility, that we are not all the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u169	Thank you. Mr Georgiadis has the floor for eight minutes from the Centroon Union and then Mr Balaouras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few hours we have all become viewers at the so-called theater of irrationality and the protagonists have oscar interpretations. Mr Kammenos has not mentioned his own oscar interpretation with which I shall begin, but we expect with anguish to see how he will be placed by the Step of the House. Mr. Kammenos who left, as he says, but left half his Members in the SYRIZA government. So, indirectly, not to say directly, it supports the government. But she left not to support her. Mr. Kammenos who, for a year now, looks like the ring, the day after which he leaves, the days remain. He is the so-called Macedonian weekendist, that is, Monday on Friday he supports what the government says and the weekend goes out to the panels and says: "For the Prespecies Agreement, we will vote against everything." So he indirectly supports the government. Do you know what Mr. Kammenos reminds me of? It reminds me of mice jumping off the ship while it sinks. He had the opportunity to remove his confidence in the government, not only during the proposal for distrust of the Antitrust officer, because he did not want to be identified with the New Democracy - who reminded us that he was from New Democracy - but when he found out that the whole personal agreement with Mr. Tsipras said in the election announcements and under their agreement that it was not the Skopje agreement, but that the country's economy and exit from the memoranda and Scandalism, when he realised that negotiations on the name of Skopje and the concession of Macedonia's name could go away about a year ago. But he stayed. So it supports the government. So he's the man who gives the pen to Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kotzias to go and sign. We're talking about a man who, within an hour, changed his mind about the best of the minister, Mrs. Kouturas. An hour ago she said she was the best minister she had in his party and suddenly remembered that her father wrote the lyrics on April 21st. So, until then, until an hour ago, her father wrote lyrics about Kazantzides? Didn't Mr. Kammenos know this about Mrs. Koudoura's father, but he only came out to blame later? He accused Mr Kokalis of being in China when he made his parliamentary group. May I remind you where Mr. Kammenos was when we discussed the coexistence agreement? When we were talking about gender identity? When we talked about the Church? Where was Mr. Kammenos then? Wasn't Mr. Kammenos on a trip then? But he blames their students for doing the same thing as the teacher. He even talked about red lines and made a whole spot for red lines. He remembered the red lines we have as a Centro Association, because we really have red lines. The red lines of Mr Kammenos were sometimes pink during the parliamentary term and when he needed to vote for things that he does not believe. I close with a story I will tell you about Mr. Kammenos's moral advantage. He caught me in the hallways at a time when we met and he said, "You've been saying a lot about me lately. You're the only one from the Center Association you're talking about me." And I say to him, "Minister, what can we do? I'm telling the truth what I believe. We do politics, that's what I say."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u171	You gossip.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u172	"When your MPs come and knock on the door, I throw them out with the kicks." He proved it yesterday how he kicked them out, Mr. Pappa, for rushing to interrupt me. Welcome to the party. It's not gossip. If you think I'm a gossip, I'm sorry. Let's go to the second protagonist, Mr. Mitsotakis, who came out yesterday and said that otherwise some of the MPs entered the House, or went on and will leave. I'm sorry, have your president four not hosted your party elected on a list of another party? So why does the finger move us and tell us that it's different at that level with the rest of us? You have made the House really like a stock exchange where the Members' shares go up with your interests. Unfortunately, we haven't watched a bigger show at the theater of irrationality lately. Now we're going to the economy and the greatest protagonist of all, Mr. Tsipras, who asks for a vote of confidence - look out! - as strong as he can say it's the economy and that he sleeps at night. This is on the edge of anesthesia, sleeping quiet at night, because it talks about a person in the economy with one and a half million of our citizens being on the verge of poverty, with taxes and contributions to the private economy touching 70%, with the spreads reaching 5%, instead of falling to 2% and no one can go out on the market, with the mortgage of the public property for ninety years, with entrepreneurship in Greece being almost non-existent, with Brain drain now becoming a business Drain. In other words, from the young people who come out and go out, we also have the entrepreneurs who take their companies and go abroad. He's talking about education, which he's handed over the universities to "Rubicon" and drug dealers. We read all this in various publications that come out. Should we talk about the violence that you've become the ghettos of most Athens? For health? Have you taken a walk, Prime Minister, in a hospital, to see how it works? What if he has shortcomings in both personal and material? You are talking about the upgraded international role of our country, about a country, Prime Minister, which is isolated without any foreign policy strategy, with Mr Rama doing what he wants. Now we go to scandalology, where in scandalology you have put all your government policy on the one hand and the netting on the other, we have the "NOVARTIS", the C4I and the "SIEMENS" and on the other hand, we have your own scandals, the bullets of Kammenos, the DPRK, the Triasio, the airport and so on. We are talking about scandalism here in the Greek Parliament, instead of talking about the problems that concern the Greek citizen, about the problems of his survival. Mr Tsipras, unfortunately, we are not all the same. We're on the streets, and we're on the streets, and we're on the streets, and we're on the streets, and we're on the streets, and we're on the streets, and we're on the streets, and we're on the I don't think you dare walk on some streets on your own.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u173	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Tsipras, I said. Please, Mr Balaura. If you're offended because the Prime Minister wants five thousand policemen to go to Thessaloniki, it's your problem and not mine. We're not liar worshipers, as you're trying to convince everyone. We're not counting our whole party on your old and poorly...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u175	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u176	Do not speak, ma'am, you, because the fifty-five-first vote currently held by the party of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL is due to a renegade! Rejoice her and welcome to have her!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u177	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u178	Madam President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u179	Now we're talking about the scout, and I'm hanging up with it. We're talking about some of the panels coming out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Big Economics, we're not doing this thing now. And you, Mr. Georgiadis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u181	I shall conclude, Madam President, and thank you for your tolerance. You talk about a national initiative without board of political leaders, without a Ministerial Council, without addressing the Greek people, where 80% of this does not want the name, without having...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u182	Where did you measure it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u183	Go out to the rally and see what's going on, ask the world. Make a referendum count it if you have the courage. Without having him as a first government partner, without passing through the Greek Parliament first and then going out. This, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but it's not a national initiative, this is a prime moderation at the border of betrayal. The Greek people will judge you when the time comes, because the name is given. And, on the New Democracy side, they have no problem with the name and on the side of PASOK - KINAL and on the side of Potami and KKE has no issue with the name, his problem is with NATO. No one's got a problem with the name. The name for the Centro Association is the epitome of altutism, and that is why we will fight to antenna. Because I have abused time too, ladies and gentlemen, I will close by saying that on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the House you are correct, morally I think you are not correct in the way you are going to continue the rule of the country. And in all directions, anyone who is now giving confidence to the Greek Government directly gives confidence in the Ambassadors' agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u184	Thank you. Mr Balaurras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u185	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u186	Mrs. Big Economics, you said yesterday. It doesn't make any sense. These are disputes between... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Georgiades, don't talk like that. We can't be referees to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u187	In the six months that the President has not changed us, Mr. Georgiadis to give the good example, let him resign and give up his seat. I said hand over my seat, they didn't accept it. You can hear audio from radio stations because behind me was Mr. Callianos. They'll stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u188	Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you said yesterday. It doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u189	Yes, but I am not '151'. I joined SYRIZA for a year. I also voted in favour of the budget, and I voted for the plan, and I alone came to be supportive of you. So leave me the President on it, quietly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u190	Mr Balaurras has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u191	Colleagues, men and women, it is another brave and bold initiative of the Prime Minister. We could continue by whistling indifferently or waiting every time for false differences and conflicts to arise if we have declared or not. But you, Mr Vorides, because you are shouting underneath, do not dare to put forward a motion of censure. After the proposal of confidence, the decision of Parliament, what will there be? Kids don't even play like that. Mr. Mitsotakis, you came to tell us that we identified you - at this point you arrived - with the junta because we put Minister Apostolakis and compared him to Spantidakis. Your first coffee is done by reading the newspapers of counterpopulation. That makes sense. But what you read, swallow it inexhaustible and make it a line of your party. And it's not the first time. But for the first time in your leadership this is done in relation to the past. If someone reads Helen Vlacho, for example, the leaders of the old parties were trying to give a line to newspaper publishers about what they will show and what they will have. Today this has been reversed. You take a line from the newspapers and the people who write to them. It was your duty, however, to seek that both Constantine Karamanlis and Andreas Papandreou and the other Prime Ministers had appointed Heads of Unions of Ministers, such as Davos, Kouris, Hinofotis and others.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u192	When they were discharged.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u193	And what happened? They swore. These are fairy tales. It's stories they don't even do about Halima. I want to make a friendly suggestion to you. Aren't you looking, Mr. Mitsotakis, and the rest of your party, is Mr. Prateneris a provocator, and has he led you so many times, as yesterday, to impatiently difficult? Let's go to the Macedonian. But you're saying in, you're saying outside. I will not say why you have reached this point. But you have reached a last point to talk about exchanging pensions when you had ice from Junger, Moscovisi, Merkel, etc. And you didn't have the self-awareness, at least between you two, say you've gone too far. You didn't even do that. Nowadays, you are told that Macedonian is being solved in order to break the interest rates in order to get out of the market. These are unprecedented things. They don't stand in any sense. Not even in the lower layers of Greek society. And not only that is not what you are doing, but you are accentuating the lower reflexes of the folk layers. This policy of yours returns us to post-war times until post-war. That's it. That's where political life comes back. But listen, ladies and gentlemen. We are not afraid of the threats of these subjects. We were not afraid of the hard times with the tanks, the barracks, torture, prisons and exiles, will we now fear these suffering from various circles in society? And as the lyric of the song says, "Don't be afraid, I slowly don't cry." You're saying we were imposed by foreign forces. Indeed, we have been imposed from a long time, since the Inner KKE, since the time of the AKO, since the coalition, since the time of SYRIZA, when the resolution of the Macedonian state had been taken by all these parties and the modalities in their conference decisions. Is it or isn't it? And the programming statements that we made both January and September, the foreign forces put us in when it was still in the difficult six months of '15s? It is also unprecedented for political life these things. I want here to address the JRC's comrades. The other is whether a people wish to join NATO or whether there was a Warsaw Pact - it is his right to inalienable. We will not decide whether a state should join the European Union or NATO. We are making an agreement, which concerns the two states and the Balkans. I won't say anything more about it. Referring to the New Democracy again, I will say that this policy has lost and that the votes of some neoliberal executives have been on this side. You're not, Mr. Voridis. You're elsewhere. Why don't you and your prints, socks, unrelated, infinite, left parentheses, as you were saying. And now in the new clause for you after four and a half years, such parentheses I haven't seen in history. Mrs Ahtsoglou said a lot of things that have been done, but I will say what is going on, which you and the other parties in the opposition know very well. Because there's going to be a Constitution review, which is something you don't want. Even an article to be revised, the article on the protection of the Ministers. The increase in the minimum wage ahead. The abolition of the submarine for young people. The regulation to facilitate those who have accumulated the first debts by establishing instalments. Protection of first homes and support for housing policy by subsidising loans and subsidising loans to borrowers for first home loans. For the first time in the history of the country this thing is done. Finally, rationalization of relations between the State and the Church. That's what you're afraid of. That's all you don't want us to deal with the real facts. You want us to face false dilemmas and misleading words to the Greek people. Here we will also be programming, but also being judged by the reality of the four and a half years of our government, by the projects we are doing and by the social programme that we will have in the next phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u194	Thank you. Mrs Arabaji has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, I rise to the Step of plenary with full awareness of the historic moment in which the debate on the vote of confidence takes place. But even at this historic moment, this supreme parliamentary procedure, such as the vote of confidence, the government chose to bring it to fruition, to tighten it up in a fast-track debate. Why is that unprecedented rush? Why this hood? Unfortunately, the answer is easy and simple as it is. In order to hear as few Members as possible, to make as little criticism as possible of the opposition as possible, to force as little as possible the willing Members, the new minions of Mr Tsipras, both credit and not, and to give a vote of confidence to the collapsing Tsipras government with the ANAL tails. And all this, of course, for a few more days in power. However, why did we lead to the debate on the vote of confidence, which the Prime Minister reluctantly claimed that from his good heart he introduced to the debate, as if he were not obliged by the Constitution? But because the polluted Pan of Kammenos is trying to save anything - and if it is saved - and to play the last performance entitled 'Boded - the exterminator of the Prespecies Agreement', a performance - fiasco, of course, by submitting Mr Tsipras himself, who certainly does not find any spectators. And the theatrical amateurism of the two 'former's' - in introductory words - may have caused anger to our tired people if it did not harm our homeland, if it did not harm Macedonia, Macedonia, for which Mr Kammenos is not a nail. Nor does Mr Kammenos really want to block the Prespecies Agreement, because if he was really interested in it, he would not, of course, give Mr Kotzia the ticket in June to the press and sign it. If he was of interest to him, he would then block the implementation of this infamous agreement, voting 'yes' to the proposal of distrust of the New Democracy. But then he was pulling our fingers, telling us that he wants to get the country out of the memorials, begging in a filthy way that the agreement would never pass through Skopje, calling Mr Kotzia a terrible Minister, to whom he said he also had great confidence. And when, of course, all the pretexts and excuses were disproved from reality, when with Mr Kotzias from warm friends they became deadly enemies, denounced each other at the table of the Ministerial Council and when the Ambassadors' Agreement came to be before the gates in the Greek Parliament, then Mr Kammenos allegedly remembered Macedonia. Too late for tears, Mr. Kammene, because if you wanted the Prespecies Agreement not to pass, you'd throw the government before the signature of Kotzia. Why did you not want the Prespecies Agreement to pass, how did you manage to photograph you next to Mr Zaev in the summer, following his invitation to NATO as a new entrant in the pre-accession negotiations, because it was precisely because the unscrupulous Ambassadors' Agreement had been signed, which he has already produced? Because if Mr Kammenos did not want the Prespecies Agreement, he would have thrown the government before the referendum and before the constitutional revision in the neighbouring country. Mr. Kammenos only wanted to be the ministerial chair yesterday and all he wants today is another chair that wants to hold fast, that of the Chief Party and the MP, with all paradox and every compromise. Ethics "la card" is the morality of Kammenos, the morality of "lacard" and the morality of his MPs, because Mr. Kammenos easily shoots Mr. Kokkalis and Mrs. Kountoura, because they have not been disciplined in his decision, but at the same time he tolerates Mr. Zourari and Mr. Papachristopoulos, because the five are not coming out, so that he is still the leader of a parliamentary party. Hunting, opportunism, phantomism all his majesty! The government will, as it turns out, take a vote of confidence, and drive rapidly and as a lightning for the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement, by hurting the Macedonian people and the entire Greek people, who rebellion is watching their patriotic philosopher, his history and civilization rampant. The resurrection watches you to sell Macedonia with your own signature. The resurrection watches the remaining ANEL MPs, who have now remembered Macedonia's defence and that they originate in Macedonia, to provoke here with their hypocrisy. I heard Mrs. Tsaruha say yesterday that Mr. Kotzias brought the blackmail agreement the days that the government tried with nails and teeth to get out of the memorandum. Only he remembered the blackmail too late and forgot that at that time, together with all the ANELs, those benches applauded standing and passionately Mr Kotzias who supported the Prespecies Agreement and said "no" in the proposal for distrust of the New Democracy. However, if this obscene performance of political opportunism we've been watching in the last few days has two protagonists, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos, who have six parrots since yesterday and six parrots, who, in their attitude, poison the political life of the country. You dismantle parties, corrupt consciences, undermine institutions, turn political life into an unbelievable Eastern exchange. And, of course, you have forgotten your toxic reason, the poison you were throwing to those Members who were thinking of voting for Stavros Dimas in 2014 for President of the Republic and not inhibiting the government's course. With what intensity you described them as silver and apostates! And today those who will suddenly support your Government, as if they saw the truth, are not silvery, of course not apostates. Because Mr. Tsipras changed the 2014 tape yesterday and says that it is the apostates who throw the government and not the ones who support it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen - and with your tolerance for a minute, Madam President - this critical and historic hour is the time for clear words. What is at stake tonight is not whether the country will have a government tomorrow, what is at stake tonight is whether the coup d'état of parliamentarians will open the door to the sellout of Macedonia. And here, unfortunately, "Nightmare" is not one, but it is six. "Yes to the Tsipras Government" tonight means "Yes to the Prespecies Agreement" in a few days or even a few hours, as we hear from yesterday in the halls of the Parliament. But, indeed, as a Macedonian I would like to ask, above all, the Members who are thinking today of giving a vote of confidence to the government, but who are saying that they disagree with the Prespecies Agreement: I wonder how you will accept an agreement, which will be a permanent wound to the body of Macedonia, to pass even with less than a hundred and fifty votes, because this evening you will give a vote of confidence. And I would like to warn against something: if the Prespecies Agreement goes through with less than a hundred or fifty votes, the political problem that will be caused will be very great and will open up a huge split capital in the country. Watch out, 'cause you're playing with fire! Anyone who votes today will be a conspiracy, whether he agrees or disagrees with the ratification of the Presidencies Agreement. He will be accomplice to the tradition of Macedonian ethnicity, Macedonian language to the Skopje and perhaps tomorrow with an irrevocable signature he will give water to the mill in the vehicle of Macedonianism. Because none of the things you're giving was on the famous national line that the Prime Minister has been telling us for a long time to atone. So I personally address you six Members who are ready to vote for a vote of confidence. Who legalises you to seal and validate by your vote the disgraceful statements of Zaev about a so-called Macedonian language and ethnicity and perhaps tomorrow about an alleged Macedonian minority?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u196	You said you'd talk a minute more and you've already spoken two and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u197	If you feel a little less of the burden of responsibility you take over against the citizens, say 'no'. The country tonight has a great opportunity to go to elections, to fall the Tsipras government and to decide the citizens who say 'no', instability in voice, in the suppressed Ambassadors' agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u198	I would ask that the time be respected, because now there is no room for luxury. Mr. Barkas from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the proposal of confidence has exceeded the reasons for it and raises new questions. What we shall all be judged on is this: What will be the next day for the country and its people? And on this question, the country's political scene will be formed. We are at a juncture which is very intense and central in all respects. We're at the turn of history. We are today a few days after the ratification of the 2019 budget, the country's first Memorandum of Understanding, where the government voted for a confidence in an economic and political project very clear for whom it serves, in an economic programme that attempts to serve the large social majority, workers, unemployed, young people and young people in this country, pensioners, small businesses, all those targeted by the memoranda and who have borne the burden of the country's survival. We are a few days before we close four years from the 2015 elections, where two political plans were also being examined and where the people against the darkness that the Samara plan had chosen SYRIZA, to represent his interests, to fight against the European elite and to defend the interests of the economic and socially weakest, the rights of the great majority of the Greek people who had been targeted by the memorandum, which - to remind us - should not have been imposed on us, we should have invented it, in the view of the then government. We are a few days before he came to Parliament for ratification of an agreement that solves a chronic issue which troubled the two neighbouring peoples, who cultivated nationalism in both countries. However, we are here now with clear facts and comparison is inevitable. The Samara government is asking for a second opportunity, because it is clear that Samaras is the leader of the New Democracy. Mr. Mitsotakis remains committed to an agreement he made with the former Prime Minister when he asked him for his support in the procedures for the appointment of the Head of State of New Democracy in 2015. And I'm explaining. The Samara line adopts the New Democracy in Macedonian, attempting to rally an agreement that creates rather than destroys it. The Samara line adopts when it plays a dominant role in Georgiadis and Voridis in the party. The Samara line adopts when it targets all those who disagree even with practices that come out of the darkest times. The Samara line adopts, when clinging to the chariot of the most conservative circles of the European extreme right, by fully compiling on the block of Orban, Lepen and Salvini. You're in panic, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and panic is a bad counselor in life. But, ladies and gentlemen, there is one big difference: in Greece, Samaras no longer governs, but Tsipras and SYRIZA and we can all be judged by what we are doing and not by what we are saying. And Mr. Vorides reminded us. He wants the defeat of the government, to defeat the dominance of the left in the country and seeks the restoration of the reactionary political block that imposes his views with cries and axes. The question therefore remains: What will be the government of the next period and what policies will be implemented? The New Republic of Samaras, Borides, Georgiadis ruled this place. They want to come back to avenge them. They want your youth and her rights in the face. They want job devaluation, they want the retired person on the social margin. They want the Aegean to be a cemetery of souls again. They want health for the few. They want a country destroyed financially and morally, to continue to win by those who in the crisis won, the Midian masters and the great journalists from whom they take a line. But they will be defeated - they are sure - once again. The reality, unfortunately, for the New Democracy, is relentless. We will continue to be here, in order to establish discriminatory measures in favour of the world of work, in favour of youth. For example, I mention the increase in minimum wages, the completion of the constitutional review, the consolidation of stability, the strengthening of the positive course of the economy and the further reduction of unemployment, the completion of dialogue with the Church, social support measures such as, for example, the law and the protection of first residence, the regulation of the hundreds of twenty-dollars for free professionals. The Greek people see, they know, and they recognize. It sees the efforts of the Greek Government at difficult times to gain sovereignty over policy. He knows that our government doesn't owe any big industry, no big bankers, to any pharmaceutical industry. Recognizes our daily struggle to prevail in light and hope. Ladies and gentlemen, our government has never been afraid of the people and you know why? Because he represents and gives him a reason. We do not hide in the rabbits of history, but instead we take national responsibility, with the people. We're taking orders from him. He and his interests are represented. This will continue to do without fear of targeting as many posters as our faces stick to your executives. And you know why? Because we don't hide. We're everywhere, with a clean face and an honest placement. Everyone knows us. We're in schools with parents, teachers and children, and we're trying to get a better public free school. We are in the cafes, in the squares and in the villages, to talk face to our fellow citizens and tell them what we can and can't do. We are together with the farmers and we are trying together to rebuild a country that you have destroyed. We are together with the unemployed and are trying to develop policies to create new jobs, but also stable and decent jobs. We are together with the small professional and we know firsthand the relief to be provided by setting a hundred twenty doses. Ladies and gentlemen, I obviously give a vote of confidence to the government to continue its work in order to continue the economic, political, social and moral reconstruction of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr Barcas, for keeping time. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras described the Government of Papademos as a 'quarry'. I would remind him that he took a vote of confidence from two hundred and fifty-five Members and that Mr Tsipras himself has agreed to members of that government, but he has concealed it to us and that the multi-advertised enlargement of SYRIZANEL includes some more 'currels'. Mr. Tsipras, with intoxications and behind-the-scenes bazaars, with no principles, no moral barriers seems to be taking the vote of confidence. But it is a weak, temporary and grey majority. With all that, you have done four years now you have lost the confidence of the great majority of the Greek people. The country's productive and creative forces do not give you a vote of confidence. They do not give you a vote of confidence by those workers who find false words and see their income falling and the working conditions deteriorating. The small and medium-sized businessmen, traders, free traders, scientists, doctors, lawyers, engineers, who are suffocating from overtaxation and high insurance contributions, lack of liquidity and the high delay in the exploitation of guaranteed resources of the ESRB. They do not give you a vote of confidence by farmers and farmers who see their income falling due to a great increase in production costs, the absence of controls, the Greek price humiliations, especially the price of olive oil and milk. They don't give you a vote of confidence in four hundred thousand retired people who have abolished the CSCE, the micro-retired people. They do not give you a vote of confidence by those who take from 2016 onwards reduced pensions, based on the Katorugalou law. They do not give you a vote of confidence, not only because you have not created conditions to read a path worthy of their studies, but mainly because you have stolen their hope and shown them a miserable future, which is limited to social work and uncertainty. The doctors, nursing staff and hospital workers, health centers and rural hospitals are not giving you a vote of confidence, because with your policy you have broken up the National Health System. Young people, teachers and parents do not give you a vote of confidence, because you degrade public education, school, university, and you denounce the knowledge that can be a safe passport for tomorrow. The unemployed and the financially weak, whom you want to use with customer relations, do not give you a vote of confidence, but at the same time condemn them to the poverty trap with the snare of survival benefits instead of reintegration policies at work with guaranteed resources that we have given you. They do not give you a vote of confidence among people with disabilities for degrading pensions and indifference to their rights. The islands do not give you a vote of confidence to abolish the reduced VAT. They don't give you a vote of confidence the Cretans you excluded from the transport equivalent and their families since 1 January 2019 are charged every month with 15 million euros. You are not given a vote of confidence by the multi-stakeholder families, third-party and multi-stakeholders, because you refuse Parliament to discuss the proposal for a law of the Movement for Demographic Demographics. Of course this proposal is the result of the debate on the respective committee set up on a proposal from the Democratic Association, President Fofi Gennimata. They do not give you a vote of confidence, because in the cry of agony and in the mention of their problems you respond ironically, as you have done before. Greeks and Greek women do not give you a vote of confidence, because you have regressed the progressive reforms of the place and only made arrangements of interest and a new "deal" between old and new "jacks". You have demanded the Constitutional Review process between 'neighbourhood committees' and a committee that we have lost in the process. Mostly, however, they do not agree with the handling of national issues. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have had all the conditions to provide a viable and nationally advantageous solution. You had support from everywhere, at the best time, and you didn't manage to use it. You preferred to use this support not to secure national interests, but to become a member of the American chain, to be the Prime Minister convenient and useful, no matter how he opens new wounds, maintains and strengthens Skopje's alutism. Society rejected you, Mr. Tsipras. No matter what communications tricks you've been up to, and if you're up from now, your government can't long-term. There is a complete disharmony of the needs of the country and society with the political behaviour of the government. The Change Movement, obviously, is in line with the needs of the country and the anxiety of the citizens, with responsibility and truth, and is voting against the events of this SYRIZA - ANEL government. At the same time, SYRIZA - ANEL and New Democracy have set up a scene of polarization and division, seeking to serve the small-party purposes of each one for himself. They promote the fake dilemma "Tsipras or Mitsotakis" in order to keep the chair and the other to replace it. But the stake for the country, the Greek people, the society, the youth, is not the rotation of parties or individuals in the positions of power, but the change of policy, the change of line for the country. The real dilemma, therefore, is between the political and the practices of division and polarization that lead to a dead end and the policy of national co-operation and cooperation between all the forces of the country for its reconstruction. We, the PASOK, the Change Movement as a whole, have worked out the "Greek Plan" and we ask for strong command for sustainable solutions, for national line, for progressive patriotic policy, so that the country ceases to travel without compass. We have confidence in the Greek people that it will strengthen the hope that we can succeed for Greece to reopen the paths for the progress and prosperity of the people on solid foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u202	Thank you. Now Mr Varvitsiotis has the floor, and then the Minister for the Interior will speak. Here, Mr Varvitsiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u203	I would like to remind Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Tsipras that the government of Papademos was formed after the move of MPs who did not place any consideration on ministerial councils, did not exchange their vote with a chair, but we asked then - including the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis - to overcome division lines, in order to move forward, into a beneficial agreement. And he was so beneficial to this agreement that Mr. Haritsis as Deputy Minister of Finance sent us last year and this year to the one who came, he said that the PSI was what relieved public finances, as no other fact in history. For four years, however, we have been living the greatest theatre of irrationality, because you are saying other things every day that you are changing views and others. We are living above all the mathematics that Mr. Tsipras seems to be a genuine Greek contractor. He knows very well to measure the conditions of counter-response. He knows very well to use what he has, to win votes in Parliament, to win MPs, to shape fragile balances to maintain power. This game of resentment, as a genuine child of Greek contractor, played it very well with the genuine child of the dealer of used cars, who sold seaweed for silk ribbons. He sold nationalism to sit in the chair four years and make an uninterrupted show, but also a series of agreements for which he is accused of being opaque and which will of course be controlled by the end. Mr. Kammenos's first decision was to upgrade aeronautical cooperation planes P -3- to them you will, Mr. Dannelly and give a vote of confidence - with 500 million euros and 70% advance, with his assurance that he will fly the first in 2016. We've got 2019 and it's still not out of the hangar. Yesterday, the last day of his performance as Minister, he came to carry out an illegal compensation contract with which he was exempted by the "LOCKHEED MARTIN" in the district for what he owed to the Greek state. And we do not know what these compensatory measures are, nor who they will be given, nor what their role is. Do you want to talk more? Do you want to say about the ministers who are holding their chairs today, while the press say they owe Michaels big loans, that they owe tax, and they still don't have the courage to come and answer these charges? Ladies and gentlemen, the government that played so much the game of 'but I say in it and other things I say out and I do' has not gone through before. You are the ultimate subordinates of all the demands of the international factor. What they asked of Papandreou, from Samaras, from Papademos, and they didn't, you did. They asked for the negligence of the Greek banking system and did so in the way you recapitalised the banks in 2015. They were asking for the superstition. We were told by the 'BILD' to pave the Acropolis for your loans. You've got it. Today, the Supreme Court is appealing. He participates in the trial launched by the Council of State for the cancellation of the transfer of Knossos and other monuments to the superstate. And the superstition itself comes and says "No. You're breaking what's agreed. They must be given to me and exploited under the international comitology. You went to the United States and said "Get bases wherever you want. Pick an island. Pick a plot. Come and settle.", with no guarantee of our international interests in the Aegean. And we saw the lousy miles away from Imia the Minister of National Defence throwing the wreath away the day before yesterday, because he wouldn't dare fly closer. You have definitively condemned the islands in accepting illegal immigrants and, indeed, in violating the human rights of these people. For you have accepted that, in order to maintain the low VAT rate, these people should live in bad conditions, in hot spots which will be overcrowded, because only in this way will the low VAT rate be maintained. Really, what happened to Samos? What has happened to the decongestion of Samos that this government, the people, has promised for a long time? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that the way you manage the power is tragic. Yesterday - I also see Mr. Polakis here - the Attica Hospital at 4: 00 in the afternoon declared inability to accept other patients because they had been exhausted up to the ranch in all the halls since the on-call. And this is the upgrade of public health, where there really is poverty, in western Athens, which you have not looked anywhere! And finally, I hear those tears about threats. I agree that posters are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u204	Fascist!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u205	Which one of you, when SYRIZA's youth came and took over my office, wrote me to the walls as a killer, went out to this room to condemn them? Who? You have no right to move your hand to anyone, because when you provoked them, when you signed them, with your natural presence, you considered it a sacred indignation. Today we directly condemn any threats. We respect the right of citizens to protest. We will meet with the citizens who, tomorrow, peacefully, protest for Macedonia. However, under no circumstances will we accept our national attitude to do so and call it fascism. The completion of the drama against the ravages of strangers is exactly the deal you will bring tomorrow to ratify here. It's the last thing you've been asked for. They asked you to finish the "skopje" and be the "first time left" that sold it all out and did everything they never accepted by any other government with a national fine to do. And today you're trying to sell seaweed for silk ribbons. What will happen will be a definitive condemnation - and yours personally, but also the Left in whole - of the Greek people. Never left again!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u206	Minister Haritsis has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Madam President. I should first like to inform Mr Varvitsiotis, who referred personally to me earlier, that I was Deputy Minister of Economy and Development. The budget is submitted to Parliament by the Ministry of Finance. At least after all these years, we can tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u208	Okay, that's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u209	And higher!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, the moments are extremely critical. The country is in front of great historical dilemmas, coming out of a deep, unprecedented crisis that has tested the resistance of society. We are now called upon to draw up a new course, far from the problems and diseases of the past, which have led us to bankruptcy, to lay the foundations for a fair, sustainable and inclusive development based on solid production bases rather than on bubbles, inequality and exclusions of the past. We are now being called upon to revive the confidence of citizens in the institutions, which has affected the years of the crisis. But there is also a serious risk: to return back to the bankrupt and sinful practices that cumulatively created the crisis, to the perceptions and attitudes that have unfolded the public sphere and alienated the citizens from politics. After all, there is an entire system, which in the last four years has suffered a withdrawal syndrome from disfellowshipping it and it does everything it can to return. There is the old political staff, what has handled the country's fates over the last few decades, with the well-known sad results, which he considers to be his country rightfully owned. It is a system that it considers to be intended to govern and treat anyone currently in the government, as a usurper of power, as an occasional occupant who must quickly leave his post and return the government to its legitimate owners. Apart from that, however, we are also in the middle of another historic dilemma, on an issue which has sparked the latest political developments. I am referring, of course, to the 'Macedonian', a problem that everyone has been discussing all these years, but no one has touched it until now. It is an issue that, of course, stimulates intense passions and causes severe conflicts. So the government has chosen to deal with this issue, taking the political risk, without calculating the political cost. It has taken the unique opportunity of the simultaneous presence - on both sides of the border - of progressive governments and has negotiated a solution on the national line. It reached an agreement, in the Prespecies Agreement, which includes everything that the country claimed. This agreement Certifying Opposition denounces it as a national dividend, in fact, with the whole system of "MAKEDONIC SA". - to use a very successful expression, in the opinion of Kostis Papaioannou - a system which for three decades has been politically speculating on the back of a sensitive national issue. With coarsely falsehood, with fast news and misinformation, they are working on the "Macedonian" and the patriotic sensation of Greek citizens for temporary party benefit is on the way. The reality, however, is quite different, because the Prespecies Agreement achieves all the national claims: the complex name with geographical identification for all uses and against all uses abroad and within the neighbouring country, the change of the constitution - which, in fact, does not have a precedent in peace for an independent state - and the removal of all the all-collective petitions, as well as any reference directly or indirectly to a minority, the confirmation of the Slavic origin of the language of the neighbours and the clear separation from the ancient Macedonian heritage and history. Furthermore, the agreement speaks of citizenship and not, of course, of ethnicity, as the opposition is misleadingly claiming to create impressions. It is a well-founded and fully fortified agreement. That's why even people with whom we have clear ideological differences and certainly cannot be blamed for philosopher - SYRIZAIS, as he said very recently, with his article in the newspaper "Kathimerini", the former president of the Society of Macedonian Studies Mr. Merzos. All that the Opposition imparts to the Government for the Embassy Agreement is only a pretext for sin. They are trying to cover the full removal of the New Democracy and KINAL from the official, national position of the country and their spread to nationalistic, extreme right positions, unequivocal, irresponsible and dangerous positions for the interests of the country. So we have this paradoxical issue: those political forces which, over the past few years, have made their own criticism of the Arab left-wing populism, now, on a crucial issue of major national importance, adopt the most irresponsible, far-right, the most populist, the most dangerous for the interests of the country. Instead of supporting the government's efforts to resolve a major national problem on the basis of the positions they themselves supported up to a few months ago, they choose not to fish in the cloudy waters - as the famous cliché - but in the black waters of the extreme right, in fact, with the same arguments of submissiveness and endism used by the warlords of the agreement on the other side of the border. The new Republic and KINAL are therefore committed to responsibility, but on this crucial national issue they are showing the greatest irresponsibility. And, indeed, they do this at a time when they swear on Europeanism, and they know very well that in Europe everyone stands up to them, even their own political families, such as the European People's Party and the European Socialist Party. Nevertheless, the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation, Mr. Mitsotakis, says that if he comes to power, he will undertake to renegotiate and bring a better deal for the Macedonian. Who? He, who does not have a single supporter at European level in this regard. And with who? With the neighbours, whom, with the Prespecies Agreement already, we have led to a change in constitution, a change in the name of streets, airports, squares, precisely to adapt to the data of the agreement. If this is not a maximum hypocrisy, then I honestly wonder what hypocrisy is. In the face of this ultimatum of counter-population, we are addressing the democratic, patriotic Greek citizens, who are not willing to sacrifice the national interest in the altar of micro-party purposes, who realize that the unprecedented campaign of intimidation, threats and unfolding consciences, which has been unfolding lately, are not to protect national interests, but has as the sole aim the fall of the government and we urge them to support the Ambassadors' agreement. To support it because it is nationally beneficial. They should also support it because it creates a very important political chapter for our country internationally, which is crucial to address other, more complex and more dangerous national issues. To support it, moreover, because it is a reserve for Europe, against the forces of chauvinism, national dissatisfaction and racism, which have recently been strengthened. Finally, to support it, because it is the only agreement, which can relieve the country and the political life of the place of the toxicity that the "Macedonian" has created in political matters for three decades. Ladies and gentlemen, I have dedicated an important part of my speech to "Macedonian" not because it is the issue of topicality, the issue of days, but because I think it confuses, in the clearest way, the two completely different concepts currently in existence in relation to how the country should go in the future, because the vote of confidence is, of course, about the government's realities. But, above all, in my opinion, the future is about what will happen from now on. So how we dream about Greek society in the years to come is the crucial question. A society enclosed, fearful, isolated and entrenched by its surroundings or a society with faith in its powers, which will have finally left the crisis behind and prone to this complex, difficult, international environment with self-confidence, but with determination and plan? In relation to the government's realities, despite any omissions and mistakes that may have been made, the government has already managed to achieve a great deal: it has taken the country out of the memorandum with society upright, as it has managed, in these difficult, suffocating memorandum conditions, to restore an elementary normality in education, health and welfare. It takes a step forward the injustices that have accumulated in the crisis and austerity. It combats unemployment and improves the relative position of workers. She's setting up the economy back on her feet, on more solid bases this time. It conflicts with the system of inter- and the splitting up of public money and restores citizens' confidence in institutions. It manages public resources - national and European - with efficiency and objectivity and transparency, in line with the needs of society and not on the basis of the wishes of the people. And it goes on in the next few weeks, in the next few weeks, to new, very important initiatives: the increase in minimum wages and the abolition of the subordinate, the new framework for the protection of first residence, the new provisions on the regulation of citizens' debts. This has already been analysed very much by my fellow ministers. I don't have to go any further. In my opinion, however, it is critical that, since we are talking about the future, the government has also drawn up an integrated development strategy that has a medium-term horizon, with very clear objectives, with concrete interventions and strict timetables, for critical reforms throughout the public administration, from spatial planning to the environment, to justice and public administration, with measures to support the social majority, to strengthen education, health and local administration with thousands of new jobs of scientific and technical staff, by completing the overtime Constitutional review, which is an ever-timely demand for Greek society, but also by mutually beneficial redefining relations between the State and the Church. In contrast to all that, the New Democracy calls for the return to the hardest neoliberal policies, to the famous 'trickle-down economics', which also led to the global crisis in 2008, but also to the bankruptcy of our country, with proposals to privatise the insurance system, to further deregulation of labour relations and even greater deregulation of the public sector, reintroduce rule 1 to 5 to the recruitments. In other words, the International Monetary Fund must have a blind eye. Ladies and gentlemen, two worlds are currently confronting the country at all levels, in the economy, in the social state, in work, in local government, in rights and in democracy. On the one hand, the world of progress, social justice, the enlargement of democracy and rights, development for all and inclusive, and on the other, the world of conservative folding, national isolation, fear and insecurity, that is to say, those who want a society, an economy and a state for a few and a few. The choices that will be made today by the National Representation, but also in a few months' time by Greek citizens, in the elections, will determine the fate of the country in the coming years. We therefore call on the Members and the entire democratic world to join in a wide, progressive, left-wing and democratic front, on a front that will put brakes on the forces of extreme neoliberalism, nationalism and authoritarianism, this 'Groescu' - if you like - of the marriage of Thatcher and Orban. We are therefore taking the initiative to set up this front, which will move on to the great institutional and democratic areas that society has and lay the foundations for sustainable development. It is a front that will lead the country forward, to the future, and not back to the past. It is a front for another Europe, for Europe of solidarity, for development and for social justice, for a broad, progressive coexistence which, in alliance with other corresponding initiatives currently being taken by the country at European level in other countries - left-wing social democrats cut off by neoliberalism, ecologists - will halt the development of international nationalism that threatens to strengthen the European structure. Because, of course, we see what is happening today, for example, in Great Britain. We see the ultimate political deadlock, but also the unprecedented political, social and cultural crisis, the unprecedented moral decline of this country...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u211	Who are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u212	We're all talking. We are not just talking about a party's attitude. ...equitably because after three decades of neoliberal pan-state, then, Mr. Vorides, politics has retreated, class analysis has gone for a walk and we have left nationalism, in this big country, to put the central dilemmas around the social issue. Ladies and gentlemen, the contrast between a memorandum that has prevailed in the country's political life over the last eight years is now going on the margin. The dilemmas are transformed, but they remain insignificant. Are we going back to the paths of the past, to bankrupt practices and to devalued political staff, which led the country to the deadlock, or are we going to continue and strengthen the course of development, the healing of injuries created by the crisis, social justice and the deepening of democracy? Are we going to continue as a country, in a domestic version of the European trend towards national folding, to reminiscent melancholy of an outdated and heroic past to entertain a gloomy present, or to move decisively forward, building our own future with dignity and preparedness for all Greeks and with Greece as a factor of stability and co-development in the Balkans and in Europe? These are, in my opinion, the key dilemmas and on them, and I call on you to consider the criticality of the moment, to measure yourself with history, take national responsibility, and give the government a vote of confidence, finally give a vote of confidence to a Greek democratic, in a Greece that is peaceful, in a Greece open, in a Greece that is extroverted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Minister, for the time. There has been a change in the order of speakers. Mrs Caracosta will be speaking now. After Mrs. Karakosta, Mr. Panagiotaros will speak, then Mr. Delis and then Mr. Papachristopoulos will speak. Here, Mrs. Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u214	Good evening to all those who are in this Chamber today to discuss this very serious issue. I want to start by mentioning the failed estimates of both the New Democracy and the PASOK - Samaras, Venizelos - in the summer of 2014. Then they were inspired and then chose to resign from the government and lead the country to early elections in order to throw away the "hot potato" in SYRIZA, considering that it would not take place either as a body or as individuals. So the brief parentheses had their contents. It was a mistake to appreciate both leaders, Samara and Venizelos. And, unfortunately, they followed you and their successors, Mr. Mitsotakis and Mrs. Gennamas. For four years this government, with an ally of the people, has fought hard, often unequal. Even with ourselves, we crashed until we managed to get out in the clearing of the memorial era. We have voted hard to prove that Greece and Greece - only lazy ones - can produce. They were just hostages of the governors, who thought the product produced - since they considered themselves as masters, that is, masters of this country - they were theirs. And this whole course once again showed that the Left is for the hardest. She's the one who isn't afraid, she doesn't run, she doesn't escape, she doesn't isolate. But you never succeeded and could not understand what left and left means. You've always been fearful toward them, toward their ideas. It always scared you of the fact that there were people who, for their ideas, were tortured in the places of exile, in prison, were never appointed to the public because of social opinions, nor even their children. Did you ever realize that all this needs mental and ideological power? Oh, of course never! That's why you're only talking about chairs on the left because you never understood what left means. Just fear them. Fear their strength. That is why Mr Voridis and Mr Georgiadis are being openly expressed, saying: 'Let us get this over with with with the Left and the Left'. That is why, today, in the face of the challenge of completing the important work we are doing, we have not chosen to hide. We have chosen openly, in front of the people and with unreliable confidence in the democratic institutions, to call for a vote of confidence. And if the important work that remains to be done is much - and it is already known, the increase in minimum wages, the protection of first residence, the rent subsidy, the Constitutional review, the conclusion of the agreement between the Church and the state and so much - it is the forthcoming vote of the historic Presidencies' agreement that conquers as historically responsible the Left and its allies. Love for the homeland and the defence of the people's interests are the main elements of our party and it is the responsibility of the Left to fight to solve the major problems. In the face of whispers, division, hate sermons and patriopathy, in the face of the posters that they target, the threats to life that they receive from Members of Parliament, we are confronting the call for a wider coexistence towards a progressive future. Never forget that the Left has fought for years for the introduction of mere analogy. I understand, on one hand, New Democracy, which believes in centralised regimes, but I would like to point out that the political force of the KINAL is not to vote on the simple analogue. ' simple analogue' means compositions, not in the same party, but in Parliament, by different political forces in terms of agreement. This House has had such opportunities. With intolerance, xenophobia and racism appear even in European governments' political programmes, the Ambassadors' Agreement is a balm for the misguided open wound of the "Macedonian" and an anthem of the value of solidarity and understanding between neighbouring countries. At a time of economic and social crisis, which is going through Europe as a whole, these initiatives and these texts are being recorded as the leading anti-nationalism and the patriocapacy. Colleagues and colleagues, faith in democracy and its deepening, is intertwined with social justice and social alliances. In the face of isolation and national embodiment, we have to oppose social freedoms and institutions, which call on all of us to defend them and fight together and strengthen them. The dilemmas are evident both in the country and in Europe. The path of the future is not that of hatred and division, but of progress and solidarity. And you don't get to talk about MPs and address Spyros Dannelis, who hasn't changed his mind since he was a member of the refreshing Left. And here I would like to remind you of the important difference of the refreshing left with the dogmatic left. Will the march to socialism be by means of reformist or revolutionary steps? That is the big question. We are following the steps of the reform. If the revolution gets to us, all right! We'll be there. But until then, comrades on the other left, we are not entitled to decide on other peoples. We give the right to the Skopje Agreement to their choice. Does that not mean self-determination of the people? We are not entitled to give up the responsibilities assigned to us by the people and step by step to move on to the goals of the Left. Fellow Members, with the development potential presented for the country and consistently in favour of the world of work, social and individual rights, we must call for the establishment of a left-wing, progressive front, inclusive, loyal to democratic and socialist traditions. Our commitment and our vision for a world of human, peaceful, away from wars, our faith and our struggle for the elimination of injustices and inequality, the patriotism of people's solidarity and solidarity, are our weapons and the dividing lines with destructive neoliberalism and extreme right. On this front there are progressive movementists, economists, social democrats who leave hug on the right. The water's in the groove for good. The vote of confidence in the government today is a vote of confidence in the Greek people's possibilities, it is a vote of confidence in its great and unstable powers, it is a vote of confidence in fair growth, social justice, the broadening of the horizons of all. The Greek people have understood that. We have to understand it, we have to follow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u215	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-four students and students and three educational sessions from VELESTINOS Magnesia High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Panayotarus has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Madam President. What we have been living in recent days does not have a precedent not only in the political life of the place, but also in the other manifestations of this modern Greek society. We are talking about what is happening in the - within many introductorys now and many questions - 'Greek' Parliament is the epitome of the dirty transaction - these are words of your own that you have been saying in the past, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and that is why you do not start to say things - they are the epitome of Macedonia's reaping, which was, is, and will be, in the centuries of the centuries, one, indivisible and Greek as if you were trying to dismantle it all. It is the epitome of the humiliation of parliamentaryism. And it is also the epitome of the self-determination of Members, especially those who in the last few days and hours have seen the true and self-determination of statements made not years ago, but just a few weeks ago or months ago. Hello, Mr. Quick. What are you doing? Today we have heard a number of things, particularly on the government side, because there is no more coexistence, no more confidence, and the reasons why this vote of confidence should be given to this government today. Of course, you're no more government. Circus "Medrano" is what you are and you think of as a government and we will see in the next few days, weeks how his programme will develop. Today it is a rehearsal of the rehearsal of Macedonia, a rehearsal of the cocoons, of the votes as to whether you can finally pass this agreement by George Soros, of the Ananist and of all those who want to achieve their own goals and who are in no way interested in what will happen with Greece or the state of Skopje, an agreement where 80% perhaps more than 80% of the Greek people are against. All polls say so. Everything says so. The whole society says so, but you are deafested in the most outrageous way. "A contributory", "a heirly mob", are the expressions you used for the millions of Greeks who came out at the great rally in the Constitution, Thessaloniki and elsewhere. The definition of the heterogeneous mob is you, where we see Syrians with former neo-democrats, with strains of ANELs, the Potamian Union, the Central and others, people politically and ideologically unrelated to each other or not having politics, just to be able to stay in their chair for a few months with their lots, others as it appears because they have many cheques to pay, others because they owe many, others because they have taken many, as in the last few days, legal money, advertising expenses and yet - this is a very nice way to close mouths, best of tacticals - others because of their sufferings have had some issues and others are entangled and, most of you, very simply because you are unrepentant Bolsheviks and like '40, '44, you have always been with those who said and sought independent Macedonia. You just do it because of your ideas. And we have New Democracy, the Civic Opposition, which, as all things show in the forthcoming elections - whenever it is - will become a government and instead of raising up all Greeks all over Greece, you say just some light words in Parliament and nothing else special and you do not expressly say that you will cancel this agreement, as the Chief of Golden Dawn did, as the Golden Dawn says. And don't hide behind this cut-off and sewn-up Prespecies Agreement, in which one paragraph you have also made and you say that Greece, one of the two parties, will not be able to denounce in the future. You have written it explicitly and unequivocally. Of course, it is well written in this agreement, and it has many windows that if anyone wants to denounce it, and at the end of the day, it can do so. And the clergy have so far fallen on you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, who even now after so many days of discussions you have not said so explicitly and unequivocally. And from everything they show, it's probably going to be voted next week sometime, because there's riders, there's a counter from George Soros, so that he can pass. Be careful, my dear Greeks, you who most on the Internet say that for such a serious issue as the Constitution stipulates, it should go through with a hundred and eighty MPs and not a hundred fifty-one. Perhaps it will go through with fewer than a hundred and fifty votes, because there is a need for a relative majority and nothing else as a simple matter, as if nothing had happened at all, as if a bilateral ratification, he says, between two states, as if we were to make a ratification with a state, so that we do not have customs and taxes on the importation of rice from an Asian country. The geopolitical chessboard is on fire right now. All the countries in the Balkans, in the south-eastern Mediterranean, do what they can to serve their interests. War in Syria: all countries are involved in an indirect or direct way. In the Balkans, border changes are being prepared. Serbia just entered the Eurasian zone the day before yesterday. Putin goes to Serbia next week to lock Serbia on his side. You also signed, of course, with the help of some of the Skopje, and agreed to the Prespecies Agreement, where some changes were made at the last minute in favour of the Albanians in Skopje, which favour big Albania which is moving fast and you just sleep up. Everyone is won, the Turks, the Albanians, except the Greeks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. I would like your tolerance for two minutes, as you have given the previous speaker. What I have to say is that even if this shameful betrayal agreement of the Ambassadors goes through, nothing is over. It is not possible for a hundred and fifty-six Members of Parliament, who, after a few months, will not even be MPs, to be able to change the course of history. All Greeks or those who feel Greek are at the rally that will be the first to be on Sundays and to any other rallys made, in the occupations, in the mobilizations, in the strikes prepared by the commercial world, especially in northern Greece, to be massive. Because of Merkel's son-in-laws and Soros' partners, don't expect anything. The Greek people with their sword always won everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u217	Now Mr. Delis has the floor. Here are Mrs. Kefaliannis, then Mr. Papachristopoulos and then Mr. Skourletis. I say it because I'll probably be gone by then. Then there are many more. It's Mr. Danellis, Mrs. Gerovasilis, Mr. Dritsas, Mr. Mandas, and it's over by speakers. So from what you understand, the Heads' talks will start at most in an hour. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u218	It turns out there's one thing in this new memorial era after all. See: The uncovered trade of hope in which SYRIZA is constantly engaged? But it never stopped. The aim of the geostrategic upgrading and leadership of the country's role in the region is normally to bomb the consciousness of our people in order to accept and support it. And nowadays a great, great, incredible stir in the urban political scene that is evolving forward in the eyes of the people with thick bazaars and many moves of MPs with such ease as to change a car in the metro, showing how much it is from the centre right to the centre-left. Just a cigarette street, come with a vote of confidence. Let us now see this fraudulent hope trade that is maintained and advertised by the government propaganda, speaking of positive measures that are left behind, so much, of the rest of the government's term of office. At best, it is nothing but a few charity crumbs that may fall somewhere - somewhere from the table of pluralism that, all of it, government policy sets it up richly with its policy. Truly, who is making fun of and what positive measures does SYRIZA speak of when the anti-population policy engine is operating properly with three engines in the three memorandum? And this mockery of the people doesn't get any bigger when you've committed this people to bloody surpluses by 2060, or when you accept and accept the aspiring commission? You are advertising, for example, an increase in the minimum wage for hunger for EUR 1-2 per day. However, the currency has two sides and you do not say that with the Vrutsi Memorandum Law - Ahtzioglu, the Minister has the right not only to increase a little, but also to reduce the basic wages as much as he wants for the sake of the competitiveness of the big businessmen. Why is it that all of you enthusiasts of freedom prevent workers from fighting for their wages? What are you afraid of? Don't the big-timers get poor? At the same time, the debts of the people's families to banks, taxes and municipalities are growing from the accuracy and tax raid that not only are cutting, but are intensified. From unemployment, the payroll and the half-work that breaks bones and especially the young people of the people's families and the auction dolphins to squeeze around the people's houses that now see any protection that is constantly removed. You know what? It's now that people's families don't come out and that's why they can't wait for your crumbs. Because the wind of your anti-popular policy even gets it well - they get it well. It is now that people's families do not come out and that is why they should become accustomed to the poverty in which you train them systematically and methodically, so that they do not see that around them wealth increases from their own job and poverty increases at the same time. It's now that they have to claim what they've lost and what they own. It is now that they must decisively strengthen the JRC, which always have it next to them and they know it, and not waste their time and their lives in search of differences in urban parties, i.e. where they do not exist. It's now that they have to put aside the carrot of the fraud you're giving them. It's now that they have to perpetuate from government repression and authoritarianism like the one you show to teachers fighting for their rights to work. Suppression that is not power, but weakness, because the fearer is afraid. 'Cause when you're going to give the chapter, that's where you're all getting boxed. Subsidies and incentives, tax exemptions and privileges are given in the chapter. Isn't that what experience says? Isn't that the policy of SYRIZA, New Democracy and other parties? As for the country's geostrategic upgrading, we now know very well what it means. Upgrading and expansion of the Greek business groups in the region means like the one that took place in the 1990s and scattered unemployment and poverty especially in northern Greece. And its passport has the Prespecies Agreement, which is the golden key to the overall US planning in the region. And to have a good question, these designs did not serve them consistently and dedication, whether separate or in return, both Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos turning Greece into a vast American base? Or is New Democracy questioning these plans? Or do those who fish in the blurred waters of nationalism and fascism question them? Agnah, not all of these people take out for NATO, because all of them play the imperialist game in our country and in the neighbouring country, and all they ask for is more consideration and nothing else. The Embassy Agreement, which you are advertising, your horror, and as progressive, they wanted it, was imposed - and in fact they wrote this in an article in the agreement, in the second article - in every way the United States, NATO, the European Union for their own interests which are severely frustrated with those of Russia or China. Let us not forget, these are the same ones who, while the Balkans were bloody and triggered, exacerbated the nationalist divisions and hatreds, again hampered the borders with the blood of the peoples in the region and now showed up as the pigeons of peace and as guarantees of security in the region. And it is so unequivocal to support the imperialists in SYRIZA that all those who parade, and Trump and Merkel and the staff of the European Union and NATO, are those who first - first - give a vote of confidence to the SYRIZA Government, who have never carved them up and always implement all its commitments to them. To conclude, if with your internal policy, economic policy and the rest, gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are becoming the best preservative for maintaining a system of rotten and barbaric, then with your foreign policy you have turned into the best whitening of imperialism that continues to blemish the people. After all this, the JRC is, of course, voting against the government, just as anyone else has an anti-popular policy. However, it is also a question of voting against the people themselves and with their struggles and with their vote whenever elections are held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u219	Mrs Kefaliannis has the floor. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as of January 2015, when SYRIZA - ANEL was governed, the country entered a protracted, unpleasant adventure, a painful journey with disastrous consequences for the Greek economy, for Greek citizens, national issues, institutions, the very quality of our democracy. In these four years everything was swept away. They took advantage of the banks, imposed capital control, deceived the Greeks by a misleading referendum and finally loaded the Greek people with the third left memorandum. The balance sheet is completely negative. The competitiveness of the Greek economy is constantly falling, seizures and auctions are multiplying, public debts are surpassing 3 billion euros and private deposits have either been depleted or remain outside the banking system. SYRIZA and ANEL shrinked the middle class and made the poorer in conditions of unprecedented overtax. They undermined the public property of the country for ninety-nine years together with over two thousand three hundred properties of the Greek cultural heritage. And today the manipulations of the leadership of the Ministry of Culture on this matter reach the limits of cover. They pledged the country with great primary surpluses through the economic bleeding of the Greek citizen. Today Greece is still out of markets and under enhanced supervision. It is still a champion for the unemployed in relation to the other Member States of the European Union, without investment, at an anaemic rate of growth that jeopardise the hard budgetary targets. Ladies and gentlemen, for the past four years political amoralism, cynicism, the imperfection of democratic institutions have been the tools for deceiving the Greek people. Along with the economy, the country was led and under political decline. They bear witness to what is unprecedented today, what has been preceded and what, unfortunately, are coming. Since the beginning of this government's term of office everything has been done by system and moderation. After all, everything has been worked out: institutions, roles, symbols. Even our critical national issues were sacrificed to the altar of the micro-party benefit with appropriateness and regularity. The party interest above the national, above the collective good and above the function of democracy. All of this at a time when, throughout the world, we are discussing how to shield democracy, how to defend it from the dangerous doubles of populism and political extremism. The country for four years has been in a vortex of hypocritical moralities of a left that has been leaning along with its false moral advantage. If anyone hears the public word of the Prime Minister, behind every word there is a small or large lie behind it. He's talking about a country that doesn't know, that doesn't rule. He does not know how difficult it is for a free trader to survive with the contributions he imposed by the third memorandum. He does not know how difficult he is for an average family to meet the needs of everyday life by the taxes he imposed in the third memorandum. He does not know how many difficulties the pensioner faces without the ESS which he abolished with the third memorandum. All you do from the beginning, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is to oppose opposition. You will eventually pass into history as the government with the smallest governmental work. The crisis in the early 2010s began as an economic crisis and has now become a structural and institutional crisis under the responsibility of SYRIZA. After all, every initiative of yours has as its main concern polarization and division: From television licenses to Macedonian and relations between State and Church. You are all seeking to divide the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, the political mediocracy that has been taking place in recent days is the beginning of the end of one-all negative governance, yet another enthusiasm for the Greek citizens, the aim of which is a few more months of power for SYRIZA, the ratification of the harmfulness to the country of Ambassadors' agreement and of course the maintenance of the ANEL Parliamentary Group, a pre-agreed divorce of a political transaction based on the institutional structure of the parliamentary mandate. Even the crucial national Macedonian issue you put it on your party agenda ahead of national elections. Ladies and gentlemen, time now counts vice versa for this government that still bets on the misleadingness of the Greek people, who have not hesitated to manipulate justice, the Church, the Independent Authorities, who have undermined the distinction of powers by violating the Constitution, which attempts to criminalise the political life of the country and precede persecution and condemnation of public persons, which the party is proposing, rather than the national interest. You drugged everything in your path and we will count for many years the wounds you leave behind. But Greece can and must change page. Soon we will have the people's mandate to claim a better future for the country, to formulate a new policy that restores the relationship of citizens' confidence with the institutions. The restoration of truth is our response to populism that has been oppressing the country over the last four years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Madam President. A few days ago, in Gdansk, Poland, this happened, which most people may know from the news. An unsuspecting mayor - good or bad, doesn't matter - was murdered by a citizen. You know, he was also taking a lot of threatening calls. His life was hell. In front of the eyes and the television flashlights at an open event, he was murdered. It was a shock for the entire state and society of Poland. There was a man who had a mental disorder and interpreted what was written in his own way. I would like to say this: First of all, I would like to say a good one to Mrs Dora Bakoyannis. It may divide me into an incredible ideological difference with Mrs Bakoyannis, but at least she had the courage to take a stand on what happened - and continue to happen - to Members of the Greek Parliament. I want to tell her a good one about it. It is a pity, however, because I would expect, above all, institutionally superior people in this Parliament to have this position on the intensity being cultivated. I can also hear criticism: 'You have done the same'. I'll take it. This is where we operate with error-clearing? I remember when they beat Kostis Hatzidakis I was one of the first to react. When I saw Mr. Dendias almost predatory himself, I was there. The first guy who reacted was me. It's some things that's up and out of any political controversy. Silence here isn't a good thing. I'm leaving this. I'm not going to bother anymore, even though as a person I've suffered everything lately. I am very glad to say that I did not ask for, and I am not going to ask for, police assistance. Nevertheless, I am telling you that this is something that has to be stopped. There are always people who are willing, because they don't have the education, they're fanatical, they're impulsive to execute messages from someone who's enticing them, of course. Some others, however, may think differently. I'm putting this off. I would like to believe that these persecutions will mitigate this phenomenon. It's already a little mitigated. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] I'm coming to today. Friends and friends, I want to remind you that a man of yours, Manfred Webber, is in favor of the Prespecies Treaty. If you don't know, read his statements. I also want to invoke Michalis Stadiumpoulou who I remember only desert to fight then for the religion in identities. His whole party had abandoned him. Everyone had abandoned him and fought alone. I heard him last night, with his calmness, with a terrible argument, speaking in favour of the Treaty of Ambassadors. I read with great respect and attention Mr Merzou's article in "Kathemerini" and was amazed. He has led for decades what has to do with the Macedonian issue. I was surprised to be happy. I have listened with great respect, in my opinion, to a philosopher, George Librarian. I listened to him with great respect and how persuasively he spoke. And we can't go back. We have to go forward. I was listening to him put without speaking badly about anyone because he disagreed or agreed with him. I felt the same way when I heard the son of the Cyrcus, Miltos Kyrkos. I don't care if they're Europeans. They're people I think they have a sense of reality. I also heard the son of Michael Papayannakis, a man who has written history in this Parliament, Leuteris Papayannakis. All these, in the opinion of some, are traitors, etc. Is that right? I say it's not at all like that. It is more obvious - and I don't have to argue about it - that there is a noise that goes against reality. A country is literally squeezing. One million of the two million is gone, because there is poverty. You can read the articles of Stoyanne Adov, who was the first President of the Republic of FYROM on Gligorov. He's written a lot of articles. He's a man who has criticised Gruevski in the most cruel way. That is to say, no one else needs to argue. He's a man who was the first President of the Republic on Gligorov. He said, "We came after eight centuries here. Slavic is our language. We have nothing to do with Alexander the Great. We have no sight. We are not talking about a nation." It's very easy to find. If you press Google and read what Stoyanne Adov said, you'll see all this. It is a birth - a nourishment and the first president of this state's parliament. There's a question coming here. Costas Simitis - I am telling you, I have his texts ahead - was fighting for the complex name, Costas Karamanlis, Mrs Bakoyannis, Vaggelis Meimarakis fought in Bucharest for this name. So a question arises, is this conversion due? Is this just a question of voting? There's that, too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes if you're kind, because I'm in the eye of the cyclone. I'm just gonna need two minutes. I don't want any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u223	Not more than two.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u224	No, Mr. President. What happened and they changed? They've been so serious people for years. I say that it is not just voting for the reasons. Forgive me for the approach I'm going to make. And it's not just the hate, the anti-SYRIZA agitated by some. To justify that, too. It's a national matter. I don't remember anyone daring. I remember what Michael Papaconstantinou, your man, said. I remember what Evangelos Averov himself said in '59. I'd like here to put my own seal, my own touch on something. The coming of the corruption prosecutors to The Hague soon, where Eurojust and, above all, the American prosecutors will be dealing with the delays that have been made, in my opinion correctly, because someone has to come forward and criticise the delays in The Hague. “POLITICO”, a very careful magazine politician, wrote that the corruption prosecutor will be within the twenty people who will play a decisive role in what will happen in the European Union and Greece in 2019. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that two bold prosecutors after 15 years of the interview that Zosseran had given to "Le Monde Diplomatique" have raised this issue, while some were again talking about constructions, criminalising political life. The tomb silences when Yannis Papantoniou referred to it, which I hope the presumption of innocence will come to him positive. There was a silence in contrast to what happened a year and a half ago in the Chamber of Inquiry. I have their texts in front of me. What do I mean? It's the last attempt of some people to fire the government. And they want to throw her at all costs. They want us to have no results. And it's not only the 120 billion that George Sourlas saw in health, it's not the equipment, it's not the 50 billion that he caught with such passion when Thanos is appointed to the new Competition Commission, where we know that only the cartels of beer contractors, cosmetics, played and won over 50 billion. It's a periphery of the people who made the money out, bankrupt the country, have an ownership perception, not only for the parliament, but for the entire state and some of us see it as invaders and give their change...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Papachristopoulos, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, you're right, but I'm done. Since they have not received anything - I do not want to remember them again, the evaluations, the fourth memos and the last of them are the Prespes. I can't believe they really believe what they're saying. That's my feeling. In fact, I think they don't believe it at all. There is only one thing in their minds, how quickly as possible, yesterday, this government must fall. Because they know that mistakes may have been made by this government and it has done, but one thing has not done. He didn't touch public money. No one's holding her. And I think that this government could even hide behind a tolerance vote. He's got courage. After taking a vote of confidence in the budget, he brings today a vote of confidence for the second time, to have the courage and the walking to go further. Whatever happens, some people in here are determined. The country will return to normality. Hold it. There's no way this country's going back again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u227	Let the Rules of Procedure return to normality. Let me inform you that they are left to speak to Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Dannelis, from the ministers, Mrs. Gerovas, Mr. Dritsas and Mr. Mandas as a parliamentary representative. If we make an attempt to keep up with the time, as you can imagine, we will end earlier than the twelfth planned. Don't ruin that. Mr. Skourlet, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we all realise that the criticality of today's vote of confidence does not only relate to the provision to the government of a new confidence, it also coincides with the four years in which the place is governed by this government. It is therefore presented for many conclusions and many thoughts about a review. We all know that four years ago we received a difficult situation, in extreme circumstances, adverse conditions. We have managed a policy that we have never claimed to be ours and we have tried to loot its effects, particularly in the weakest parts of society. We have received a society and a bankrupt economy, while we have lived through the collapse of bipartisanism over the years, as an old political system, which operated over the past decades, and at least as far as one of its pillars is concerned. All these years people have understood - and it is deep in memory - that what led us to bankruptcy was the main political choices of interrelated bipartisanism, which had its characteristics the remulsion, overcompensation, subordination of public works, a mortgage on the future of future generations, all that led us to the memorials. So we have formed a government with the contributions of the Independent Greeks and their participation. It was a imperative choice, and we had some basic orders. I think that if we returned the clock of time in 2015 we would make this choice of forming this government again. But the cycle is almost complete. I say almost because I believe that Mr Kammenos's attitude to lift his confidence in the government is at hand before she completes a series of measures which were already known and which were jointly responsible for bringing them to fruition. Some of these things we have already seen come true with the budget vote and all the previous days, but some of them must definitely be completed in the next few days. All this time, the opposition has literally squandered its political capital, its political time. It was practically enclaved in the doctrine 'Vasta Siomple'. He accused us of a fourth memorandum just a few months ago. While shortly after adopting the policy of impulseism, a criticism of the government of making new benefits. But both of these are not compatible. You can't make a fourth memorandum at the same time. Both together are incomprehensible how they can happen. He didn't stop talking about elections all the time. He practically hid. And in all the battles that have been in these three years between the hard and painful negotiations, in essence, either he has not taken place or has not taken a place silently or evidently stood on the other side. It could not be seen to be voted and does not want to see an increase in the minimum wage being voted on in the next few days, because it was her who voted to abolish the minimum wage. I am referring to you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, who also said nothing about the effort, which was ultimately a successful effort made by the government to keep pensions from being cut. You said nothing when we fought to safeguard the public character of electricity networks. On the contrary, you speak unsettlingly and say that if you come to the government, you will privatize it all. You said nothing about hospitals who in crisis have managed to host and provide services to two and a half million uninsured. But, of course, you know, this policy, which is now being done in primary health care, shields against the private interests of which you are the expressors. You said nothing, instead you were against the hires made in the cleansing sector, about nine thousand permanent jobs in cleaning. Why? Because I obviously imagine that you don't have any dolphins or you don't want some people to find a job, it's just ruining your plans, it's ruining your core of your programming proposal that wants to hand over this service to private interests. At least, when the debate is taking place at this level of the programme of confrontation, I think we can all be honest, and I think that's what the world needs today and the world needs, so that each one can understand where they are going and where they are going. Ladies and gentlemen, all this is deeply engraved in the memory of the citizens and I would say that today's greatest enemy of counter-population is precisely the memory of the citizens, because they have not forgotten your great responsibilities. You are now coming to another crucial moment at the time of the Macedonian debate and you are adopting all this apostasy philology, but basically the ones who have apostate from the choices of the leaderships of your own parties - and I am referring to the KINAL and the New Democracy - are you, when you know that the national line in previous years has been the line of the complex name. So now you have decided, for the sake of the vote, to adopt a logic of ethnicism, to'samare', in fact to open channels of communication with the extreme right, to undermine the country's authority internationally, to indulge in the possibilities of northern Greece and essentially to be sent from a profound European perspective, because you need to know that the solution to the Macedonian issue is indiscriminate from a European concept that wants a Europe of co-development, cooperation, solidarity and democracy. It was a part of your tradition as well, gentlemen of the New Democracy, which you completely abandon. You seem to prefer a Europe of Salvini and Orban. I was listening to Mr. Voridis this morning. And it's typical of that placement. I ask everyone and everyone to see her again. I listened to him quite revealing and hideous politically for my own views. Do you know what came up with me? That Mr. Vorides has nothing to do with 'Ruvikon'. None at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u229	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u230	That's right. None at all although they are both intruders. But there too, they are different because Ruvik is invading embassies, ministries, throwing away his brochures, leaving in a few seconds. Mr. Vorides, however, has invaded the New Democracy, started and painted the building, installed and guided you. That's the big difference. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Friends and friends, colleagues of KINAL Members, I think that it is not appropriate for the traditions of the democratic space and of the central left to tie this space to the right-wing chariot. The logic of the equal distances that you have adopted between the Government and the New Democracy is, in fact, the 'differences' of a policy which has opened a way of understanding with the New Democracy, a New Democracy that is more and more like the Right. However, it is incomprehensible to me that the political position on the part of the River, which, while in all previous months, has been talking about the need to vote in favour of the Treaty of Ambassadors, today is incomprehensible with the issue of overall public confidence in the government. Ladies and gentlemen - and I shall end, Mr President - the vote of confidence we have before us and, in a few hours' time, it seems to be taking fifty votes from the Greek Parliament, concentrating too much. In fact, it is a vote of new renewal, new confidence in the government, but it is also the beginning of a new period, and so we must approach what is being done today, mobility within Parliament. So that's not a distance. Apostasy doesn't exist when you're in a government and you don't leave to fall. I guess the opposite is the right thing to do. And one needs to understand, seeing what has happened in Greek society since 2009 and 2010, all this reclassification of political forces as the deepest political processes, that we are basically in a new setting. A new progressive pluralist pluralist pluralist pluralist pluralist pluralist pluralist pluralist pluralist pluralist pluralist pluralist pluralist pluralist pluralist pluralist pole is now being born against a conservative pole. This is the great dilemma, that is the point of voting in a few hours' time, of encouraging a progressive pole made up of the left forces, the forces of progress and the ecology, so that we do not come back and go forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u231	I am not, of course, using the use made by Mr Voutsi, President of Parliament, Mrs Constantopoulos, otherwise I would explain to you, Mr Skourletis, that I as a Member of the New Democracy cannot be led by any of my colleagues. Mr. Danellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Potami from the outset, with unparalleled courage and selflessness, pointed out that the national interest requires that the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement be voted on and that it was reasonable. He writes on his website - and today - about his positions on foreign policy: "We reject the use of foreign policy for home-policy consumption. We don't like political games. We are interested in the policy that benefits our country. The name of Skopje is a typical example of policies that circumvent the national interest in favour of demagogy. Today we are striving to achieve the complex name we were given at the time, but we rejected it." The Prespecies Agreement covers the above and much more. He's good for the country. Just society seems to have come down to reason, and ears do not listen to arguments, and that is why there is no dialogue, because what is obviously not dialogue. The Prespecies Agreement therefore overrides national prerequisites, closes a decades-old problem and gives the country again a gloomy and prestige international. It frees us, at the same time, political and diplomatic capital to tackle the real risks that we do have at our eastern borders. Politics, ladies and gentlemen, is simple, as is life. But it's simple when you know what you want, when you're hierarchizing the big one from the roll and when, of course, your principles are unnegotiable. With my vote today, a vote of confidence in the government does not mean that I join the SYRIZA. Yes, it sounds unorthodox to a party or a Member of Parliament who does not join the ruling party, the government, to vote for confidence. But do we live in normal times? I said in public as early as 1 October 2018 that we should give the government a vote of confidence if it is linked to the Macedonian, when, in other words, I saw this leading contradiction coming. I give you this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What's the contradiction? To say, on the one hand, that it is patrioticly correct and nationally required to ratify the agreement and, on the other, not to understand that natural prerequisites are the existence of a government that will bring this agreement to the vote, it is obviously contradictory and topical, in fact, because if the current government does not exist, then there is no agreement to come, since the whole of the Opposition refuses it. Ladies and gentlemen, Macedonian is not just a national issue. It is a matter for each political area, and therefore also indicates the selective affinity between them, and these selective affinity is that determine the solid alliances. And, of course, anything else is tactics that usually serves tinyness of the context and do not concern me with prophecies in sin. In addition, I am not hitting the threats or the infections of those who apparently judge the perpetrators themselves. And, of course, there is a need for massive courage from those who did not hesitate to squash the parliamentary body of the River - and not just of the River - to swing the finger with stubborn remarks and by keeping the sword of the white, talking about gynaecologists, foreigners and relics. Each of us in this little place has the story behind it. I understand, of course, also the stubbornness of the attacks that I have received from a certain number of journalists and the press, which have unfortunately learned to operate for some time now as party propaganda offices rather than, of course, as press officials. And these are signs of the times. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen. The stake is not even the top theme of the Prespecies Agreement. The stakes are different. The Prespecies Agreement and its oblivion create new political and social correlations and change the country's political scene. And that is exactly what is causing concerns and severe reactions. I have always argued that Fukuyama: "The end of history" has neither come nor will come, at least in a visible time horizon. There's the Left, and there's the Right. In the great, the European cedar, the limits between progress and maintenance have been and today are more clear than ever. I dare say from January last year that if the parties of progressive perception and progressive opposition - and I mentioned KINAL and Potami - were less hypocritical and angry, they could offer an alternative to progressive governance, not, of course, by providing a white cheque to SYRIZA, but on the basis of a minimum programming agreement. And there was an outrageous attack on me. I insist that the mistakes, the shortcomings, the ideological obsessions, the responsibilities that SYRIZA has in these years of governance and the years in which the Anti-Populations last have not been the swimming pool of Siloam for those who have been bankrupt and who have come rehabistically as if nothing had happened in the past. And if we want politics to regain contact with society, we will have to leave hypocrisy, cynicism, stubborn remarks and convenient mental structures for looting. My dear Stavros, the fact that I have been stable for twenty years now in what I consider to be nationally beneficial and, in accordance with my principles and values, you are charging it to me as a premeditated mistake. Today's River with your own squeeze, considers New Democracy a strategic partner, the oldest. The New Democracy built by the client state and bankrupt the country. The current New Democracy in its ultra-patriotic version is a milestone away from the liberal Europeanism that we are professing. What does this thing have to do with the Potami, with the River in which we were elected in January 2015? And badly lies, my relationship with Potami had become late since our last conference, where with a large majority the strategic approach with New Democracy was adopted. I said from the outset of the public conference that such a choice, which is on the opposite side of my ideology, principles and political path, is none of my business. Stavros and former escorts of mine to the Potami, tomorrow at the Prespecies I hope you don't make the crime or the wrong one. To close, the politician cannot refuse, avoid, beaten to raise the burden of the responsibilities involved in his attitude on critical issues. And if you're a citizen, you're entitled to refuse to take responsibility for you if you feel that they're burdening you too much. The politician is, however, obliged to follow his principles and consciences unequivocally, without stars, without escaping and, of course, without straitjackets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u233	The Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Olga Gerovali, has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u234	If someone was toward New Democracy, you won't comment on the same thing, I imagine. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] So much has happened without any criticism of all this. So the criticism is good. It's okay. Fair. In this debate we are having today, ladies and gentlemen, it should not be overtaken quickly that it was not compulsory and that the Constitution did not require it and it did not need to continue to have the responsibility of the country, but it was provoked on the initiative of the Prime Minister, who once again demonstrates deep respect for the rules of the Parliamentary Republic, in the way that we understand the policy. I have no doubt, however, that if Mr Mitsotakis' new New Democratakis were in his position today, there would be very long discussions on the canals about how wise the constitutional legislature that preserves the stability of the country would be and does not put the country in electoral adventures. Instead of such a debate, we are hearing today about distances, attachment to chairs, exchanges, takeovers and many other unpleasant things. Ladies and gentlemen, we are calling today for a vote of confidence in the government and we are not asking it to be justified by the Members of Parliament who have managed to get the country out of the suffocating memorial period, which we are protecting workers and safeguarding social cohesion, which we have reintegrating our country into the international economic system and which has made it attractive to entrepreneurship and investment initiative, which we have again given it validity and credibility in the European and international stage. All of this is well known and experienced by our fellow citizens. We ask for a renewal of confidence to complete what is left over and in the next few months will unravel before us. All the things that we have before us, both from the Prime Minister yesterday and from the Members' seats, have been mentioned. But let me briefly remind you that it is: the process of revising the Constitution for the Enlargement of Democracy and People's Participation and abolishing the institutional impunity of Ministers. The increase in the minimum wage and the abolition of the minimum wage. The setting of 20 doses to relieve thousands of free professionals. The Law on the protection of first residence, support for housing policy with dosing subsidy for first residence and rental subsidy. The completion of the debate and the implementation of a historic agreement with the Church of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u235	Madam Secretary, excuse me, I'll cut you off for ten seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting from the top Western theory of thirty-five students and students and three teachers from the Achaea General School of Cliteria. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Madam Minister, go on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u236	In addition, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time we will be called in this Chamber to make a historic real decision, to ratify the Prespecies Agreement, an agreement which guarantees much more than the national line of a name with a geographical definition for all uses, an agreement that puts an end to altotitism. Our neighbors have changed Constitution, name, symbols. With constitutional change they cannot raise a issue of minority and recognise borders. It is an agreement that clearly upgrades the country and its geostrategic role, contributes to the security of the region and promotes a positive agenda for cooperation between the societies of the two countries. It gives a definitive solution to a problem around which they had been ostracizing for decades of alternating governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, a problem that the government had the courage, it looked at at at the national line with anti-nationalist perception and terms of national interest. However, we have witnessed these days of orchestrated para-state practices, with insults, threats to MPs and their families. I see Mr. Papachristopoulos. Mr. Danellis was here. Mrs. Papacosta. MPs of northern Greece, as well as many journalists who write. They send messages of the "you'll find your head in the ditch", "we'll kill you", "don't you dare, testify", photographs of melted heads and decoys with similar content. Mr. Mitsotakis sees some members of his resignation motivating and challenging acts of violence against MPs and their families and silently. He doesn't condemn them. I will exclude Mrs Bakoyannis - she did so today - but there was another Member here, I think. It is of great importance that the President of the New Democracy say so. I see he's trapped, trapped between his aspirations and his party's extreme right-wing leaders' choices. I think he's messed up past security practices with civilian safety. It used to be the Gotzamann tricycle and the cover of the para-states. Now we have Godzamanis of the sms, Godzamanis of technology. I would like, however, from the Step forward in this House to send a strong signal that these para-state practices do not find any way through. Whoever they are, they're more stimulants. Police, Greek Justice, already have individuals and evidence in their hands. Mr. Mitsotakis has been flagged by his security issue for a long time. "Insecurity" says he. I would remind you here that the Greek Police have achieved a high level of security throughout the country and, of course, in Athens, which is considered by the safest capitals of Europe. It has brought serious blows to organised crime, drugs, robberies, burglaries, trafficking, kidnappings, dismantling of criminal groups, Immigration Circuits and others. We all know that crime and infringibility exist in all societies - unfortunately there are - and our country of course is nothing special. What needs to be done is, on the one hand, to limit the causes and, on the other, to deal with a well-organised mechanism and plan. This is exactly what we do as a government at the Ministry of Citizen Protection with the work started by Yannis Panousis, Nikos Toska, continues today with me and Katerina Papakostas where, as well, we all have a permanent front in fascist perceptions and practices. Ladies and gentlemen, in this critical period we are going through with all that we are discussing, but also unfolding around us, it is not only where the country is going but also the whole of Europe. The political forces are being restructured both in Greece and in Europe. It is necessary that the progressive democratic space should be reconstructed and lifted up in the effort of the far right and the nationalists, not to allow even the domestic 'Orban' and 'Salvini' to poison our society with fear and hatred, and of course not to let them lift up walls among the peoples. I invite you to vote for the government's vote of confidence so that the reorganization, the development of the country at the historicly critical moment is not interrupted. I urge you to vote for the government and to continue its work and to complete what it has within this four-year period to do, but also to strengthen the democratic and progressive front in Greece and Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of something Mrs Gerovassili said, I think that all the Members of the parties in the democratic arch must once take a decision that will become a dogma in this Chamber, that they are likewise and unanimously condemnable practices of intimidation, blackmail and threats, so that any Member, wherever politically, can decide what will vote and what will not vote for, but will always be done. [[Applause]] Mr. Drizzas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u238	Time-consuming, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u239	I said, Mr. Brutsi, always.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u240	And in 2013 and 2014 and in 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u241	If the word "always" does not cover you, then over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u242	I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u243	I think the message was clear and it is mainly about the future and not the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u244	And time and time. Our position is stable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u245	Mr. Brutsis, have you taken the fact that there is a president, or do you want me to remind you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u246	Yes, I see you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u247	Good. Let's go, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u248	Thank you very much, Mr President. I beg your pardon, ladies and gentlemen, for the quality of my voice. Mr President, it is certain that you have the correctness and quality of your speech in this House. In what you said just now, only one comment: it seems that there are some asterisks, but this House is expressed in your words. All I would add is that, while all the Members of Parliament can and will send the message to the Greek society that no threat can be put to the ground by any Member, woman or man, to do what he believes at any time and in any event, especially at critical times, especially at the great moments that determine the future of the country. From this point of view, threats fall into the blanket and characterise only those who organise them, and that is why there is no star from either side and no silence. There is no need - I am sure - for Thanasis Papachristopoulos, or Spyros Dannelis, nor for anyone else to support or recognize me. Nevertheless, I must - and so I feel it - say that, just before we listened to them, we did not know them yesterday, nor today - with an anxieties, with this approach to the reservation of the thinking person. Because of the wisest things I have heard, at least in the course of human thought, it is what Hobsbaum said, "the doubt is the dignity of thought", what Spyros Danellis emits, which is not today, not today, but on a course, and Thanasis Papachristopoulos and many others. You can't honor that. Don't respect it. And here comes the President of the New Democracy, and he dares to reduce the dignity of this man in a personal way. But how can he not do this when he dares to trouble personally, to deceive, to reduce him until yesterday's Chief of the Armed Forces and now Minister of National Defence. He tried to fix it, but what would you do with it? If anyone's purple, he can't think of these things. He thinks he should be absolutely arrogant and sure of what at that time suits him and suits him. He hasn't learned that people win, lose, fight, try. They're outside of them. So he didn't even think about the Prime Minister of Greece, Alexis Tsipras, who, yes, he doesn't appreciate, wants to get rid of him. And Samaras didn't even welcome him to the Maximos Mansion. Samaras fled, didn't come to the succession of the lawful government, remember that. So Mr Mitsotakis did not think that Alexis Tsipras' choice of entrusting Admiral Vangelis Apostolakis is a choice of very delicate and serious and responsible importance. He may disagree, but he didn't cross his mind? What does these things have to do with politics, ladies and gentlemen? Why should we now discuss whether the New Democracy is credible for those rhetoric krone who have heard that this government must leave because the New Democracy wants it? Look, to see how twilight the approach is. In the constitutional review process, SYRIZA has tabled, among the various proposals, the following proposal: The inability to elect a President of the Republic does not lead to a break-up of Parliament. The New Democracy has not rejected it. She took it rather positive. There is a debate on how this is done. Not only that, but it has added to its proposal to repeal Rule 41 the possibility of the Parliament being dismantled on a national issue of great importance, which so far has been the case. He also added that the parliamentary elections should take place on a stable date every four years, and if the House decides by a majority that is designated to be only for the remainder of the term, we should appeal to elections electing a government for the remainder of the term, which has not been completed. Indeed, we are in a mature debate that, at last, the governments must complete their cycle, with the exception of extreme exceptions, exceptional events, full inability to exercise government responsibility, not because they want to do so, not because they are tied to the chairs, but because that is the mandate given by the electorate. So, in this direction, what is the point of all that is being heard all the time, when this government just a month ago voted for a budget and has in front of what? To implement it with everything that I will not repeat, I don't have time. Both the ministers and all know what positive steps are to be taken to stabilise, regulate, recover, relieve wide social strata and development processes are ahead of us. Don't do this while the House voted for it? Should the budget not be implemented by this government? Is there any reason, because the New Democracy wants it, or because it is in a hurry to come back or because it thinks it can go back to the government, why does Derbert tell her? Excuse me, but these are absurd things, unrealistic. They're irresponsible, completely irresponsible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. In addition to the constitutional review, in addition to the implementation of the budget, in addition to the Prespecies Agreement, we have precisely the next day. In Greece and in Europe will we face national enclosures, nationalism, chauvinism, racism? With what policies? Shouldn't the next elections be held up there? Yesterday - and I end with this, Mr President - the Nazi party representative told us that there are still outstanding accounts from the Balkan Wars and that we have before us to fight to free the monastery, because there are three hundred thousand Greeks there. This means that "Macedonia is only Greek"! Do not be fooled by the organizers of the rallys - most, at least - with their various names and opaque processes of formation that is what they say, geographical Macedonia is only Greek. Because everything else is cleared up by the Presidencies Agreement and there is no gap either at the borders or in the minorities or in the insulations or at nothing. Everything's in the deal, as long as you read it. If, then, we want a border with Serbia, as some people want a border with Serbia and say so, we want a dismantling of the neighbouring country, and that is a patriotic interest, let us do so. But we cannot regard this as a graphical one, because there are several such suspicious forces that operate in this direction and are misleading - believe it - a very important part of the Greek people. That is why there is a strange question "we, why should we give our Macedonia?" None of our Macedonian governments give anything, on the contrary it safeguards all the interests of both Greek Macedonia and the country and its country and its prospects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Drizza, so that this rock of yours doesn't turn into speech tomorrow, you're gladly done. It closes the list of SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Manda. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory of six students and two of their companions from the Journalism Department of the IEK AKMH. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before Mr Mantas begins, I would remind you that the agreement on a proposal from the Conference of Presidents is that the Heads of State or Government will start vice versa, Mr Leventis, Mr Theodorakis, Mr Kammenos and go by saying. Therefore, the first two to speak will be Mr. Leventis and Mr. Theodorakis. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u250	Ladies and gentlemen, two words, two concepts - not a ghost - are erected above this Chamber: confidence and consciousness, vote of confidence and vote consciously. Since postpopulation, a total of sixteen times, the thirteen in programme statements, including today, were called for at a different time, in the intervening period. In addition, eight proposals of distrust were tabled, the two for Macedonian. The one by Andreas Papandreou against Constantine Mitsotakis in March 1993, which raised a hundred and forty - five votes, and the second, recently, by Kyriakos Mitsotakis against the government of Alexis Tsipras, who raised a hundred and twenty - seven votes in the two - eighteen present. Symbolic coincidences, let's think about it. I start with a question: Is it done in only one country, not a power of the radical left to bring socialism, but to trust the radical left? It can be done. You got it. Is the radical left a central role, in a credible, consistent and systematic manner and despite the incredible difficulties and war, to fulfil its programme, to take the country out of the memoranda and open a new perspective? It can be done. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of giving the government a vote of confidence, which we are debating today on the initiative of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, not only disarms the anemic opposition of Mr Mitsotakis, who systematically loses in the field of political initiatives and overall in all the predictions - not to play, I would say, no jockers, because it is obvious that you have no chance - but above all it gives an opportunity - and I think that this is the basic one - to deal with democracy and clean responses, the rabie attack of a multi-faceted establishment that wants not only to end with SYRIZA, but above all with the ideas and programmes of the Left. The Embryo of all these developments has certainly been the Embassy Agreement. Today, then, we are able not only to reveal the incredible hypocrisy of the New Democracy on the Prespecies Agreement and, unfortunately, the majority - at least - of KINAL, which is a sad observation of a disastrous political perception in the field of international relations, but also to present the government's political plan until the end of our constitutional term, which is crucial to the country and the social majority. At the same time, I would like to stress that this very initiative is a political initiative that I am sure, despite the screaming and incredible targeting of men and women by the National Representation, will give a clear signal and message of political stability, which is absolutely necessary for the country to move forward at this particular moment. In the face of this clear, strong and democratic political initiative, the Opposition - and above all the Qualification - is talking about toys, trades, government - ragged paper and other such devastating arguments. They're judging the odds themselves. They cannot understand that the parliamentary procedure is being carried out on policies and programmes and that it is the Members' freedom of conscience that ultimately requires their attitude to crucial issues. In any case, we are all judged by our public positions, by our route and attitude. I too want to repeat what I have heard from Thanassis Papachristopoulos and Spyros Danelis not only today, but for many months. It is an expression, a personalization, I would say, of this very attitude. "Everybody recognises that the Left, which is the first to be the main body in governance, is convinced, is not traded. The left reclaims political hegemony in daylight and not in places dark, where the known establishment was resurrecting governments." The reality is that the rule of the place by forces of the extreme superconservative Right is the period that, unfortunately, in various times, we find such examples in our modern history: Paratrocrats, violence, fraud, bad transactions and blackmails, murders. Ladies and gentlemen, I am reading an excerpt from Elias' political biography: "The states of the West have as analogous barriers to communist risk Catholicism and social democratic parties. We do not have any of this. After us, you come. We're not going to crucify our hands and surrender. We will deal with you with the Security Bodies and the other bodies of the state.' Who said that? The Minister of Presidency Konstantinos Tsatsos told him when Elias and Yiannis Papadimitriou visited him to denounce the incredible frustration of that period of the 1960s. This chapter is of great interest. It is said "The spring of the 1960s, the unambiguous treatment of the Centre and the crisis of power". It is a very important chapter, and I recommend that you read it, because it has many lessons for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as they try, we do not enter the same dash so long that some seek, with a characteristic protagonist known as the Vice-President, because if in the field of the individual moralist attitude we are all judged, all of us are judged, what you are trying to cover through many revealing evidence, which is, in fact, mainly looking on the Internet, our radically different programs and protagonists. I repeat: what you are primarily trying to cover is our radically different programmes and programmes. Yes, I agree with many and many in Parliament in all respects that this confrontation, programming confrontation, which determines people's lives, must be done in the light and with the rules of democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Embassy Agreement, which some people thought was never done and hoped that it would not pass through the Parliament of the neighbouring country, is already on our side. This agreement for all those who have an elementary common sense and patriotic responsibility, for all who are aware of the complexity of the modern world, is a positive development, a promotional compromise. It is perhaps the best thing that our foreign policy has achieved, at least since post-Culture. It is a strong positive example in Europe and in the world. It's a breath of hope in the dark of nationalist folding and extreme right rhetoric. It will be the embryonic of critical political developments and the remodeling of the political scene in all fields. We therefore call for the vote of confidence to bring in and vote in favour of the Embassy Agreement to the Greek Parliament. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Ladies and gentlemen, a question is about who we are asking for the vote of confidence, about what social representations, about what objectives. The answer I think is clear from our side. No chair rhetoric, and looks like she can't snoop. We ask for a vote of confidence in the world of work and people of labor. We ask for a vote of confidence for the citizens of our country and the inhabitants of our country who happen to have a different colour, religion or sexual orientation, etc. We ask for a vote of confidence for our young people who live as much as anyone else's anxiety of the future. We ask for a vote of confidence in women. We call for a vote of confidence in sustainable and fair growth, for a new, strong social state. For all these reasons and many others, for all of this and many other things we have to do very critical things yet, because we have a plan and a vision. We ask for a vote of confidence because we want and we will increase the basic salary and abolish the subordinate. We ask for a vote of confidence because we want in a safe and structured way at the right time to go out on the markets, establishing additional stability and regularity in our economic recovery. We are asking for a vote of confidence because we want to implement the aid programme of hundreds of thousands of families with rent or first home allowance for the repayment of the first home loan, and also because we want to bring in a framework of protection of first home. We are asking for a vote of confidence because we want to strengthen the public health system much more and move decisively on to primary health care. We call for a vote of confidence to proceed with critical changes in education for the defence and upgrading of public education. We ask for a vote of confidence to proceed with institutional changes, constitutional revision, rationalisation and modernization of relations with the Church. We call for a vote of confidence, because we want to move to institutional areas and initiatives, for sustainable development with respect for the environment, for growth in the interests of the majority. We ask for a vote of confidence in a rule of law. The Fake News party, the most uninvesting party, the New Democracy, which has failed miserably in whatever investment it has made in recent years, the well-known "we want elections", consider us as weights, bad government, incompetent, cockroaches, unspeakable, etc. Unfortunately, as it seems today, their defeat at this stage has been accepted. We warn them, however, that they do not attempt determined deeds and false procedural battles. They'll be defeated. Ladies and gentlemen, the black right-wing propaganda, as expressed by a prominent executive of the Axquerata-based Officership, is a risk signal for all democratic forces. That's the risk. Let us not laugh at ourselves: this is the great picture, especially on the European background and on the international level, which is unfortunately shaped in the directions of nationalist folding and extreme right-wing structures that demand government power. In this context, the progressive forces, the democrats must decide who will go and who will leave them. This is where a clear attitude is demanded. In this sense, I think that the vote of confidence in SYRIZA, the government of Alexis Tsipras, is precisely this crucial step forward, not to go back. That is why this debate is also a debate and a decision of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u251	Thank you very much. We will proceed with the parties' leaders. You should be aware that, because they are secondary, half of the time is primitive but - and by decision of the Conference of Presidents and the practice we are following - there is a time for the parties' leaders to express their views. Just keep it in mind under the Rules of Procedure. I call on the President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Vassili Leventis, to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. There is a lot of discussion lately about some threats to Members, to vote contrary to their conscience. Indeed, the threat of a Member is unacceptable. I am also asking the opposite question, however, which must begin to be of concern to us. This Chamber is attempting to pass a bill after a few days, which is contrary to the conscience of the vast majority of the people. What can the majority do? Sit down to suffer her fate's written without reacting? What reaction can the citizen, not just Macedonia, do the citizens of Athens, Crete? Because the opposition to the Prespecies Agreement is given everywhere. What can he do? The House does not express the will of the people. The recorded surveys say that at least 75% - 80% of what the House is trying to vote on is at least 75% - 80%. So what can the citizen do? Nothing. So we suggest that the people put it down, and the only smart ones, and you are the only ones who are handsome, the MPs of SYRIZA. You are the Godfathers, you judge whether this agreement is beneficial. We have to suffer your will. The people have solutions? You know, in a democratic city when parliament and parliament ignores the will of the people, this is not a good sign. Do you think if you go through the Prespecies deal, you'll be the winners? You would be winners if you had any arguments if you came down to the people and won to agree with your views. That's the victory in democracy. At least that's not a democracy for the people. There is no democracy by ignoring the Greek people, not only the Greek people, but every people. Tell me what way does the people, the people who want a huge majority not to pass this agreement? What should the people do? If he puts a poster in a column, you say he's threatening. And it's a threat. Poor thing! It's all a threat. But what should the people do to save Macedonia? What does he have to do? To bend the head and believe that only you of SYRIZA are the only wise and beautiful in this country! Is that what you want? You have never done anything about this. The only recorded is the previous of the '93s with which top politicians, such as Andreas Papandreou, Karamanlis, etc. They had said ‘no’ in the use of the term ‘Macedonia’. The House did not meet before Mr. Kotzias and Mr. Tsipras met Zaev. Are you, really, the God-in-laws? You think the story will write with nice letters what you're doing this week? And another thing: The three days, he says, of programming, say statements, after you ask for new confidence, became two. And then something else began. Maybe, he says, on Friday you enter the deal to be voted on Monday. Why this violence? The Skopje also had a referendum, had the comfort. I don't think the Skopje were pressed within two days. Why that kind of premiere? Who's behind it and he's pushing? Why did the American Ambassador visit me and said: 'The democratic arch party, you, the Central Association, can you have the same views as the Golden Dawn'? Why did the Germans push me while recognising that the Centro Association is the only party that believes in reforms and while we supported the reforms? In fact, I believe that the bankruptcy of the country came through the system of rhetoric and customer relations that it has experienced over the last 50 years in this country, which did not do any party in this Chamber, as you SYRIZA found Europe and said 'we will change Europe', Samaras did his own madness in Zappa, you are all shouting against Europe. We have supported the reforms as a Centro Association, but the Germans do not want us, which we believe in Europe ideologically. They prefer Tsipras because he signs everything and does all of their gifts. Are you really happy with what happens these days? You are entrepreneurial and say that the old Karamanlis of '77 gave the language, in 2008 Dora and the youngest Karamanlis gave "Macedonia" (Skopje). National line, he says, was to give a composite name. Who carved this national line? Have you ever met a Board of Chiefs? When did the National Representation vote for a national line? You are called a 'national line' of retreats. Indeed, great retreats have been made on the right. Indeed, there were politicians who, on their compromise tactics, made concessions. Is that called a "national line"? And is that why Mr. Tsipras should base a national dividend on this? Is that a reason? What are we going to do to the story? How will people feel from Larissa and above? How will people who have not taken any notice of their opinions feel? The participants at the rally told them fascists. You measured them with a calculator that only you have. The hundreds of thousands you took off two and three thousand. The New Democracy itself, the sister of the Head of New Democracy, said 'I don't go to the rally'. She was modern, too. He doesn't go to the rally and Mr. Dendias doesn't go to the rally. It's against the rally. But now they're pretending they don't want the deal. And the question arises: It is - it says - bad the deal came out in front of Merkel the other day, and Mitsotakis said. It's a bad deal. So if we change something about language and ethnicity, is it good to agree, gentlemen of the New Democracy? So "Macedonia" you give it. But the rallys didn't become either language or nationality. They were made for the name, gentlemen, and the Chamber cannot falsify the will of society. It is incomprehensible that what is happening in that country is not to take into account the will of the people and to forge that will, making each one his own message. I suggest to the Macedonians patience. This Treaty and be ratified, will be annulled. You can see the word "freezing" from the word "nursing" only differentiates it by one letter. Everything that is ratified without society, without the people, is actually canceled. No one will be able to respect something condemned by the Greek people. You should know that. I would like to say something about the person who entered the Chamber, Mr Kammenos. If he really wanted to stop his partner in the tender that he was attempting, he had to stop him more in time. There was no need for the ship to sink and only five had to leave the ship. Earlier, Mr. Kammenos. There was a account on your part, speaking with your executives, that in Skopje they might get confused, they might not find the four, the eight. Even the day before yesterday, you went out and said you might not find the four. With so many Americans, with so many Germans behind him, could he not find the four? In the meantime, you once said that you had confidence in Kotzia, which you had said various things about. I don't know if they were investigated. You said about Soros, you said things. You said you had confidence in Kotzia. Going out of the Maximos Mansion sometime after meeting Mr. Tsipras, you said that you had confidence in Kotzia. Well, didn't you know they were going to sign something tender? What were you waiting for? Should they sign it first to see it with your eyes? Were you unfaithful Thomas? Did you have to put your hand on the "drum of the suns", or do you have to see the reducedness and then rise up? History will charge you not to block your partner earlier. You could have cut his legs. You could have deprived him of authority, Mr. Kammenos. That's right. It's a complaint from society, I don't make it up to you. I'm another party, it's only natural to criticize you. If you really wanted to prevent the Prime Minister from doing something that he was obviously going to do, you had to remove confidence in the government. Don't you want to vote on Mr. Mitsotakis' proposal of distrust? Don't vote for it. But there was the President-in-Office, there was the President of the Republic, and you could remove trust. If you had, it would have been a different opinion of society for you today. That's what I'm telling you. The prime minister before Mr. Kammenos even resigned, swore another Minister of Defense, an aptitude of the hierarchy, the Chief of HNDGS. Maybe you didn't understand the conversation, Mitsotakis. I don't know how he called her that conversation. I'll tell you something. It's not right for the judge to retire on the same day to take on a government post. The Association of Judges and Prosecutors asked to intervene five years first and then take up a government post by a retired judge. It's the same in the Army. You can't on the same day that you're a general, Major General, Brigadier General, on the same day swearing a political person. That is, within us, Admiral Apostolakis was an emblem of the Armed Forces' ally. Now that we see him on SYRIZA's benches, what do we say? We're saying he had to keep his dignity a little bit. Why right now? Wasn't anyone else found? Right away, it's bothering us! Mr. Mitsotakis may not have said so correctly, because Greeks are not always pleasant and rich. I guess that's what he wanted to say, not that he was incapable of Mr. Apostolakis taking over, but that he took over on the same day. He went with the military! That doesn't fit in a democracy. The example, of course, for Spantidakis was unfortunate, and that's why he corrected it, he took it back. Because Apostolakis is a democratic officer. I want to say something about the media too. It's very important. Where I come and I'm invited to an interview, he's always a right-wing journalist and a left man. Instead of leaving me 20 minutes that lasts every interview to talk about the views of the Centro Association, I get the time you ask me the right journalist and the left one. When I criticize them, they say, "You call us silver, you tell us paid." I didn't say that. But it's not a nice thing to share TV time, that is to say you'll be summoned to an interview for twenty minutes and end up talking for three minutes, because SYRIZA commentator, the commentator of the New Democracy, has to speak. This bipartisanism you're preparing is immoral. Every thinking man perceives this bipartisanism as being set up, that you are trying to bring the country back into bipartisan conditions. Those conditions, however, were condemned by society because they bankrupt society too. Because it wasn't just two-partyism, it was customer relations, it was the ruffles, it was the strife, it was all together, which created this suffocating tightening on the electorate. I would therefore like to say, before leaving this Chamber, a message to Macedonia. All you want to vote, whatever you want to do. However, the vote today and the vote in particular after two - three days that we will give for the Prespecies Agreement will carry us all our lives, those who happened to be in this House's term of office. Do not take lightly. Because I see you applaud with lightness, adopt lightly, circulate on all channels and say all the same "one betrayed so much, the other betrayed later, so one can also stand on the mistakes of the past". Prime Ministers do not come out to seal past crimes with further mistakes. Politicians come out to fix things. They can't? There's their house too! You are not the owner of this Chamber, nobody, Tsipras, Mitsotakis or Karamanlis! No one owns this Chamber! The Greek people are the owner and we must prove that we are worthy of this people! Otherwise, we are inferior to the circumstances! So I say to Macedonia: it will appear which party to the end will stand. And not for a vote. And no vote will give the Centroon Association in Macedonia. I see a real danger that the Skopje's gentlemen will have sights for the Macedonia of the Aegean. I see a real danger. And then, when they manifest that danger, there will be neither Tsipras nor Mitsotakis. There will be, however, Greece, which must defend itself! Then Greece will pay the cost of the predatory vote that you will give today and the much more prosperous vote you are preparing to give for the Prespecies Agreement. We are very sorry, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much. I would ask Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Potamio Parliamentary Group, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u254	Do you know what has made me a bigger impression, watching all these hours since the midday of yesterday, the debate in this House? The four of the six MPs, who suddenly saw the Syrian light and say they will vote for the government, hide and not speak. In other words, they refuse to explain their vote to Parliament and, of course, to explain to their voters what it is that causes them to be drafted without conditions with the government. Because obviously - and here we will all agree - a vote of confidence rewards the things that have been done so far and, above all, gives a 'white check' for the continuation of the government's policy. I would like to ask, therefore, whether Mr Kammenos's Members, to be added to the forty-five Members of the SYRIZA, agree with the Government's choices on the big issues before us? Let us say about the Constitutional Review, will the distinct roles of the Church - State be supported by those who have left the government? Does the SYRIZA's discharge for non-State universities agree with Spyros Dannelis, or in a month or two, will the government and Mr. Tsipras be looking for a new majority? I come to the most controversial. Mr. Kokkalis and Mr. Zouraris, who have made a career as Macedonians in television windows, will the Ambassadors agree next week? Have they committed this to Mr. Tsipras or is it a vote of confidence in a single use and direct performance? Because - and I have to make it clear, so that we do not completely lose our sense - a vote of confidence in the government must mean a positive vote for the press. While, on the contrary, positive vote for the Prespes does not mean a vote of confidence in the government. It's something the river has made clear in unsuspecting time. We are against the government, we are fighting its ideologies, without becoming ideological as well. Every Member of Parliament, however, of the new majority must make it clear today what he will do. And if he can't do it in time left, Mr. Tsipras should tell us. Unless it is intended that Members should remain demecconscenced, but this time in ministerial suits and not dresses. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I made a proposal to deal with all these phenomenon of Members' movements. I have proposed that we all commit that Members elected with one party do not change the parliamentary group during their term of office. I told you yesterday that the statutes of SYRIZA make things a little stricter. Someone who doesn't vote for the party line delivers his seat. I simply propose that we commit that no one can join a parliamentary group, while elected with another parliamentary group. I therefore look forward to the response of the Heads of State or Government, which has received three MPs from other parties, Mr Mitsotakis, who have received four MPs from other parties and obviously the answer of the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, who holds his government and with accessions to his parliamentary group and with all other Members of Parliament. Among them - I can only say it - and with MPs, who seem to have been given by Mr Kammenos with a promise, as they say in football. So since, ladies and gentlemen, we are all against the transcripts, we are all fighting for the transcripts, one is talking about rags, the other is talking about residues, the other is talking about protection, and today let us agree that we will not live these phenomena again. It also has a value for the citizens who are watching us and seeing the hypocrisy of the case. It may not solve the problem today and does not solve it, but it gives a stigma, that we understand our mistakes. A second smaller one, but not insignificant one, because I do not know how many Greeks did it, but I attended several of these speeches in the House these two days. A second, then, not trivial, finding that SYRIZA has done a great deal of school with the assholes and has influenced his opponents as well. I have heard Vice-Presidents stumbling their opposition to the forthcoming solution to the Macedonian. Clearly opposed. Who? Those who were saying to the journalists that when the agreement comes, we should see the international environment and the damage that the country can suffer if it suddenly finds itself on its own. There's a question if everything is grounded in the anti-Syriatic mill. But let's go to the big picture. I want to go back there. Does anyone worry about the breaches that appear in society? Are we thinking that apart from party lines, party victories and defeats, is there a country and an economy that doesn't say to step down? An economy that needs peace and stability. I don't know if you've been able to see, but the OECD today warned us that he's seeing downward trends in the Greek economy for the next nine months. We should also start to be alarmed by the fact that everyone now and not just in this Parliament, but even in the groups, they see each other suspiciously. We've lived these in the years of the antimony struggle, when the most popular accusation, even among friends, was the "German gala". And now the division is coming back with dramas. His expression, although at the level of ridiculousness, is the posters that appeared in northern Greece. To know, however, that they are not original and we should remember that once Athens was filled with posters by Mr. Samaras, Mr. Venizelos, Mr. Stournara. The antimony hoods were then proclaimed and we now have the nationalist hoods. In general, I think hooders are a nice profession in this country. They make fun of them, they get rid of them, anonymous people are, no risk they take, and then they go home and obviously see their achievements in the news reports and they laugh. But how are we going to drive out this austerity? The main responsibility lies with the government. The distances of the days have made the atmosphere even more toxic. On the surface all the pathogens of political life have come out, and logic has been tempered. A national issue, instead of giving rise to consultation, became a weapon in the hands of party staff. The government thought it would dismantle the Opposition and counterpopulation was fortified on its party lines. I don't know what we would have achieved with a National Security Council, which had persistently called for the Potami, but I think we couldn't have been any worse than we are today. But you will tell me this - the consultation on national issues, the national Councils, etc. - they are done in normal countries. Here the main concern of those who govern, but also of those who are conspiring in the premise of power, is the micro-party interest, the extinction of the opponent and their every sacrifice of political survival. Ladies and gentlemen, after ten years of crisis the Greeks have been exterminated. All energy in society is exhausted in small civils. But we deserve a Greece otherwise than a Greece of decline, of political amoralism. I said yesterday that we need to write new pages. The Greek people must soon be called upon to decide on these new pages. Potami insists he wants Greece otherwise. He insists that this story ends with elections. And that is why today he is voting against a failed government, asking - and the Potamio Members will do so - for the next time in every way, with every power to fight for the great political change that Greek society needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u255	The President of the Group of Independent Greeks, Mr Panagiotis Kammenos, has the floor. And for there to be no whispers and comments, the time to come in will be twice, because Mr. Kammens did not make a protagonist. In consultation with the President of Parliament, this is what happens. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I spend the 20th year in this Chamber, always elected by the Greek people and never appointed. Thirteen elections, two different parties, three electoral districts. I remember one of my first speeches in the Greek Parliament in 1993 when the debate on the Schengen Treaty had taken place. I then disagreed with my party, along with other Members. Some of them are here today. And I asked an old parliamentarian, the late Theodore, the reader, to advise me what to do, and he said, Go up to the Step and honestly say your opinion and document it. The House is the temple of democracy and within the House the deadlocks find solutions. Today we are discussing the proposal for a vote of confidence in the government, which was requested by the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, with which together four years ago we decided to make the National Covenant Government, with a view to getting the country out of the memoranda. However, this proposal for a vote of confidence has nothing to do with the government's statement. It has nothing to do with the commitments that this government must make to the budget that we decided a few days ago, and the Independent Greeks voted unanimously. This proposal for a vote of confidence is about a dilemma that the Prime Minister, in my opinion wrongly, has today brought to a debate, whether or not we agree with the Prespecies Agreement, with an international agreement which is a great decision on a national issue. I am therefore in the position of the Step of the Parliament, as head of the Independent Greeks, who have participated in the planning and implementation of the government work over the years, to be forced to vote 'no' in the vote of confidence in this agreement, with which I disagree, disagree and I shall disagree, following a consistent political line over the past twenty-six years that I have been in Parliament. I had the same position during the debate on the interim agreement with Costas Simitis, where there was the first major crime, the granting of the term "Macedonia" to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, the concession of the term "Macedonia" by the Greek Parliament. It is the interim agreement, supported at that time by the so-called European and progressive forces of the New Democracy. I then disagreed in 2007 when the Karamanlis Government made its programme statements calling for a name by geographical identification of erga omnes. And I also disagreed during the reading of this government's programming statements for the solution by geographical identification of erga omnes. My disagreements are recorded in the Minutes of the Greek Parliament with public speeches. The position we committed to keeping the Independent Greeks at our founding conference and in our declaration is that any solution must comply with the decision of the political leaders of 1992 under the President of the Republic of Kostantinos Karamanlis, who has never been overturned, that is, that the Greek state will never agree to any solution that contains as a complex name the term "Macedonia". This is our fixed position. It was my personal position and is the position of the Independent Greeks. We have never changed this position in the Greek Parliament, neither have I nor the Independent Greeks. We are therefore, ladies and gentlemen, at a critical time for our country, where two different points of view do not conflict, those who agree with the press and those who disagree with the press. Here are three different opinions, the one expressed by the SYRIZA Co-population, which says that we agree with the Prespes as they have been formulated, the view of Officerial Response, as expressed by its leadership, which says that we agree with the concession of the term "Macedonia" by geographical identification of erga omnes and the position that we and recently expressed by Mr Leventis. And I say recently, because in his earlier statements he had a different position from that, in public. I am saying this so that the Greek people and the generations who will later read the Minutes of Parliament will know what is at stake today. In the creation of this government and in the agreement made by the Independent Greeks with SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras, the Prime Minister of the country, with me, it was clear that we will never vote, we will not agree and we will not participate in a government that will grant the term "Macedonia". The assurance we had in June was that this agreement - and I had that assurance from the Prime Minister and from the Minister for Foreign Affairs Mr Kotzia - will come after the elections. Finally, this changed with the assurance of November that this agreement would come for discussion - and we discussed this again, when we had been with the Prime Minister - after March. So we have here twice the change in the attitude of my government partner toward us. And to be very clear about what I am saying, I would like to table two texts, which record history just as I described it. New Republic, 8 May 2017, one month before the debate of the New Republic's motion of censure on the case of the Skopje Agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u257	In 2018 it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u258	If you want, get the question. Here it is. It says 2017. He has a number 24 and is addressed to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Nikos Kotzias, on the subject: UNHCR statements, Mr. Kammenos, on Greek foreign policy in the Balkans. Since you want me to tell you more thoroughly, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you say: "In his recent interview on SKAI TV (May 7, 2017)... In 2017, Mr. Kumucako. Do you understand? It doesn't say 2018. Apologise for 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u259	We are talking about parliamentary control, not a motion of censure. Therefore, 2017 is parliamentary control and the motion of censure. That's the misunderstanding. Please, calm down. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u260	'... I am not going to accept the use of the term 'Macedonia'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u261	Read it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Kumucaco, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u263	He wants it all. So take it all: 'I therefore believe that the guarantee for the West is the creation of a Christian arch.' B) 'As far as Skopje is concerned, it is clear that the majority of the population are of Albanian origin. C) 'I am not going to accept the use of the term 'Macedonia'. As Mr Kumoucaskos and fifteen Members of the New Democracy have said, "it is necessary for the country's foreign policy to be exercised in consistency, responsibility and form, especially at a time when the situation in the Balkans is particularly fluid and critical." ‘According to the latest official inventory (2002 BOOK XIII, Skopje 2005, pp. 34) the total population of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia was 2,022,547, of which 1,297,981 or 64% are Slovenian people.' Here, then, Mr Kumoucaskos and the seventeen new Democratic Members of the New Democracy recognise citizenship of the Slavs of Skopje. [[Noise in the Chamber from the New Democracy Wing]] You want it all? You'll always take it all the way. "The 509.083 or 25.2% are Albanians." So the New Democracy continues. "According to the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with regard to the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Greece's official position is clear: a complex name with geographical identification prior to the word "Macedonia" that will apply against all (erga omnes) for each use, internal and international. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] "In view of the above, is the Minister for Foreign Affairs asked: Does he agree with the statements made by the HR? Is the HRC’s positions on ‘Christian Arc Creation’ reflected in the official position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? What is the country's official position regarding the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia? The one mentioned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the one declared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Are the reports of the HRF the general basis on which the Balkan policy of Greece is built?" Signatures: Koumoutsas Georgios. Georgiadis Adonis. Tsiara Konstantinos. Goodness Stavros. Simeon Cedoglobe. Anastasiades Savvas. Kefaloyannis Ioannis. David Athanasios. Athanasios barbass. Sweeping Wisdom. Prison Anastasios. Anthony Maria.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u264	I hope I don't have to invite you to class...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u265	There are others. I'm presenting it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u266	What do you think? Are you completely lost?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u267	Easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u268	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u269	Mr. Colleague, you're an old parliamentarian. He's talking party chief and you're asking why? What are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u270	You can walk with the henhouse. I'll never take you. Hit yourself down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u271	Get lost, you ridiculous!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u272	Please, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u273	The New Democracy, which today comes here to be...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u274	Get lost! Mr President, you have to give me the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u275	Mrs. Vulture, don't you know that the staff don't interrupt a speech? Put your hand down and ask for the reason when you have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u276	When is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u277	After the end of the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u278	Why don't you call him off when he's talking about a heavier?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u279	Mrs. Vulture, don't make me stand up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u280	Get up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u281	Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u282	He said he's heavier. Why didn't you call him back?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u283	Mrs. Vulture, please! When you ask for the floor under the Staff Regulations, say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u284	Take me to court and to the malicious courtroom. Wherever you want to take me. I'm not threatened by court. Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, take note of the fact that what applies to Members also applies to the parties' leaders.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u286	It also applies to the President of Parliament who has to ensure calm in the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u287	Nor do I accept it, nor do I accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u288	I'm not ignoring you. You tell her to sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u289	I think I protected you sufficiently. Please, calm down. Continue, Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u290	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u291	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Karaoglu, I decide without asking you. The words of Mr Karaoglou shall be deleted from the Minutes. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u293	A second document which I submit to the House to show how clear our position was. Foreign Minister Kotzias sends a letter to all the parliamentary parties on October 12, 2015, in order to express to the National Council for National Policy of July 22, 2015 our views on the case of the name of Skopje. As Chief of Independent Greeks and President of the Converging Movement of the Independent Greeks, we submit this letter, which is communicated to all parties and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Clearly it says: "Mr. Minister, dear Nico, referring to the letter you were kind enough to address me from 12 current on the views of my party on specific names, which could be considered acceptable to the pending issue of the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, I would like to inform you of the following: The Independent Greeks adopt the decision of the political leaders of 1992 under the chairmanship of the President of the Republic to not include the term "Macedonia" in the name of the state entity of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. They also consider that the decision of the Heads of State or Government at the Lisbon Summit in June 1992 to adopt the Greek position on the non-inclusion of the term 'Macedonia' or its derivatives in the name remains in force. Change of any political approach to the matter requires the convening of the Council of Political Heads under the chairmanship of the President of the Republic. Finally, the Independent Greeks consider that any name proposed by the International Ombudsman that does not include the term "Macedonia" or its derivatives and does not intercept Greek history and culture can be taken into account. Mr President, in the Minutes and both letters to show that our position has been quite clear from the beginning, in writing, and also in the Greek Parliament. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Independents Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are filed by the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to what has been said - and I have heard Mr Leventis - on the question raised, why did the Independent Greeks in June not vote on the motion of censure of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis against the Government, I shall begin with whether it was possible for the Independent Greeks to overturn the government. The results of the vote - Mr Dritsa said so beforehand - are here. Votes: 100 twenty-seven, including Dimitris Kammenos who left the Group of Independent Greeks, plus seven MPs of the Independent Greeks, a total of thirty-six. Whatever the government voted for had won the question of confidence in the New Democracy vote. I'm filing it in the House. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Independents Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, what if we were to throw the government and elections were held and New Democracy came out? Mr Mitsotakis was going to come in, as he says now in his interviews - as Mr Hatzinikolaou the other day - to negotiate a solution with a complex name with a geographical definition of erga omnes, that is, northern Macedonia, Greek people! Indeed, while he says he will not vote either now or after the Ambassadors' agreement, he will correct his interviews and says he will negotiate it. In other words, the question is not on the name, but on the terms. For the Greek people to understand where our differences are. And, of course, if we then threw the government, which we could not drop, the result would be that Greece would not come out of the memos, the social dividend would not have been shared, the decline in unemployment from 26% to 19% would not have been achieved, the increase in exports by 8% would not have been achieved. Two and a half million uninsured people who have the right to care would be on the street. They would not have given the retrospectives, they would not have left Greece since the memorial period and the concession of national sovereignty. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. That's why we didn't leave in the summer of 2018. And that's why we're here today, saying we're going to make the most of the effort. I would also like to assure you that there are neither borrowers nor credit players, as was said or implied. I have this parliamentary group, with these people I fight. These people follow me and others leave me. Others have chosen - and that is what I am blaming - the ministerial court for the vote of confidence and I have deleted them. And there are others who are not elected, Macedonians and supporters of our positions in public. Mr. Quick is here, who all over the internet is talking to him that says we'll never give the name of Macedonia. It's Mrs. Kundura, Mrs. Chrysovelonis. And of course, what I ask of my government partner is that, in an honest agreement, they cannot remain ministers to a government that we have created with honesty. That's the story. Are you looking to find out if we borrowed MPs? I'll do anything to keep the deal from going through, with a lot of soul pain, if you'd like, for the government, but in the belief that what I can do, I'll do it. You know I taught SYRIZA to write a few things on the right, but SYRIZA taught me some other things, that some tiny theories don't apply. For some of you, what they say in some villages is true: "The man when he tastes the candy, honey and milk is made with his household." Well, that's not true. We are the ones who disagree, we are erasing them...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u294	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u295	Listen to something. If, within the Greek Parliament, there is the misery of the MPs, I rise and leave the House now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u296	That's misery.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, I have covered you completely. And without the consent of the Member, I have deleted from the Minutes the contested phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u298	No, Mr President, bring them back to order, because these phrases are insulting to my face and insulting to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u299	What did you say "four" what was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u300	Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u301	We were just saying what Mr. Samaras said, sir! Mr Samaras said 'four' to Mr Nicholas. He's the one to resign. I reiterated to the House what Mr Samaras said to Mr Nikolaopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u302	Don't hold a dialogue, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u303	When the troika comes in, Samaras tells Nikolopoulos: "Start on four." These are your phrases.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u304	You said that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, do not engage in dialogue and do not go back to controversial phrases of the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u306	New Democracy has now reached its level. That's their level...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u307	Are you talking about level?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u308	...the level of those who, selling Macedonia and its name in violation of the principle that Constantine Karamanlis established and passed on to the Board of Political Chiefs, deliver the term "Macedonia" and now represent Macedonians. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this vote of confidence which has to do directly with the Treaty of Ambassadors is a vote which we do not give. At the same time, I would like to make it clear our difference and our deep disagreement, because we consider that this agreement, first of all, until it arrives here, has passed through these constitutional crimes in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, such as the absence of the signature of the President of the Republic, such as the violation of the outcome of the referendum, which was not valid and has shown that the majority of the Skopje people are against the agreement, all that has been done with the votes of the two - three Albanian minority Members, described in the OSCE report. And of course it is an agreement that has nothing to do with what you want to bring here - with the agreement signed by Kotzias. One should look at the recent history of our country to see why the village of Prespes was chosen. Despite the decades that have passed and the efforts made by the vast majority of political factions, the wounds of the past appear not to have been healed and the wounds have been alive. Professor of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and a close associate of the former Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the consultation of the pre-agreement, Mr. Spyridon Sfetas, in his book "Unwanted allies and uncontrolled opponents". The relationship between the JRC and NOF during the 1946-1949 Civil War, writes: "In the church of the village of Fishmones on 25 and 26 March 1949, the second Conference of the People's Liberation Front, which was the successor of SNOF, the Slavomacedonian People's Liberation Front, involving seven hundred representatives, was held and was addressed by the then leader of Nikos Zachariadis. The NOF Conference had issued a statement saying: The Second Conference of NOF will be a conference - a declaration by the new programming principles of NOF, principles which are the long-lasting desire of our people. He will declare Macedonia's union in a single, independent, equal Macedonian state, with the popular-democratic federation of the Balkan peoples, which is the vindication of his long-standing blood struggles." The government of SYRIZA, wanting to ensure its national success in the transfer of the name of Macedonia's history and culture, and fearing unexpected defeat and collapse, instead of politically provoking the ratification of the agreement after a referendum, seeks to encroach on the political forces of the country with the vote of confidence. This pre-consumer, which, in our view, has been signed, is anti-national and anti-constitutional and anti-democratic and anti-democratic. It is anti-national because it gives the Slavs, Albanians and other population groups of this political state the maximum part of Greek culture and history and, indeed, its most glorious part, Macedonian culture. It is unconstitutional because the Skopje constitution has been violated and the will of the majority of the people and of that state has been blackmailed. I would like to point out here, Mr President, that you must pay very close attention. Do not change the composition of the Committee on Foreign and Security in breach of the Rules of Procedure, because you will have a huge responsibility. It is undemocratic because there was no national consensus and national line in the Greek political parties nor was the Greek people's opinion asked. It is counter-progressive, because it is simply 80% of the Greek people who reject it. I know, Prime Minister, that you have an opposite view. Make a referendum and whatever the result of the referendum is that we all accept it. But the majority of SYRIZA's own voters reject it. And since this procedure of confidence in the SYRIZA Government is essentially misleading, we are obliged to vote against the same government that we have created, with honesty, clean and responsible support. I would like to invite you, Prime Minister, in the name of this four-year co-operation, to put the issue of the pre-agreement between the Greek people and the Prespecies in a referendum. And, personally addressing you, dear Alexis, as in 2015, despite our statements against the memorials, we were forced to implement another agreement - which we succeeded, you and your staff in July at the Eurogroup - different from the people's mandate we had. I will never forget our meeting that night of August when you said "Panos, I don't have the popular mandate to pass it either. We are going to elections in September to give us the mandate of the Greek people." I invoke this democratic sensitivity, I call upon you to take the view of the Greek people and call upon you to stop the debate on the vote of confidence, to accept before the Greek Parliament that we will go to the referendum as soon as possible and to commit all the political forces to following the decision of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u310	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u311	Calm down. Because the President has indeed mentioned many things in the name of Mr Kumucaku, he does not have to explain the staff for one minute. You will have two minutes, therefore, Mr Kumucako, to answer Mr Kammenos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kammens served once again his favorite sport, lying, falsifying, deforming, forming false impressions. He referred to a timely question to the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, which only meant, as it turns out, to find out what the Greek people were asking for, to understand the government's position on the name issue. So the question says to Mr Kotzia: 'Who is the country's official position regarding the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia? The official website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - whose head was Mr Kotzias - "or what the Minister of National Defence says?" That was the question. In this question, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have never received an answer. So far it has remained unanswered and remains unanswered because we had an informal response. On the margins of a National Foreign Policy Council I met with the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, and I asked him and said to him: 'Nico, you have not answered the question and that is anti-parliamentary behaviour'. The answer was: "I'm not going to do it, because you want me to expose Kammenos." That was the answer, in quotes. With regard to the Macedonians, Mr President, he did not read this intentionally and by falsifying, because I do not want to believe he does not understand. He writes the question: "According to the latest official census 2002, Book 13, Skopje 2005..." - i.e. the official Skopje census - "it states that the total population of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is 2 million people, of whom..." - says - "The scorpion census in 1.297, i.e. 64%, is Macedonians and 509,000, i.e. 25,2%, are Albanians". That's what Skopje's official census says. Even the Skopje call them Slavumacedonians. The government tells them Macedonians.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u314	One more thing I want to say ending.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u315	Close, Mr. Kumucako. The answer's over. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Calm down. In thirty seconds, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u316	Ten seconds. So because Mr. Kammenos ended up teaching a patriotism class in the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u317	It has nothing to do with this staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u318	One answer I want to give...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u319	The President of the Party will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u320	...to say that from patriots of the patriotism party the New Democracy does not accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u321	Mrs Vuldesis has the floor for two minutes, and if Mr Kammenos wishes, she will be able to answer for two minutes and then proceed with Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas. Here, Mrs. Vuldesis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u322	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Kammenos, having referred to and reported a horn-related manda, has reiterated something for poorer ones. I do not know, Mr President, what Mr Kammenos is doing with his horns, but I know that I am not going to tolerate anyone else in this Chamber, because he has done so before, implying on issues of morality and sexual impliedness. Mr. Kammenos the last time he referred to it, he promised to take pictures. Obviously, because there is no such subject, he did not bring any photographs and today he came back. But what should anyone expect, Mr President, from a man who has revealed to us today that all these years have not only lied to us and to the Greek people, but that Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos were lying to each other? And now they cry for each other and they say "You lied to me" and "why you told me like that and you didn't tell me otherwise." And now we'll expect to see him at Sunday's rally, because he's first taken off the variation suit and put on Paul Mela's closet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, for two minutes you have the floor, if you will.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, as far as Mr Kumucaco is concerned, he has admitted that he has actually tabled the question and, indeed, has referred to them as Slavicis Slavicians...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u325	But are you listening, Mr. Kammenos? The Skopje census says that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u326	It's much simpler...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u327	Mr Kumucako, you were clear. It has been written in the Minutes and those of us who know letters, we understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u328	What position does the New Democracy and Mr Kumoutsako accept? I do not need to listen to Mr Kumoutsakos. If we look at Mrs Bakoyannis' television attendance, she permanently repeats that the position is geographical, geographical identification, erga omnes, and, therefore, northern Macedonia. And if that is not the position of the New Democracy, I now ask that it be answered to make it clear to us too. That is what they always say, that erga omnes and northern Macedonia are their official position, and that is why he called on me and asked Mr Kotzia to fight me, because I, from this position agreed by both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the New Democracy, had a different view. It's clear things. As far as Mrs Vulture is concerned, I do not want to reply. But I will tell you the simple thing: Ms. Vultesis, as Mr. Varvitsiotis did today, who said that my late father was "slapping seaweed for silk ribbons in Syngrou" was a donor to his father, of course, and my best man, baptized my son...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u329	Mr. President, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, because we have entered personal...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u331	First of all, we're talking about people who aren't in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u332	He referred to the room. So, listen, he had asked a question about a son of a bitch, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u333	What does that have to do with the answer to Ms. Vultesis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u334	Mrs. Buddhism had made her. And then the horn was examined by the ILO and it turned out to be legal, it had paid taxes, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u335	But I didn't ask that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u336	And I told her I was taking her for a walk. So I tell her she wants me to take her back for a walk? I'm not taking her. That's what I told her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u337	What's he saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u338	Now if the ride on the horn is morally harmful to the horn, it is Mrs Vulletis's opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u339	But I didn't ask a question!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u340	No one wins with the heaviest and the tractors. We're done. Mr President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u341	Ladies and gentlemen, following the debate these days in the House, some of the Members of the government's majority with obvious discomfort, several times with superficial comments, with a massive effort to curb the facts and arguments, have dealt with the positions of the JRC. We are not, of course, talking about SYRIZA's well-known and unexplained trolley on the Internet, which they write at the suggestion of Maximos and Koumoundouros, even replicating well-known reactionary and anti-communist arguments, such as what his partner said up to a moment ago in the government. It seems, of course, that the alliances you're building apart from the ANELs, with marked anti-communist writers, finally catch a place, Mr. Tsipras. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] We are addressing, above all, the Greek people, youth and we are telling them clearly and dobra, something that neither SYRIZA nor other urban parties are used to. We are voting against the government that deceives the people with promises of the best so-called days that come into the memorial era, at the same time that it is committed to implementing a policy of lasting policy, a policy of bloody surpluses in the years to come. We are voting against the government which, after having charged the people with unsurpassed burdens to recover only the profits of certain business groups, after continuing the policy of the previous people who have cut wages and pensions, calls us today to celebrate why there will be no further reductions and a few very few of the high theft in recent years. We are voting against the government that is courageously calling for a progressive coexistence against the European Union's current neoliberal policy, while it has implemented all anti-grassroots, neoliberals, as it says, Community guidelines and has gladly collected Merkel's credit in Athens. We are voting against the government, which is calling for a coalition with the European Social Democrat Republic to be allegedly blocked on the right, hiding the enormous responsibility of the SYRIZA and of the social democratic governments which, with their anti-population policy, have helped the extreme right nationalist parties to fish in blur waters. We are voting against the delusional government that the imperialist alliance of the European Union can be changed today and become prologue. We are voting against those who are hiding that, behind today's reactionary policy of the European Union, the strategic interests of monopolistic groups are hidden and not just the ideals of some neoliberal parties and individual players. We are voting against the government policy that takes on the role of NATO's signifier in the Balkans, in the eastern Mediterranean, turning Greece into a military target and involving the people increasingly deeper and deeper into the dangerous bucket of conflicts between imperialist centres that have interests and intervene in the region. We condemn the government that, while it speaks of peace, turns Greece into a chain of US military bases. NATO was, is and will be a reactionary machine for interventions, wars, destabilisation of borders, as evidenced by its bloody historical path. We are voting against the Prespecies Agreement and in total the government's effort to chain the peoples of the Western Balkans to NATO's jail, in its policy of "divide and rule", by exploiting dangerous algidism and reactionary nationalism. This is an infamous agreement, which the people of the Balkans will pay dearly, first of all by all the Greek people. We are voting against a government which dares not even to go into elementary urban modernizations, such as simple and unadulterated simple analogues, the essential, necessarily today, complete separation of States - Church, the total abolition of Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers so that they can be treated equally with other citizens. It also does not go any further on abolishing the privileges of a government majority in the House to decide on the criminal prosecution of the ministers. It does not dare to go on even in matters that have been solved for too many decades in other capitalist states. We are voting against the government that cultivates the reduction of demands, the perception that it is supposed to be nothing better than what it alone does, which is responsible for defeat, the disappointment it has cultivated in popular layers that believed in its original deceptive announcements. We are voting against the government that pretends that it does not understand that its government cooperation with the extreme right-wing nationalist structure of Panos Kammenos, four years now, has given air to the right-wing rhetoric sails, has strengthened and strengthened the familiarization of part of our people with reactionary, backward slogans, shapes. It opened the way for further conservativeisation, reactivation of parts of the people, since populism, herring fascism of such positions found a suitable ground, both because of tolerance, poverty, unemployment, memoranda, crisis, the difference that followed by this government, by slandering principles, values, ideals and visions of the Left. No matter how much the government tries, it can't hide reality. Gentlemen of the government and the government majority, you are desperately trying to do black, white. You have the courage to appear as an adversary to neoliberal policy, at the same time that you are going to reduce state spending on social policy, reduce deficits, speed up privatisation, speed up flexible labour relations, that is to say, the policy that you are now pursuing, just like your predecessors. Even historical cultural monuments have been handed over to the supremacy which you, together with the institutions, appoint, which even intervenes in the Council of State against the archaeologists, the Municipality of Patras, many more municipalities, to stop this disgrace at last. But also the spectacular increase in the primary surplus for which Chancellor Merkel praised you - since you seem now to be a good student, did all of your lessons, faithfully following the illustration she had made in the previous one, as we all remember, her visit - did not fall from heaven. Improving our country's budgetary situation simply reflects the great attack on workers' rights, at their income in recent years. You have applied to antenna all the so-called Memorandum of Understandings, which the previous ones have voted for, for wages, for pensions and for taxation. You narrowed the attack on pensioners, who had started, before you, New Democracy and PASOK, and brought an increase in retirement limits and new reductions in pensions. You have reduced supplementary pensions by hundreds of millions of euros, you have drastically reduced the mains, you have crumbled the NSAs, you have scaled the raid on the popular layers, you have brought a spectacular increase in VAT, almost 10%, in many categories of goods that have kneeled the lives of the working people's family and increased a huge list of special taxes. You have achieved a brave blow to our islanders by raising VAT by 15% overnight, you have increased by nearly EUR 1 billion the special contribution of solidarity and reduced duty-free, povertying the Greek people. You have multiplied the taxation of farmers, because you want to give their shares to large agricultural capitalist holdings. You brought the Katrugalu law on insurance, the law on money laundering, which led to an increase in insurance contributions, drastically cuts in pensions. Now you say that after August the philosophical division comes, that economic policy can now be more yours and that you must be judged on it. You claim that next time things will get better for the workers. But, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the facts are stubborn. None of this is going to change the memorial period. Pensions are not going to go up, taxes will not be reduced, and you are about to prepare a new tax reduction that will lead to a new tax raid, wages will not return to levels before the crisis takes place, health and education expenditure will not increase, your so-called memorandum period has the same characteristics as the Memorandum. You arrive in real courage, when you do not hesitate to admit that the real surplus is more than 3.5% and that you are simply returning some money in the form of certain benefits that you are baptizing "suffering the wounds". The people of SYRIZA, a wound to the Greek people, are your own policy that is moving towards the constellation of the policy of the New Democracy of all the previous governments, and it is the supervision of the European Union that is also strengthened. In the context of EMU, the euro area, all the Member States are under budgetary supervision. Recent controversies with Italy highlight the truth, but in Greece's case surveillance continues to be strengthened. You are committed, as much as you are trying to hide it, to promote concrete measures in the next period and already come to Athens, the lenders are already inclined to check you out and are already calling for delays in making casinos at Attica with the Hellenic Convention, that you have not promoted auctioning in the first place to clear red loans, that you have been delayed in privatising the lignite power stations of PPC, which will lead to new increases in the already supergovernment for popular tariffs. The annex to the August agreement shows that "Manolios changed and put his clothes on." The measures you have already signed in the third assessment, but also in general, extend far beyond 2019. Workers know, from their own experience, the huge lie that after August things are different. The memorials before and after August could well have been written by BSE or other employers' organizations. Greece, your capital, Greece, to survive in Greece, in Greece, in Greece, in Greece, of the Greek people who are struggling. At the same time, your policy cannot give, nor will it give, solid solutions, even to this capitalist development that you publish. You do not see or do how you do not see that capitalism is moving towards a new crisis internationally. The international economy is slowing down, the euro area is facing major problems, Britain is leaving with drum impacts and, at the same time, May does not get a majority in its proposal for a Brexit coordinate. Its political system is in crisis, protectionism prevails and international preparations for all kinds of war are becoming more and more evident. At a time when you promise an increased rate of growth, we are internationally heading towards a new capitalist crisis that an economy as open as the Greek steam engine which, as you say, is tourism and international transport - really has the prospect of kneeling. The inappropriate course towards the sky of capitalist development you promise is one more of your unbearable lies or even worse one of these ridiculous things, but extremely dangerous for our people, for our country, deceptive of some of you. Some realists, of course, also think about them when they don't come in here to say their usual theoristic Marxist strings. You have learned nothing from the history of Greece, from world history. You are untreatedly persecutors, opportunists, able to reach only the step by the consistent political staff of a group, the therapists of the Americans, Germany and everything else that they wanted. So who can give you a vote of confidence? Only all the above, who've already given it to you, and those who've put them in their pockets and held them in their hand. And now they're keeping you well in your hand, and the accident is that you're already getting tired of it, as it seemed from this two-day conversation in here. The Greek people, however, see the bazaars, see the buy-out that is done here, which is done by all of you parties, except the JRC, with the transcriptions, with the moves from one party to another overnight. And you're all on this, from the Yankee Left of Reform and not the Revolution, to the Top Right of the Nazis. People go and come, and that is why the Greek people rightly disgust with them and with all of you. Gentlemen of the government, no one has confidence in you either what you are saying or what you are doing, so the people must say their final word and decide to give you the real lesson that you deserve, and the rest of your power suitors, who have also met them very well all these years and from good and backward. Now he has to take the step with the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u342	Thank you. I call on Mr Nicholas Michaloliakos, President of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reputation of a parliamentary coup is very much circulated at this time and that, following a change in the recommendation of the committee responsible, it is within the next two days, by express procedure, you will pass the Ambassadors' agreement. I denounce this method - although it is true - and I stress that the '151' you are getting today does not represent parties. Many of this majority have remained in their parties. So you have no right to change the committee's recommendation. I move on to the big issue we are discussing, the vote of confidence in the government, which we have not given, and we are not going to give, despite all the dirty propaganda and mud that exists at the expense of the Golden Dawn, that we are in collaboration with SYRIZA. That is what the New Democracy is saying. On the SYRIZA side again, they say that we are in cooperation with the New Democracy. Actually, we're not with any of you. We are with the nation, with the history of a new Greece, about the Golden Dawn of the Greeks, for which we are literally fighting against all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u344	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u345	For the truth, these two days we had various procedures in this area and, on the other hand, we had the media of mass information, which magically omit any reference to the Golden Dawn. I am presenting in the Minutes the report of Mr Alfouzouzou, which mentions all political leaders except us. A ghost is literally deceived in Parliament and in public life, a ghost for you, but it is a reality. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michalliakos presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] At the same time as we are faced with the dissolution of five parliamentary groups and translations are being made and the House is reminiscent of a five-five-playing basketball championship - the five-five is playing the role of having a parliamentary group - we have three parties, the Central Association, the Potami and the Independent Greeks, who are sinking in public and barely having a parliamentary group. However, they all have a wonderful projection from the media, from the leaflets of intertwining and the channels of intertwining. On the contrary, we see the Golden Dawn completely excluded and, of course, the Government, which had to secure the pluralism required by the Constitution. As much as the parliamentary authors are missing us, however much as the television stations disappear us, as much as we are the contractors of interlocutory and national dividends, the Golden Dawn rises and remains the country's third political power. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] And if I'm talking right now in this order and not after the PASOK, it's because some transcriptions that everyone denounces have been made and the current composition has been formed. The President of the ANELs, Mr Kammenos, referred to the Kotzia letter to the leaders of the political parties. It was October 2015 when I was the only political leader who brought this letter to plenary and reported that he became a secret diplomacy and attempted to sell out the name "Macedonia". No one else spoke. Extreme tomb silence! Only Golden Dawn remembered Macedonia's name in 2015, to end today. However, I would like to ask another question on this matter. We are speaking - and this has been done, in an emphatic way recently, on the occasion of the murder of a Greek man, the nationalist Constantine Katsifa in the North continent - for the North continent, and we are told that this is nationalistic, it is fascist. Why does the "North Continent" bother and does not "North Macedonia" bother? Really, how do you accept it? And since we have spoken about betrayals, and you do not like to hear the term 'prostitution' or the word 'prosecutors' - you consider it nationally dangerous and biasing - you should at least avoid raising the issue of Macedonia, because you are in debt. In fact, your new political partner, Mr Kammenos, mentioned the UNOF conference in Prespes, has already mentioned this. He kind of remembered it. So let's talk about the Prespes, where in January 1949 - and I don't know how random it is and you chose the Prespes for this agreement - the 5th Plenary Session of the Central Committee of the JRC took the decision: 'The result of the victory of the Democratic Army will be for the Macedonian people to find its full national restoration'. How can you say that? It's not treason? On 19 September 1932 Rizzospasti wrote: "A call to the Macedonian people, who live under Greek domination." What's that? It's not treason? Third Conference of the JRC, December 1924: Validation of the decision of the Balkan Communist Federation, where it speaks of an independent state of Macedonia and of the right of Macedonia and Thrace for national self-determination. Isn't that treason? If it is not treason, then what you have to say about what the historian of the Left himself, Ioannis Kordatos, who deleted his party, the JRC, although he was a secretary to this and director of the "Rizzospast". So he wrote in 1926 John Cordatos: "The Communist International exercised its influence and pressed at the party's special conference in November 1924. The end of irrationalism was the motto of Macedonia's autonomy. This policy was dismayed by the workers, because communism in Greece appeared as an ally of Bulgarian chauvinism." That's what Cordados says about the Left. In addition to these, however, we have, as we had to do, raised the question of the validity of the Prespecies Agreement, referring to specific articles of the Agreement, such as what Skopje sees as the successor of Yugoslavia and recognises its bilateral agreements. Here, in this Chamber, a New Democracy MEP replied and said: "If this agreement is finally passed, a situation arises that is not reversed. After the adoption of the agreement, no government and no Prime Minister will be able to cancel it." It is quite simply said by the New Democracy that if this agreement is passed, which, with the majority of you, will pass, there is no way to abolish it. Really? And the Bucharest Treaty, which defined the state of Yugoslavia which was broken down, what happened? Looking at the subject, you refer to the 1969 Convention on the Law of the International Agreements in Vienna. Make a search on the Internet and you will see the following: Legislation 402 of 23 March 1974 on ratification of the Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaties. The Treaty of Vienna has never been passed by the Greek Parliament. It is a decision of the regime of 21 April, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Also, in his speech, the New Democracy MEP said that it could not be cancelled because this is the case in the last article, paragraph 9, which says that the provisions of this agreement will remain in force for an indefinite period of time and are irrevocable. No amendment to this Agreement referred to in Articles 1(3) and 1(4) may be made. Let's go to Article 1(3) and 1(4), which is clearly mentioned - and I said this to you last time - the following: paragraph 4e: the second part, namely Skopje, will be completed intototo, i.e. in full, constitutional amendments by the end of 2018. Today, January 16, 2019, it has not been completed entirely, since they have not been published in the Official Journal. There's been a lot of noise at the expense of the Golden Dawn by many here. I have responded to treason and answered, and I am not going to receive it, because history remains and stigmatizes. As far as what has been said about a vulgar party is concerned, a vulgar party is a party that has signed memorandums providing for the assignment of national sovereignty. There is no greater vulnerability than the assignment of national sovereignty. There is no greater vulgarity than the reduction in the income of the Greeks, of GDP, of 25% with the memoranda, with the poverty, with the scandals, which exist. Of course, there is no more vulgarity, gentlemen of the New Democracy - because of you this vulgar party has been heard - than if you wanted to work with PASOK, the Tsochazopoulos PASOK, Papantoniou and Anthopoulos condemned for taculty. This is vulgar and not the nationalism of the Golden Dawn, which is incompatible and inappropriate, fighting for a new Greece literally against all. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The New Democracy has also talked about the dissolution of the state and what is happening in the name of the famous university asylum. Unfortunately, this was also done in the New Democracy. I remember very typically many of her ministers saying that they will close the 'INDYMEDIA', that they will restrict it. They couldn't do anything. Against all this, there is a new Greece that comes and a people who have been on the streets and where to stop it you are thinking of laws completely undemocratic. You imagine a so-called parastate, supposedly threats. There's no parastate. It is the people who have been on the streets, the people who will not give up and will continue to fight for Macedonia, which is one and a Greek and we do not give it to anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u346	I call on Mrs Fotini Genomemata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Alliance of the PASOK - DIMAR. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u347	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Tsipras, what you denounced from this Step yesterday in the House that you were supposed to be fighting is exactly what you and your government policy are. They don't need much. Just look in the mirror. Client state, institutional depreciation, complexity, depreciation of institutions. Do you know what this whole thing reminds me of? Dorian Grey's portrait. What you said yesterday in here formed your real face. As a so-called expressor of hope, it turned out that you yourself are older than the old. From a so-called left-wing expressor to power, it turned out that you were too easy to turn your back on your partners and rule with the extreme right, which was a conscious choice. That's how you became the left-hand barber. It has been shown by a so-called expression of progress that you only wanted to conquer power by every means. What did you do about it? You used your deep-right institutional systems. Is that why they're returning it now? You gave forgiveness to the Karamanli period. Oh, of course. But how else would it be for all the evil PASOK and Papandreou? You'd rip the memorials and rip the middle class. You passed the nipple on the neck of the Greek people. You are splitting up today with your manipulations of society. Honestly - I will tell you by hand in the heart - I have raised the other day by listening to Mr Tsipras from this step, in the House, to scratch the wounds of civil war, from this very step that Andreas Papandreou and George Gennimatas have shut down these wounds. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] At this point I would like to say that we strongly condemn the targeting of Members, any threat, any attack on Parliament and on democracy. This is another big difference between us and you. Have you now been disturbed, Mr. Tsipras, over eight years? We will be stable and forever against anyone who tries to restrict the expression of public speech and the political view and position. We will be opposite to protect even those who were leading violence and pre-conflicts against PASOK government officials in previous years with Mr Tsipras' guidance and tolerance. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We believe that political differences are only solved in the poll, but there, Mr Tsipras, the Greek people are waiting for you. You have promised the public property, the monuments to the excess, from the White Tower to Knossos, to the tombs of the Venizelos. Uh, how can Mrs. Merkel not smile at your side after all this? You've left nothing. All decisions are burdened with you personally, all anti-popular policies that your so-called left government has been implementing in recent years. He said something about your partner, I remember, during the '15s election period - if I'm not mistaken - in those second elections that you would never have done, yet you did them, and you consciously ruled again with Mr. Kammenos. So he said at various spots: "I'll teach him to write on the right too." But you, Mr. Tsipras, overdoed it. Now only on the right are you always writing and signing. That's the worst of all. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And now you do not hesitate to do the declared karoo, the very basis of democracy. If you have the declared, Mr Tsipras, if you do have a hundred and fifty Members who support you, vote with these 50 Members and the agreement you made on the Prespecies. The one you wouldn't bring? The one that was going to the next government, like you said? This deal. Who and what's stopping you? A majority of them in the republics do not exist, Mr Tsipras. Democracy is not a numerical one, it is a essence. Democracy, of course, must confess that it has lived far better in Athens than it knows with you. And I wonder, really, what relationship the loaning right-wing extremes who support you may have with the missing people on the Left who voted for you, hoping and looking forward to better days and what relationship all of them may have with the MPs and SYRIZA executives, historically and not. None. This review doesn't favor you. Whatever we remember from the works and the days of your government, one thing is certain: you are the loser. There is no water of oblivion for the damage you have done in the place and there is no "Siloam's collapsor" for your sins. The problem is that every day that passes with you Prime Minister and with which your government, opportunities are lost for the country and above all opportunities are lost for every Greek and every Greek woman. Mr. Tsipras, I know you're having a hard time accepting it, but make the decision. You're done. Get out of here now. This is all you can offer at this stage. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I know you're afraid, you're shaking the Greek people's judgment. That's why you've been trying to win a few more months in power, in every way and with every excuse. Now he's caught you, he says, pain because you didn't have time to complete the work you'd like. However, to finish with this whole case of critical issues, what have you done two years to warn you that the abolition of the laws of PASOK for the protection of first home will lead to the auctioning of first homes of small and medium-sized borrowers? Nothing. What have you been doing for months, which we have been proposing to set minimum wages, through dialogue between the social partners and the national general collective agreement? Absolutely nothing. We also tabled them as a proposal for a law. We challenged you here to vote. You're completely indifferent. The same hypocrisy comes as far as the institutions are concerned. Now you want to complete the constitutional review. Two years you have delayed, with supposedly fissile, by passive procedures, and now you are struggling for all the debate that has taken place in the committee. Has any Greeks dealt with what was discussed in this House, what are the proposals of the parties? You started it and finished the constitutional review with your speech. You have shown your intentions when we talked about this issue here in Parliament. But listen, because the place needs elections, so that we can end this 'difference', the excuses you are presenting, I would like to make a suggestion, and I would like to describe a few steps that I think we need to agree on, so that we can get away from all these deadlocks. First, Mr Tsipras, here's the election date. Secondly, we have a good time to vote on the revision of Article 86 - I repeat, to vote on the revision of Article 86 - on the responsibility of Ministers and, of course, on all the other articles in which there is broad agreement of the parties. Third, we're going to national elections. And fourthly, we are finally all committed to what will be the next bill the next government will bring to Parliament. This bill must cover the provisions, including the proposal for a law that the Change Movement and Parliamentary Group submitted to this House... [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] ...and in particular issues relating to the increase of the minimum wage, through the national general collective agreement and not by ministerial decision, the protection of the first residence of small and medium-sized borrowers, without discounts and, of course, the hundred and twenty instalments for the repayment of liabilities to the public and insurance funds. We're committed. I call on Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis to commit today by the Step of the House that this will be the priority of the next government, whatever it may be. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We are also committed, of course, to setting up a special intergroup to discuss societality and without haste for the distinct roles, the distinct relations of the State - Church, and of course, we must pursue a serious dialogue with both the Church of Greece and the Patriarchate, but also with the clergy - to end all the pretexts. You must therefore all place yourself today and take a clear position. Ladies and gentlemen, uncertainty and insecurity hold us back. I told you yesterday we were shooting at our feet. Wake up at last. That is why I tabled this proposal, so that we can leave behind the daft, the suffocation, the inertia. It needs a change of page, no doubt, we want a new principle with growth, with social justice. And it's clear that Mr. Tsipras can't be. He's toxic. And the point is that we don't trust him. The big problem is that the Greek people no longer trust him! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You're tired, you're measured. It's been recorded that you're a little bit. Let's go down! Now you'll tell me how we'll go later. It is clear that Mr Mitsotakis' right is not a solution. She insists on her conservative recipes. All it seems is that longing to regain power. Unfortunately, he is very conscious of polarization and division and does so for two main reasons: one is to cover up, one does not actually disagree with the very extreme, anti-grassy austerity policies that Mr Tsipras has been carrying out all this time. And the second reason is that through this polarization she hopes to rally and gather her pieces. That is, once again, the priority is the small-party interest and not the country! Dividing and polarizing only in new adventures and deadlocks can lead the country. We, the Change Movement, the only expressor of the Central Left and Social Democracy in Greece - oppose the imitations and efforts to copy, specialising in the make and the copy - paste -... [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] ...we are asking for a clear mandate and we are asking for a clear mandate to unite the Greeks and guarantee progressive governance, but this time, real rather than polluting, like what we have been living in recent years. So let the road with our 'no' to today's vote be opened. And with our 'no' to this vote we will then lead to the polls, because that is what the Greek people demand. And from the poll this time, Mr. Tsipras, you will come out and be lost and burned! Because your co-government with the extreme right Mr. Kammenos will be the mark that will follow you. So we don't give a board of salvation to a government that collapses. Against your division, we have a unified message and we send it to the Greek people. You're setting up walls. We build bridges, bridges, solid and stable, bridges of hope and perspective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gennamas. I very much urge Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u349	Ladies and gentlemen, what has been going on in this Chamber since yesterday fully confirms my initial assessment that this is not a normal sitting of the House on the basis of a vote of confidence in the government, but on the last act of a policy of pragmatism. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is another parliamentary manoeuvre, which has three objectives: the first objective is to get Mr Tsipras into power for a few months, the second to pave the way for the nationally harmful Prespecies Agreement and the third to be kept alive, even with a political inhaler, the political structure of the ANELs. If the citizens who have followed this two-day process had a profit, they have seen in live transmission the sad level at which the political life of the country is leading, this disgrace of the interlocutor between SYRIZA and ANEL, in order to form temporary connections. In the morning ANEL, at night SYRIZA. The cradle of the ANELs, as a party of accordions, Members of Parliament, give a vote of confidence without being deleted, so that Mr. Kammenos can maintain his prerogatives as head of a parliamentary group. Ministers from ANEL remain in their positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u350	Be quiet, please. Go on, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u351	I wonder, Mr Tsipras, if Mrs Papakostas, Mrs Koudouras, Mr Kokkalis, would have given you a vote of confidence if you had removed them from the government. I think everyone knows the answer to that question. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There are other ANLE MPs who are voting for Mr Tsipras for Prime Minister. They have publicly stated that they will support the government in this vote of confidence, but they have at the same time declared that they do not vote for the Embassy Agreement, thus disagreeing with your central political choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u352	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u353	And one more thing that made me very impressed. Mr Theodorakis pointed it out. Four of the six Members who have publicly expressed their intention to support the government, three ministers, Ms. Koundoura, Mr. Kokkalis, Ms. Papakostas and Mr. Zouraris, did not even bother to go up to the Step and explain their vote. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Two are in China and two are making the Chinese! [[Applause and laughers from the New Democracy ward]] Never has this Parliament, never has our Parliament's citizens suffered such an equilibrium. You made the unprecedented, Mr. Tsipras. You became the Greek Parliament, reminding the recent image of the Skopje Parliament. Gyroles politicians to haggle a new roof, forgetting what they were saying yesterday and insulting their voters, who, for other things, have elected them, and a government that does not seek support, acceptance of society, but a hundred and fifty-five Members of Parliament who will be associated with the impeccable thread of power. For that will be the way to pass, ladies and gentlemen, tonight's evening in history, as the night of voting in a government of 'quarrel'. And by the way, and because they all plead that this anticipation of the transaction is made on the basis of a plan, I would like to warn you: Forget, Mr Tsipras, express procedures and secret medals, to pass the harmful Prespecies Agreement through the House. The debate on the Prespecies - and I address the President here and the President of this House - must be done with the comfort of the time when the seriousness of the matter imposes on her. All the Members who want to speak will be heard and everyone will assume their responsibilities! [[Vibrant applause from the New Democracy Wing]] One more thing. Because there is a lot to be heard in the halls of the House in the last few days, do not think of changing the composition of the parliamentary committees, which falsify the real powers of the parliamentary groups. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For, Mr Tsipras, even if you have a vote of confidence today from a hundred and fifty Members, your group will number a hundred and forty-five Members, unless you join your parliamentary group Mrs Kouduras and Mr Kokkolis, so you will cause a problem for Mr Kammenos and that will ruin the agreement you have built up. But you will be de facto a minority government, and that will be reflected in Parliament's committees. That's what the Constitution defines, and this is what Parliament's Rules of Procedure stipulate! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Finally, you understand that in a parliamentary democracy, the parliament controls the government, not the parliament, and parliamentarianism has its own inalienable rules and cannot be synonymous with political turbulence. Ladies and gentlemen, since the debate in this House and from what the political leaders have said yesterday, the citizens have had the opportunity to draw some useful conclusions. In conclusion, first, since yesterday's presence, Mr. Tsipras. Mr. Tsipras lied, took authority, liarly managed it, and lying would abandon it. We were presented yesterday, once again, with a virtual reality. With an excess of shame it has offended not only our memory but also the reality that citizens themselves experience. And as an actor who now lives his role, he informed us that he has devastated the memorials, that he has protected the poor and that he will finally bring growth. I'd say, Mr. Tsipras, take off the mask, get off the stage and listen. You didn't find the country submerged and saved it but saved and submerged it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In 2014, the economy had returned to a positive growth rate. The climate on the market was improved. The optimism had come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u354	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u355	And yes, the country was coming out of the memoirs, and then you came and we know what happened! We had a third memorial. Third memorandum with your signature!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u356	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u357	And an informal fourth memorandum that imposes us austerity lasting. So stop the miserable, fake comparisons. Greece almost went bankrupt, "dead", but in 2014 it came out of the crisis, so that you could come back in the first destructive half of 2015, get it back on the edge of the cliff! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is now coming up with the story of the so - called standing society, the great relief of the weakest! You've made the poorer and more. You charged the citizens with twenty-nine new taxes. Twenty-nine new taxes and seventeen extra charges for pensioners! You abolished the ESS. You have increased VAT, especially in the products that the poorest are paying for. I would like to remind you that in 2014, the country had reduced VAT to 13%, it had reduced insurance contributions by 5%, it had reduced the solidarity levy by 30%, and today you come and offend the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u358	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u359	It's true!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u360	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u361	You insult the Greeks with promises, benefits, a few opposites of the many you took them. You have taken 10 billion measures, Mr Tsipras, you are returning to 1 billion and you have the courage once again, to represent the gracious one in a society that has levelled it. You're not just destroying the present, but you're drugizing the future. Greece is still out of the market today, on surveillance, with the OECD just anticipating a slowdown in its economy, Mr. Tsipras. The commitments of the surpluses in the fourth memorandum mean new austerity and investment dedication, while the state is growing and increasing its exact bureaucracy with your party ruptures. But it reduces its services to the citizen. A tragedy in Matty. I want to see if you ever find a word to say about this show, which you set up that night, when we know all the truth that you knew then that there were dead. I would like to see whether you will speak about this once. I want to see, too, if you're going to talk about the crime in the neighborhoods, about the situation in the hospitals, so that's why the unbelievable sewage was going on in education. This is SYRIZA's measure for the public. Did you hear what happened yesterday at the "Attica" Hospital, Mr. Tsipras? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The workers' association issued a statement denouncing that the general newspaper was blocked by a lack of beds and that human lives are at risk. Instead of dealing with all this, your relevant Minister is causing and tramples judges on Facebook. But as I told you, Mr. Paulakis, he's the mirror of your own behavior, your ethos! You chose him, you supported him, you embraced him. Paulakis is Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Taxes, unfair social burdens, customer state, dismantling of social structures. These are the results of your policy. That is the answer to what you have presented yesterday with such a veil and hypocrisy as your report. A second conclusion was drawn by the citizens who attended the debate. In the name of power, this government does not hesitate to do anything. But with her, she's been pulling the gutter all the political life. Because despite the so - called divorce everyone sees Tsipras and Kammenos, basically, walking together. They exchange MPs, they exchange votes, they exchange Ministries, while around them there is an unprecedented philosopher of politics. Protagonists change their minds in the morning, noon, at night. Cynthologists change party Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and consciousness Monday, Wednesday, Friday. This antagonism, this equation of politics with an unprecedented political illusion causes general disastrousness. It disturbs deep civilians. It disturbs, I'm sure, and many citizens who believed in you, Mr. Tsipras, and in your conditions for supposedly new morals in politics. But now they are disgusting and regretting twice, because they hear the Prime Minister himself, justified by distractions and in vain arguments. What did you say yesterday? That everyone does that, Mr. Tsipras. Not everyone is like you. Fortunately! And it is true that many parties and the New Democracy have recently accepted the cooperation of MPs. But everyone had either independently or been deleted from their parties, at least one year before they joined the New Democracy. And everyone, Mr Tsipras, are politicians of counter-population, who have moved to another party of anti-population, without having any opposite positions. They didn't go from Opposition to Complex to get a Ministry!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u362	Katsikis elected with the DENA of Stefanopoulou to which government did he go?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u363	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u364	Katsikis with the Mitsotakis government didn't go?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u365	Stop it, Mr. Philly! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u366	The Katsikis where he went as a hundred and fifty-five-first MP?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u367	Mr. Friend!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u368	You again, Mr. Friend? What kind of irritation is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u369	Mr. Philly, please! Now what exactly are you doing? Dialogue? You have no right to interrupt. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u370	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u371	Yeah, you're sorry, after you interrupted three times! I'll call you back to class and then you'll have to go outside. Mercy! Mr. Mitsotakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u372	You see, some posts cannot be provided by the opposition, but only by the government. Unless you think we're already government. You did something that has no precedent. You offered ministerial posts to MPs elected with the opposition. The whole of Greece knows them. They have not dared to appear in this Chamber. I guess they're going in at the last minute 'in the zuca. We have a vote on a list, I hope, not on a card, Mr President. Isn't that right? Because the 'yes' must be heard at the last minute to exchange their vote with the ministries you have offered them, without being ashamed of them, and obviously not of you, who have legalised this bazaar.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u373	Please! Hang in there!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u374	It's true. What are you disturbing about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u375	And you, Mr. Georgioda, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u376	I wonder how you, too, feel, who was devised by a politician who called Mr Tsipras 'a sad and provocative amoralist' and you are working with others who called you 'the most dishonest Prime Minister of Postmultimatisation', while the fifty-fourth-first MP might be someone who voted against your budget and has supported reproach against you. At least I recognize to him that he had the courage to go up to this Step and try to justify his opinion. After deciding to house the whole old system, all those who expelled the PASOK and the remains of the mistakes of post-multiple, now drop a step down. You accept to become the third, fourth, the fifth attitude of each political kiloologist. Your good way, Mr Tsipras, and a little attention to the turns. And because you told us yesterday - you will tell us today, I imagine - on the occasion of the Prespecies Agreement that once again you are coming here and doing your patriotic duty, listen to me. If you were conscious of your responsibilities, you wouldn't have had these manipulations in the national theme. You wouldn't have used it consciously to split the Greeks. You wouldn't work it out for party reasons. You made the foreign political tool for undermining national unity. You played consciously with national issues for micro-political reasons. I also remember the President of Parliament 11 months ago that Skopje will be redeploying political ties. This is not patriotism, Mr. Tsipras. That's called a homicide. And yet another thing today, the superstition that you created with your vote, you who said all these fines before the January 2015 elections, to assign the national property for ninety years, asks that, in appealing to the Council of State, the historical monuments of the country be transferred to it. Patriotism...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u377	Lies! You're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u378	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u379	Mr. Chauffeur, because you're wearing the same red sweater as Mr. Friend, it doesn't give you the right to interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u380	Mr. Chakaloto, please, stop, stop interfering.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u381	But he's lying, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u382	Please, Mr. Chakaloto, do not interfere. You spoke yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u383	You've done enough damage in the country's present and future. Respect at least her past!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u384	Be quiet, please. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u385	And one more thing about comparisons. You had the courage yesterday, Mr Tsipras, to accuse us that we Members are supposedly terrorized, not to support the proposal of confidence. And you said that. You. Well, listen up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u386	Quiet, please, stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u387	Why such nervousness, gentlemen of SYRIZA? You probably see your end coming, and you know that after the next election, it's a question of being half the people here. It's all right, get rid of it as long as you want. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr Tsipras, every citizen has the right to give his opinion to his MP. Besides, don't forget he's his representative. What is not allowed is threats, vulnerabilities and, in particular, violence. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The New Democracy is against all forms of violence from wherever it comes. But who exactly wants the change here? Who's asking us for the change? You who set up hangings in the Constitution? The ones you smiled at when our MPs were collapsing? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You guys talking about "sold German germans"? And you were all saying the same thing. You printed our Member's posters voting for memorials. With the Golden Dawn you met in the paths of violence and trabucism. [[Sustained applause from the New Democracy Wing]] And will you abdicate us that we're supposed to be terrorizing MPs? You, Mr. Tsipras, who, if I'm not mistaken, told us that it doesn't matter if molotov falls, but does it matter to which side they fall? You were, Mr. Tsipras, the political leader of all these behaviors. You were the spiritual father of the theory that there is good and bad violence and that her discernment depends on the good intentions of what exercises it. You have a huge responsibility, a huge personal responsibility for the toxic climate that the country has experienced, this climate that you are even trying to revive today. I conclude with the third conclusion from this two-day debate. Fortunately, SYRIZA - ANEL, merged now, were left alone in this catechism. In short, democratic opposition is standing against the bazaars and diversions and also with the vulgar provocations that you once again evoked yesterday. And instead of responding to us, Mr. Tsipras, about the political anthropologists, about your changes, you referred to the Papademos government, a successful government... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] A government that enjoyed Parliament's confidence. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It was supported by two hundred fifty-five MPs and three parties. And, yes, he had headed a renowned technocrat. He abandoned the safety of his career to offer his place... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And who later almost got murdered. So stop! Stop it! Because you cultivated this toxic climate! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] He stayed in the hospital for months! He's been in the hospital for months!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u388	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u389	Don't say that, though. He should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u390	You too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u391	Please, everybody be quiet. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u392	And you, Mr Tsipras, didn't even have the sensitivity, go over there once and for all. But these are the little behaviors that show the size of each political man. And you also tried yesterday to distort what I said about the Ministering of an active military. I repeat once again that my criticism was not so much about Admiral Apostolakis, whom... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Yeah, I'll come to these.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u393	Quiet, please. Please, Mr. Constantine! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u394	That's how he knows how to behave, so he's acting in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u395	Please. Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u396	You see, everyone's habits are being brought to this room. That's not what's changed. Well, Mr. Apostolakis made a mistake because he did not respect the distinction of roles between the highest military leadership and the political leader of the Ministry of National Defence. But my criticism is primarily about you, Mr Tsipras. Because the merchandise for the country must be honoured, not tangled in the nets of our party interests. It cannot be said, Mr Tsipras, that on one night he will become Minister, as in one night the President of the Ice Bay cannot be your adviser and then the chairperson of an independent authority. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You do not understand, obviously, what a distinction of powers means, as you cannot understand that other government and other authority. The new Minister of National Defence...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u397	Be quiet, please. Listen carefully. Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u398	The new Minister of National Defence is now a politician. He accepted to become Minister of SYRIZA at this juncture and will be judged for it and placed publicly. On the occasion of explaining to us - to explain to the Greeks - who exactly decided and what this flight of fighter aircraft was serving yesterday over the Pentagon, to be attributed - it says - prices to Mr Kammenos. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Anyone who wants to pay these prices, pay them out of their pockets, not from the Treasury. A little shame doesn't hurt. Ladies and gentlemen, moving towards the vote, we all know what the real problem is. Anyone voting 'yes' approves a total of the country's shipwreck for the last four years. It approves the huge political fraud that led Mr. Tsipras to power, the lies that were baptized illusions and ended up in two Memorandums of SYRIZA - ANEL, the constant tax storm and the burdens that citizens pay every day, the poorly paid wages of EUR 360, the fleeing of young children abroad, the conversion of the country into a Greece of low expectations. Anyone who votes for "yes", opens the way to the so-called "Macedonian" identity and language with neighbors, as provided by the Prespecies Agreement. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Anyone who votes for 'yes' approves this humiliation of the democratic function that has been choking us lately, the dissolution of parties, political malpractice, absolute cynicism of power and reproduces a model that deprives citizens of politics, leaving it in the hands of the powerful and political. Whoever votes for "yes", becomes the winner of a crippled system of power, who wants to drag along with the country, continues to fool a few gullibles with poisoned antidotes, effectively dismantling universities, allowing lawlessness, and watering public opinion with propaganda, populism and poison. Ladies and gentlemen, the extension of this decadent situation poses very serious risks to the country. The country today needs political stability. Without stability there is no growth. No stability, no investment. Without stability, the trust that Greece so needs today is not recovered. And all this cannot be offered by a government of 'currency'. It can only offer them a strong government with a fresh people's mandate. The elections are the only solution for the country to move forward. And as long as today's political squirrel continues, the country will sink. So elections as soon as possible to breathe the place. Elections for Greeks finally to take their luck in their hands. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Whoever we are here today, we take great responsibility for the people and history. The people have realised what has happened in the House over the last two days, and will weigh the result today on the basis of their own views, their own conviction. It is the one condensed in the slogan that now sends to SYRIZA every fan of unity, logic and progress: "Finally, go!" [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is up to us that today's decision of Parliament, with the will of the Greeks, should go hand in hand. The will of the Greeks is not a marginal majority of limited liability and a certain amount of time. Either way, the election won't be long. The answer will come to the polls and will be overwhelming. And you will be permanent in yesterday, to open a new period for the place, to finally close the wounds of the division, which you so irresponsibly and so steadfastly opened, to bridge the great breaches in Greek society, which - yes - caused them - the crisis caused them, but your cheap demagogue, to create a strong Greece, a proud Greece, a Greece with security, a Greece with prosperity for all. The capital of demagogy, populism, decline and rot is over. The Greeks deserve better, we can do better. And it's time to finally go ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. Please, before giving the floor to the Prime Minister, for a minute Mr Kammenos has asked for the floor, to submit a document to the House. Mr. Kammenos hadn't made a protology. He only spoke one time ago. I would ask him to speak. There is no point in having a procedural debate. Then the Prime Minister will speak. Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u400	Mr President, I am simply presenting you with this document, which restores the truth. It is the original document of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, which Mr Kumucascus invoked, which does not mention, as Mr Kumucasos writes in his current question, Slavomacedon, but Macedonians. I'm filing it in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u401	Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u402	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really followed with interest but also with great surprise yesterday and today the Chief of Staff. I have tried to distinguish both the arguments and the style of the speech that it has adopted, a style, indeed, of extremely high tone theatre. I wonder if some communicationists have told him that speaking loudly, exaggeratingly, expecting, of course, some protracted applause, raising tons but with no arguments, is an image that can convince not only the MPs but the citizens who are watching us. Mostly I wonder: If things are the way the New Democracy is finally presenting them, that is, if SYRIZA is a prepared government that does not have the majority in the House or in the Greek society, where the polls that are being supported by the media are ten, fifteen, twenty-thirty-four different, why such nervousness, Mr Mitsotakis? What's wrong with you? Why aren't you cool? Why are you shouting, exaggerating, targeting? What for? Do you know anything real polls, tell us to cheer us up for reading the fakes all this time? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This image of Chief of Staff of Staff of the House, which is mobilized by the headquarters of the Parliament, aims, abuses and does not make any arguments, is indeed an image...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u403	I said to Kammenos...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u404	Please don't argue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u405	You'll allow me to speak. I heard you, Mr. Mitsotakis, with great attention. I, personally, have not interrupted you once. If this example is given to you and your MPs to continue to interrupt me, then I guess you're doing it for the sake of what I've said so far, that you're too nervous today. So let me draw up my arguments and political speech, because I am addressing all the Members of Parliament and also the Greek citizens who are following us. Ladies and gentlemen, I have provoked this process of voting trust with full awareness of the history of the moments, but above all with a full sense of my own duty, my government, to Parliament, to the Greek people, to democracy. You all know that I have had every opportunity under the Constitution, which is what the Constitution stipulates what we should do and what we should not do in this place and in this Chamber, not to do that. You all know very well and, in particular, Mr Mitsotakis, that I had the political choice to hide behind the constant challenge, which, from the whole time, was a challenge to which you would not respond, to address the opposition that has the number of seats provided for in the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament, causing it to table a motion of censure. That would, of course, be an easy choice for me, because it would be a given that you would not win it, Mr Mitsotakis. You would not find one hundred and fifty to vote in favour of the motion of censure. Last time you tried, you found just a hundred twenty-seven months ago. However, I took the risk, having the political courage to call for clean solutions from my current government partner and from the whole of the National Representation, because the criticality of the political dilemma we have before us requires clean solutions and clear words. If for something you cannot blame me, ladies and gentlemen, for the opposition of all the parties, in the last few years I have been in the position of Prime Minister, it is that I have not had the courage to take over in Parliament and the people at the critical times of responsibility. I would like to remind you, Mr Mitsotakis and ladies and gentlemen, that you are criticising, you are supposed to be the genuine interpreters of the Constitution and of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament and of the principles of parliament, and you are saying that you cannot allow a government, even if it takes a vote of confidence with a hundred and fifty a Member of Parliament to rule, and you say to us: 'You have a hundred and forty-five and see the committees, do not change them at this time in the European Union, since you are so pro-European, thirteen governments - neither one, nor two, nor three - govern with parties which do not have an absolute majority of the Members. They're minority governments. I don't do that. I request the majority of the House. At the same time, you see in the valley of parliamentary democracy, Britain, what connections the British Prime Minister governs, and the result of yesterday's vote. Not just lost, but with four hundred, two, crashed. So, then, I really don't understand, if you want. I want to talk to you today, because people are listening to us. I'm not doing a theatrical show like you do. I shall speak with arguments, because you have no objection to any arguments. So you were exactly the same, the same political forces that in July 2015 when the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, which numbered a hundred and forty-nine, left not one, two or three, but left then twenty-five MPs, and SYRIZA was found with a hundred and twenty-four, and obviously with the concurrent party, the Independent Greeks, they had no majority, what were you telling us at the time? You told us that: “The government is a raven. Get out of here. Make elections right away. To proceed to a vote of confidence’? You said to us: 'Continue with a hundred and twenty-four'. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And now the same people, the same people, the same political forces interpret both the Constitution and the Rules as they suit them. And they say to the same man, who then had two choices in front of him, or to ask for a vote of confidence or go to the Greek people, and chose the second one. That's not what you're telling me. You tell me that: “With a hundred and twenty-four then you had to go on, it was fine. With a hundred and fifty one now you won't have political legitimacy. You'll be a raven." That's what you're saying. These are your arguments. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis, I am not changing these critical, institutional issues on the basis of the occasion. I believe that my Government, in order to move forward with the crucial issues ahead, to complete the country's path towards full exit from the crisis, to return to normality, needs to have the majority of Members, to have the full confidence of Parliament, so that it can reach, because this is our political goal, at the end of the constitutional term, namely October 2019. This is the first and the main issue to which the National Representation is now called upon to answer each Member separately. Because in critical times we all have to take a stand. The MPs are not soldiers. They function on the basis of their consciences in critical times and critical issues. That's what the Constitution says, Mr. Mitsotakis. You're here to give us lessons of political morality. It's too much. Not only because in your group you joined four Members in the previous period, but because sometimes I feel that you do not know or ignore or have a matter you have, renounce the history of your own party. You tell us that the MPs we took, he says, were elected to be in the opposition. They have no opinion why they were elected in the Opposition. Here your father ruled from 1990 to 1993 with a Member elected with another party, Mr Katsiki, took the seat of the late Stephanopoulos, and you ruled for three years with a Member, who was not elected with the New Democracy, and with a party which had a different view at that time. He did not consent to coming with you and the New Democracy ruling for three years from 1990 to 1993.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u406	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u407	I would therefore ask you - because in this place we are not yesterday, and because everyone has their history and good is that you honour your history, but honor it by recognizing it - not to teach us political morals. I, therefore, have made it clear that I am, ladies and gentlemen. I have asked the House to reaffirm its confidence in the government so that this government can complete its mandate, with a clear political plan and with clear objectives which I explained yesterday in detail. But from the standpoint of counterpopulation, I see this nervousness, this confusion, this embarrassment. A week ago, the opposition, almost all parties, asked me for what? And they said, "If you dare! Let me ask for a vote of confidence. And now that I dare, they're in trouble again. Mr Mitsotakis, who has not had the political courage and political courage to provoke this debate, has found that there is a crisis in the government coalition and that there is a possibility that this government will have lost Parliament's confidence, instead of the same man who has not had the courage to provoke a debate, Mr Mitsotakis, who has threatened us constantly six months to end the six-month period and when the Prespecies Agreement comes, will present a motion of censure and has not done so today, Mr Mitsotakis comes to us with lessons of Parliament and democracy and political morality. I repeat, I will make a political position today and say that the main problem of Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy is that it has a huge difficulty in adapting to changes when they take place. When he adopts a account, he continues with this account, regardless of whether the circumstances change. So until yesterday, he asked me to table a vote of confidence and he did not dare to table a motion of censure, and above all that I thought I took him out of the difficult position, it seems that with the proposal for a vote of confidence that I tabled, he must have come to a much - much more difficult position than he was before. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is why, both yesterday and today, instead of a real political argument, instead of a political project, Mr Mitsotakis concluded to read out in the Greek Parliament in a strong style, as I saw at the beginning of my speech, libels, and, in my opinion, unprecedentedly cast the level of parliamentary dialogue, targeting MPs - yesterday with names, today he photographed them all one by one and the six - threats and designations, with high and slogans, even for persons who have been honoring for over forty-five years the public life with their presence, such as Admiral Apostolakis, who is today the Minister of National Defence. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I, frankly, refuse to believe that this is the level of Mr Mitsotakis. I would like to believe that this attitude is the result of very bad counsellors who have around it and possibly political confusion, because I cannot believe that the Chief of Staff Response comes to a critical meeting in the House and instead of having a political speech, he reads the newspaper of the well-known businessman and newspapers of the well-known businessman who regularly criticise the government. I think it's incomprehensible! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, if it makes any sense to answer all of this. What can I say? When Mr Mitsotakis comes here and says that the government of Samaras saved Greece but we immersed it, I think he is the best sponsor of our own policy, because the Greek people remember. The Greek people know that in 2014 unemployment was 28% and today it is 18%. The Greek people know that three hundred and fifty thousand jobs have been created in these years that we are ruling. The Greek people know that it was 65 billion of the hard austerity measures taken by the destructive five years 2010-2014, which lost 25% of GDP unprecedented in peacetime. The Greek people know. Have you chosen this strategy? You make us extremely good, Mr. Mitsotakis. Keep going. You are our best sponsor, as long as you defend Mr. Samaras' rule. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But this, for which, in fact, I am incomprehensible, is that today, even today, Mr Mitsotakis has not been found to say a word to condemn this misery, which has been attempting over the last few days. A word! A word to condemn the New Democracy official, Mr Avramako, the secretary, the head of the largest prefecture in the New Democracy, who, last week, sent out massive messages to the supporters of the New Democracy, with the MPs' mobile phones that they intend to support the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u408	Christophorides, you can convict...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u409	Are we getting started, Mrs. Vulturis? Please, be quiet. Be careful to listen to them with dedication.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u410	I know everything I'm telling you is more confusing. Do not show it at least, because the road that Mr. Mitsotakis has chosen is a dangerous and far-reaching path. I heard Mr. Theodorakis talking about this. He tried to balance things somewhat, saying that photographs of political persons had come out of the memorial period. They had come out and said, in fact, about the Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy, if I'm not mistaken. Mr Theodorakis, I remember very well at that time and the criticism you have addressed to SYRIZA at the time, which in any case constantly made announcements to condemn it. And then you accused us that this is not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u411	Don't make a fuss, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u412	I would like to ask you today - rhetoric is the question, answer me - if at that time SYRIZA officials were to spread massively SMS with the names, addresses and phone numbers of MPs, what exactly would have happened? It's not all the same. I wish today to content myself with what he has dared to say - and to his honour - from the position of the President of the Parliament, Nikitas Kaklamanis, who has not dared to articulate today three quarters of what Mr Mitsotakis was talking about here, to condemn 'not even yesterday, nor should we ever have such phenomena of terror, blackmail, this misery towards political persons, against elected MPs'. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, this attitude leads me to conclude that instead of condemning these misery - which New Democracy officials, I am not only saying New Democracy officials, some have already been arrested, this particular New Democracy official was probably hidden from the self-defense and was not arrested - instead of answering about it, he was answering other issues. But what I understand from this attitude - and, indeed, I am very sorry to say - is that Mr Mitsotakis has chosen this strategy, the strategy of tension, the strategy of polarisation, which is a strategy which at the end of the day leads to division. The New Democracy has made a political choice, which I respect, the political option of shifting from the so-called middle space to the extreme right space. It is a political option, which was built in the first few years, in which the Chief of the New Democracy was Mr Samaras, with the translations from the People's Orthodox Alarm party. Today one is Vice President, the other central executive. I respect your views, but they are your views. It is one option which, if you wish, also has one logic, because the current in Europe today is that of extreme right-wing populism. But the New Democracy has shifted through this contribution, if you like, this composition of the extreme neoliberal speech expressed by Mr. Mitsotakis, with the extreme right speech expressed by the executives who came from the Orthodox Alert, creating a strange hybrid. But we have so far known about this in terms of positions, opinions and ideas. It seems that you are jealous and the practices of the extreme right not only the positions and opinions, and this is extremely dangerous for democracy and for the place, because you are a Dedicated Opposition party, you are a great party, you are a big party, and it is very dangerous for the place to adopt not only the views of the extreme right but also the practices of the extreme right, Mr Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I now come to try to respond to the basic argument, which at least I understood, among these voices, the outrages, the basic argument you have managed to make, beyond telling us that Mr Samaras saved Greece with 30% unemployment. So what did you tell us? What was your main argument? Your central claim these two days is that the withdrawal of Panos Kammenos from the government coalition from the government, and the end of our government co-operation is directed, that there has been a transaction between us. Yes, sir. Tell me something, Mr. Mitsotakis. After having made this transaction, since this departure is chic, why did I have to risk the possibility of ruling, but should Mr. Kammens have five MPs to be a party leader? Why? Why, since this transaction is chic, am I asking for a vote of confidence and putting everyone in front of their responsibilities? Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u413	Please! You've been talking about these two days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u414	It's a very simple question. Because I did not expect you to make a proposal of distrust, which Mr Kammenos would have been much easier at that time, he said to vote against. After all, you do not have the same views as you disagree on the "Macedonian". You are looking to find pretexts, supposedly that we have handed over ethnicity - that's what you say - as if we had handed it over, as if the Greek Macedonians had an ethnic "Macedonian" and supposedly handed over the language. Isn't that what you're saying? You don't mind the term Macedonia, do you? This was the national line drawn up by Bucharest in 2008, and it was the national line that you followed. In all the international forums you said this and in all your programming statements you said: 'A complex name with the term Macedonia by geographical definition'. Isn't that right? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So Mr Kammenos would not come to your reproach or even if he came, it would be much easier to say 'Some of my Members will not vote'. Why, then, are they bringing him into this difficulty, I bring myself into this difficulty? Do you know what's wrong with you, Mr. Mitsotakis? It's what I told you at the beginning. You cannot adapt to reality. When reality changes so much the worst for reality. You did the same when we got out of the memoirs. You had made a political account. What was that? 'The fourth Memorandum will come'. The country comes out of the memorials, the whole of Europe recognizes it, the end of the austerity measures, measures come positive, and you instead of saying 'Okay I was wrong', you say: 'We are still in the fourth memorandum'. Now you're doing the same thing. Now all Greece sees that this political disagreement has led us to a break. He's leaving the government. I ask for a vote of confidence, and what do you say? "The SYRIZA - ANEL continues to be together." [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr. Mitsotakis, I understand your inability to have a political account, but I don't think it's good and good practice, to constantly attempt when it's raining, to say it's sunshine, when it's sunshine out, to say it's raining out. People understand. People are watching. Find another argument, therefore, because this issue of divorce and transaction is the most funny thing to hear in view of the reality and seeing how we are going and with what morals we are going with and what plan we are going for tomorrow in the country. I would therefore suggest, Mr Mitsotakis, that we oppose the basis of political arguments. I hear you for so many days targeting Members, your members giving their phones, forget what happened in the past in relation to your own governments, forget that four have joined you, including some who said they will vote in favour of the Ambassadors' agreement because it is good. All this explains, on the basis of what you have learned to do over the years, that not all of this is an act of conscience but a transaction. However, I would like to speak politically today and address the other parties that criticise us for the same reason. Of course Mrs. Gennimata has taken three Members. Mr Theodorakis may have a reason to criticise him, because he is the only one who has lost MPs in this Parliament. But I want to speak to all of you and tell you. Is all this true to you, the explanation to all of this just the market version of politics? Can you not see that in recent years there has been a very significant intersection in the political life of the country and the political system is being restructured? The Prespecies Agreement was found to be a catalyst, but there is a reorder in the political system. Isn't that what you think might happen? You ask what Members will be doing in the Embassy Agreement that will support the government today. Today we are debating the vote of confidence. When the Prespecies Agreement comes, we will discuss a critical agreement, a crucial, indeed, for the country, a crucial national issue. There I imagine that - unless all of you raise a matter of party discipline and start the deletion - the MPs, as the Constitution defines, will vote on the basis of their conscience and each one will take his or her responsibility. All three hundred and three hundred will take our responsibility towards history, against what each one of us feels as a national and patriotic duty. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because criticism is unfair, especially when it comes from parties which together with us have passed a series of bills, without the presence of Mr Kammenos. This government has passed a law on citizenship, on children born in the country to acquire citizenship, without Mr. Kammenos, by votes from your own headquarters. This government voted for the cohabitation pact. This government has voted for the identity of a gender with your own MPs. Then in all these bills there was no question of declared democracy, a political issue, when Kammens did not vote. There is an issue for the Prespes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u415	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u416	Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat this. You're wronging yourself with this criticism. You are wrong, first of all, because you refuse to make an elementaryly serious political analysis that the exit from the memorials has brought back to the surface the basic dividing lines that exist over time in the political system. You cannot understand that the Greek economy has now completed the cycle of fiscal adjustment and has now stabilised, that the country's confidence and credibility have been restored, that the Greek debt has been set and sustainable, that the country's financial needs are secured and the Greek bonds have returned to the pre-crisis levels. And now the big, the critical major issues that re-educated the entire political system in 2010, in 2012 have been resolved, and the political dilemmas are being otherwise cleared. Members are also invited to decide. The MPs have not had an epidemic. The move of the New Democracy, too - I described it before - to the extremes of the right rhetoric creates a huge gap, in what we called'medium space'. It doesn't speak from anywhere. Of course I heard the speech made by Mrs Gennamas yesterday and today and by KINAL, and it is as if she were written by Mr Mitsotakis himself, as if they had the same writer. They used the same arguments. Absolute match. This costing, therefore, not with the New Democracy, which was once centre-right but with a New Democracy that has shifted to the ends, leaves huge space on the centre-left side. That's the reality. Members also come before dilemmas, critical dilemmas for politics, their opinion, the future of the country and the national issue, but also on a number of other crucial social and economic issues. That's the reality. You don't want to see her? So much the worse for you. The dilemma, which is brought to the Members and to the citizens who are following us, is that SYRIZA and New Democracy are forming a new dilemma - yes that is the reality - on the basis of their positions, on the basis of their views. On the one hand it is what we call a "progressive polo" with SYRIZA and on the other what is it? The party, which is, of course, President Mitsotakis, but has nothing to do with Mitsotakis, whom we have previously met, with the party of Mr Samaras, Mr Vorides, Mr Georgiadis. So, ladies and gentlemen, the key dilemma of today's debate is in this new context how we will be placed. Because it is the reality that must require us to reposition rather than do like the ostrich, as Mr Mitsotakis does, even when reality changes. The question, therefore, which I have raised to all of you and which we shall be asked to answer in a few hours' time by our vote, is whether or not this government should proceed by the end of four years. It is whether or not the stability signal for exiting the crisis is to be given. This government says that it must complete its term of office.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u418	We know that you say 'no'. You don't have to say that, Mr. Voridis. We know, but do not invoke stability when you say 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u419	Mr. Voridis, no one in this Chamber believed that you would vote otherwise.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u420	That will be answered today, ladies and gentlemen. The Embassy Agreement will be a special debate. The government today calls for a vote of confidence, which I repeat is also a vote of confidence in stability, political credibility, the credibility of the country in the European and international spheres. The government today calls for a vote of confidence to continue this effort. Unemployment is down by nine points. Yes, we want when we go to the polls - that is what we seek, you do not like, it does not suit you - to reduce unemployment even greater. We want the minimum and underprivileged wage to have increased. Because if you come, that won't happen. And you won't come. We want the top institutional process of the Revision of the Constitution to be completed, which should have started in this place for so many years with the disgraceful law on the responsibility of Ministers. We want households to be lightened up, housing policy strengthened, the first home law passed. This is the work that we have before us - not only our obligation - to bring the Embassy Agreement into Parliament, and each one to stand against his conscience. But I come, ladies and gentlemen, to say a few words, let me not go into substance, but let me inform the Members and the National Representation that today the private communication was officially served to the Greek Government, with which our neighbours inform us of the completion of their internal procedures for the ratification of the Ambassadors' Agreement. I have heard Mr Mitsotakis express a concern and move the finger: 'Do not bring it to one night, do not allow us to hear our opinion'. Mr Mitsotakis, one year we have been discussing this issue, everyone has an opinion and an opinion, and I assure you that we will give you as much time as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u421	Don't make any calls.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u422	Without any signals, how much time do you want, Mr. Mitsotakis? As much time as you want. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And because, Mr. Mitsotakis, you're only for a couple of lines, I challenge you for the second time, and I invite you. Come here to the House and to a television dialogue on the Prespecies Agreement, tell us what these arguments you have. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Why have you had a point of view for twenty years, and now to vote, have you changed your mind? Why are you following this attitude of political unreliability in relation to the history of your party, and you lead to the division of the Greek people? Come on. Where do you want? You want on public TV? You don't? Do you want SKAI to break the embargo? You want to talk to reporters who give you dust? You want with the people who write you the speeches? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Whoever you want, Mr. Mitsotakis. I have arguments, you have voices, you have slogans. Come wherever you want, as you want and whenever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u423	Here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u424	And here you won't get away with it. Here too. What do you want? You want to be costed by some extremists who organize rallys. Let's help them come and see them. What's your problem? Do you want to bring the deal in ten days, in twenty? Anytime. Three days to talk? We only have one force for our arguments. You have the power of populism, of lying, of this force which leads you to a vote. So let us compare our powers. Let's compare the arguments with the slogans, as you want and whenever you want. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I now come to the essence of the private communication, because I am very afraid that with what I am about to say, Mr Mitsotakis will not come to a television show with me. Yes, I know, you want in Parliament to read it and not to talk about it face to face, that's your problem. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So our neighbours have sent us the text of the financial communication after the completion of the proceedings in this House, a text in which they inform us of the end of the proceedings, they also make a very interesting statement. It is a clear statement in the financial communication rather than an interview. The financial communication is a legally binding document. And, of course, they clarify the commitments resulting from the agreement. Here's the financial communication, and I'll testify it. First, they state that the term ‘nationality’, as stated in the Agreement, refers exclusively to citizenship and does not define or prejudge the issue of the nationality of the citizens of Northern Macedonia. Here, Mr. Mitsotakis, let's see what you'll find. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] And the second one which states that the language of the neighbours, the official language, as stated in the agreement, has been recognised by the 1997 UN Conference and belongs to where? In the group of southern Slavic languages. It's a Slavic language. So no relationship has with our own history, with our own culture, with our own tradition. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned financial communication, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr Mitsotakis, I am very afraid that you will have to look at other arguments, other points to disagree or openly say that you have been changing the position of the New Democracy for over twenty years and you will join Mr Kammenos's opinion. You have to choose. One of the two things you have to do. In any case, you will be able to think about it. However, in a timely question tabled by the New Democracy, Mr Kumucakos calls them Slavumacedonians. You want us to call them that? He calls them Macedonians and I am sorry that Mr Kumucakos has taken the floor today to lie to Parliament. He took the floor to say that on page 32 of our official statistical service, they are called Slavmacedones. They call themselves "Macedonians", didn't you know that? And he said the lie, in order to save the fact that you called them in your official Slavmacedonians, as in so many years as you were in favour of the complex name with a geographical designation under the term "Macedonia". That was your place. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And now that we are trying to resolve a crucial national issue, what you are doing is that you join the most extreme, the most disgraceful form of populism and division on a crucial national issue, and everyone will judge us history but we will be judged by the Greek people. In any case, I think we will have the time to discuss this, to make a debate in SKAI, since you so much want it. No objections. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing. I have tried as much as I could to do to you and the people who are watching us with temper. At critical turnings in history, it is considered the consistency and moral attitude of each and every one who has the honour of representing the Greek people in this Chamber. The truth is, indeed, that parliamentary democracy in the years of the crisis has been severely affected. Governments, in fact, of raven and zombies, Prime Ministers absent from the parliamentary process, legislation against legislative acts, contempt for and despair of institutions, practices of a political establishment that ultimately poisoned an entire society and fueled anti-political and despair of parliamentaryism. I fear that these practices are still here, and they are represented by those who brought them eight years ago. These practices are here, in the cries of those missing from the Chamber in and out of it, I mean chrysanzees. These practices are here, in the arguments without the basis for trade and underground routes you are reproducing for MPs, in the words of the Chief of Officer Responsibility, in this colossal force to equate a member of the Armed Forces with a high democratic patriotic attitude, with the men of the constitutional junta. You don't even know the story of your party, do you? Constantine Karamanlis in 1980, Ioannis Davos the Chief of HNDGS for five years, retired him on 10 January 1980, to swear him Undersecretary of Defense on 15 January, four days later. What was your problem? That he was a State Secretary and not a Minister, huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u425	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u426	So these practices are here, to those who orchestrate and perform a disgusting and fascist campaign of targeting and terrorising members of the Greek Parliament, in the attitude of all those who finally do with their attitude to the parliamentary process and the functioning of the culture. I, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the principles and values of the party I represent, came before you to seek clean solutions, not tricks, not semi-metres, open, honest, clean, above all parliamentary and democratic. So I invite you, with the hand of the heart, to give a vote of confidence to the government which has battled, but has succeeded in getting the country out of the memorials and the committee, to the government that continues to fight, to bring the economy up and to bring the country back to normality, to the government that is fighting, to return to Greece of many, not to Greece of the few, in Greece, in Greece of progress, of the battle, of science, of work, of culture, not to Greece of division, corruption, jacks, porphyrogens. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We want Greece of progress towards Greece of maintenance. Because this Greece deserves us and we will build this Greece, with the power of the people who regain their lives and the future in their hands. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We'll make it. We will have a vote of confidence and we will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u427	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u428	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u429	Mr. Kumucako, you don't have the floor either, Mr. Tsakaloto. Please, you spoke beforehand. Alas, if for whoever the Prime Minister referred to... Please. Please. You talked twice later. The relevant texts have been deposited. We're all judging. Everyone judges the texts. There's no matter. Also, Mr Tsakalotos had asked me to submit a text in the Minutes of the House, which also concerns the question of restoration in relation to the issue of the fund and the antiquities and whether it is or is not within the fund. He had asked before. Please testify. He won't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u430	Here, Mr President, I am presenting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u431	Parliamentary practice is very specific. No fellow Members - you understand - have been subjected to staff. It is not right now to have this situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u432	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u433	Mrs. Gennimata, as the party leader, she wants to say something. Please, Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor. There's something you want to say, maybe you can clarify something. There is no tritology, you can see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u434	Obviously, Mr President, but because the Prime Minister has referred to me on many occasions and my party, I think we need to make it clear...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u435	Quiet, please! I run the procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u436	Is the Prime Minister closing or not closing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u437	We need to make a few things clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u438	What kind of things? You have no speech, Mrs. Gennamas. I'll remove your word. You have a minute, if you want, for a clarification. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u439	So I'll tell you this very quickly. Mr Tsipras, you really haven't heard me because you seem to have escaped, you have lost your account, you don't know what to say to us and you keep telling us the same thing. Repeat, I am supposed to say the same as Mr Mitsotakis. If you'd heard me, really yesterday and today, you would've heard me tell you that what you've done is that you've signed a contract with the deepest right. And this contract is a contract to dismantle the democratic party. It is no coincidence, therefore, that you have chosen to rely on even at this stage, from MPs from the heart of the right and you include them in your Government even today, members of the caramanic period.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u440	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u441	The admiration of the caramanel period has proved to us in every way. So, the more comical on this so-called centre-left left you're talking about, not gynogologists and leftovers on the right, but you, yourself, are looking to find a life-saving rescue right now. And because you talked about the summer of 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u442	Thank you very much. Mrs. Gennamas, you don't have the floor. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u444	There is no 'no'. Please, parliamentary practice is specific. The other day, we almost...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u445	To be cleared in the summer of 2015.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u446	You spoke as long as you wanted to say your arguments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u447	In 2015, then, I remind you that we were telling you not to go to elections, because in addition to all others, a referendum had just taken place in the country, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u448	Please don't make me turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u449	...regardless of whether you "no" the Greek people did it "yes" in the way I want, as you today tell us that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u450	What do you think, Mrs. Gennamas? You don't have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u451	You're asking for a vote of confidence when you've lost the declared one. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Respect democracy a little more now, Mr Tsipras, because you will be judged by them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u452	Mrs. Gennamas, please don't repeat this process. It's not right at all, and you know it. You didn't have the right to take the floor. You took him, but you did an all-material placement. Why this thing? Would not all the other political leaders and political forces have any reason to speak? Please. Prime Minister, do you want to make a comment to close the procedure under the Rules of Procedure? Allow me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u453	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u454	Before we leave and close the process, it is good for the House to know that there has been a comfortable process within two days, where... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please, you will hear the evidence, because we spoke very much yesterday. Maybe you don't know... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You want me not to talk? I have an obligation to give you an account of the proceedings. Is this the first time? Please! Why so nervous? They spoke, then, sixty-eight Members, twelve Ministers, Deputy Ministers and State Secretarys, eight parliamentary representatives, eight parliamentary groups twice, except for Mr Kammenos who spoke once, and two former Members of Parliament. The procedure lasted twenty-four hours. I have to tell you this and keep it. Eleven such discussions had been held in the House in the past. [[Noise - laughers from the wing of the New Republic]] Why are you laughing exactly? We're not playing play here. Understand? Eleven such discussions had been held in the Greek Parliament. This debate in terms of number of speakers and length of hours is the third most. In other words, when it was three days, we started this afternoon, there was always a holiday at noon in the discussions and the discussion evolved. You must know, therefore, that, as we have decided, there has also been a further circle of speakers, they have spoken with comfort, as well as with comfort, obviously, the debate, as the Prime Minister said, on the issue of the Prespecies is also going to take place. And another thing: because there were reasonable questions and an attempt today to change the agenda for the debate on the functioning of the House, I assured from the midday that the debate on this matter has come to my attention that everything that has to do with Parliament's committees and the functioning of the House will be done in the Constitution and under the Rules of Procedure, that this is self-evident, as is self-evident, and it is also clear that Parliament's plenary is legislating. I mean it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u455	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Prime Minister's proposal to give the government a vote of confidence. It will be followed by a roll-call vote, which will be held in accordance with Rules 72 and 72A of the Rules of Procedure. They accept the proposal to give a vote of confidence they say 'HAY'. Those who fail to accept the proposal for a vote of confidence are saying 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. The Secretary of Parliament and MP Evros Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and MP Imathia of the New Republic Mr Apostolos Vesropoulos are on the list. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, the Bureau has also received letters from Members of Parliament on a mission from the Government abroad, which make their votes known. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u456	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u457	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Mr Georgios Kasapidis will not be present at today's roll-call vote on the Prime Minister's proposal for a vote of confidence, and he will inform us by letter that he would be present if he were to vote 'OR'. This letter, which expresses the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but is not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u458	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u459	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 299 Members voted. They voted for the government's vote of confidence, i.e. 'NAH', 151 MPs. [[Upright SYRIZA MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] They refused to vote for a vote of confidence, i.e. they voted for 'NO', 148 MPs. 'The present' was adopted by no one. The government therefore had the vote of confidence in Parliament, as provided for in Rules 84 of the Constitution and 141 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u460	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-16-S1-commons.u461	With the consent of the House at 22.28p. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 17 January 2019 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
