ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the House's 27-2-2019 authorisation, the Minutes of the IGC of Wednesday, 27 February 2019, concerning the vote on the entire draft law: "The establishment of a child station in the Ministry of Culture and Sport, the regulation of issues of the Solidarity Fund of Officials of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, the abolition of the New Acropolis Museum and other provisions".]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the debate on topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question report on Friday 1 March 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis on the subject of "Readaptation fees for large hydroelectric power stations". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 388/26-2-2019, a topical question by Congressman I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is proclaiming a selective partition of municipalities with micro-party criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience." 3. Under number 381/25-2-2019, a topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Integration Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: 'At what stage is the project to attract visitors to Lake Lada, amounting to EUR 1,289,618?' B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Proclamation of a post as Professor of Shiro-Beligomia at the Democritus University of Thrace". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Delay in inequalities between professional farmers and owners of photovoltaic stations'. 3. The Question No 369/18-2-2019 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Do not settle by PPC wind park above Marmari Evia". 4. Under No 279/15-1-2019, the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the transport equivalent". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before dealing with the only timely question we have today, we will proceed to the deletion of the topical and urgent questions which will not be discussed. The third, with number 386/26-2-2019, timely question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Dangerous "hot" in Apostlemi, in the Department of Gouves - Hersonissos", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Christos Spirtzis. Cause: workload. The first, with number 378/25-2-2019, topical question for the second cycle of MP II Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Compensatory benefits for the regions in the administrative limits of which the reservoirs/frames of Mornos and Evnos are located, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Christos Spirtzis. Cause: workload. The first, with number 377/25-2-2019, top-stage question from the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Maniou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Addition of honey to the foods of the eco-technical process", will not be discussed due to a blockage of the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Cause: workload. The second question under number 392/26-2-2019 is the second question of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Critical change is here. The necessary infrastructure will not be discussed as a result of the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Cause: workload. The third with number 330/4-2-2019 topical question by Independent MEP, Evia Nikolaos Michou, Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Continuance of persecution of members of the Greek minority in Albania", will not be discussed. The fourth under number 284/21-1-2019 topical question for the Second Cycle of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: “Albanian street developments in the creation of “Greek Albania” will not be discussed. The fifth, with number 280/17-1-2019, is a topical question for the second of the Piraios I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The co-management of the Aegean is being promoted by the Government", will not be discussed. The sixth question, with number 260/9-1-2019, is a second question for the Piraeus People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouziou to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways”, will not be discussed. The seventh question under number 261/9-1-2019 of the Second Cycle of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Anthony Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Macedonian Museum and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", will not be discussed. The eighth Question No 263/9-1-2019 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Cazan ready to explode the state of Skopje", will not be discussed. After the deletions, we move on to the only timely question that will be discussed today. It is the second under number 387/26-2-2019 timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Ms. Panayiotis (Noti) Mitaraki to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Lacks in retrospectives of pensioners on special wages". The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr. Petropoulos. Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-28-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. After thanking and congratulating the Deputy Minister, Mr Petropoulos, who is always present to answer the parliamentary topical questions, I am very sorry to note the fact that the ten of the eleven topical questions will not be discussed. And I have the impression - and correct me, Mr President, that you are older than me - that the term 'workload' was not in previous parliamentary periods. I have been a State Secretary for two and a half years and have not invoked myself or any of my other colleagues this term. It is a pity for the parliamentary control procedure that ministers choose other activities. I am sure the ministers are working long hours a day, as has always been done, but parliamentary control must be a personal priority. Minister, in November 2018, the provision for the payment of retroactive payments to special wages was passed. As you know, the New Democracy voted in favour of this provision. We even pointed out that you had brought the order almost four years late, since the return had already been launched by the Samara government in 2014. Retroactively paid at the end of 2018. But, just a month and a half later, complaints have come to light that significant mistakes have been made in the payment of retrospectives. Other pensioners did not receive the funds and others received more than they had been given. And the last problem will be even greater, as there will have to be refunds. At the same time, there is a body of major problems to the FBI. One of the most important is that pension recalculations have not yet been notified to pensioners. In fact, we have two hundred complaints from pensioners - and we have confirmed that they themselves - that the monthly payment of pensions has not been posted to the electronic system since the beginning of the year. And I wonder why this is happening. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have therefore asked you, in this timely question, to explain to me how many pensioners are entitled to retire on special wages, how many have received higher and how many smaller amounts than they have been entitled to, what size range the differences are, which are due to errors, how you will restore and how the recoverys will be made, without disturbing once again the daily lives of pensioners, and whether there will be responsibility for the mistakes. Finally, I asked you to tell me when you will inform the pensioners of the amount of personal difference, how many pensions have positive and how many negative personal differences and how much is the average of this personal difference created by the Katrugalo - Petropoulos Act?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-28-S1-commons.u3	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-28-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the dense work of the government often compels the ministers to be in duties that do not allow them to come. It is not a deliberate evasion of answers. We have no difficulty in answering the questions of Officer Representation, because every question that the New Democracy is asking is based on its own shortcomings, its own negative policies and therefore gives us the opportunity to demonstrate substantially the responsibilities it had in previous years for the problems that have been accumulated, whose solution we are running to prevent, in difficult terms and under adverse conditions. We do not find it difficult to answer, as I will not find it difficult to answer your question, Mr Mitarakis, today. If I formulated your question in another way convincingly, I would say: "Why, Mr. Petersburg, did you not do more quickly what you should do to solve the problems that we have created?" Because these questions you ask concern problems caused by the New Democracy, especially the Samara - Venizelos government, but also the previous governments you have supported. If these mistakes were discovered by our services - they were not indicated by anyone outside the ECA service, we found them, we found them and we corrected them. I will tell you that these things have always happened, and that is why the provision relating to the reimbursement of sums unduly paid is not currently, it is an old one. In other words, it was always foreseen that the system could provide an increased benefit by accidental calculation to the beneficiary and should have returned it when it was found that this error existed. Let me tell you that we're discovering errors after fifteen and twenty years of providing? And we weren't government. These are therefore expected errors, which we identified immediately and resolved. It is because of the complexity of the method of calculating the differences that should be paid. Let me tell you, for your information, that there is even a provision that has been calculated since 1961. Yes, there's such a pension! Since 1961, it has been paid - because it is a successor, you realise - for periods which have not been detailed in many bodies, there have been no such and in such a way that the performance of these differences has been easy. And don't tell me that in 2014 the government had launched the repayment of contributions and we didn't do it well, because you never did it. In 2014 you provided an incomplete contribution refund. You didn't. While you had an obligation to return them, you did not return these disputes. You gave a place and we came to give the amount that the state really had to give, because the cuts made by your government over the past few years had been made by the laws declared by the competent court as unconstitutional. The problem has been resolved immediately. The difference is corrected, and indeed the beneficiaries know themselves, by personal information, the amount to be reimbursed to them. The refund procedure is the one provided for in the Act: withholding part and not a direct claim, in order to give the sums given above. Therefore, the return is made in a way that facilitates the one who took the above amounts to returning them without disturbing his daily life. I shall continue for the rest in my dentistry, Mr President, because it will also come from the answer which is to be followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-28-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too, Minister. Before I give you the floor, Mr Mitarakis, I would like to comment on what you said at the beginning. Indeed, both the President and the Conference of Presidents have said many times that the workload is not a reason for seriousness so that the Minister does not come to the House to answer questions. However, there are other serious reasons which the Minister must invoke - if any - for not being in the House. Parliamentary control is not left to the Minister's authority or will, but is in his duty. The presence in the House is one of the main - if you like - obligations of the Minister under the Constitution. So we, the Bureau, have taken a stand on this. We must also see the government see this. Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-28-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President, as I thank you very much for the comment you have made. I think a solution which has been discussed in the Conference of Presidents - and I think it is time to get into the Rules of Procedure - is that Members who have asked the question five minutes, as long as is provided for in the time-limits for them to develop a monologue, unfortunately, the question of their question, should the Minister choose not to be present in the Chamber for once or twice. I understand Mr Petropoulos' need to cover his colleagues who are not here today. It will, however, agree with me that only one of the eleven questions can be discussed. And on this one question, Mr Petropoulou, you have actually not answered me. I asked you specific questions and I expected specific answers. You have commented, as the government always does, after four years of the previous government. But today, we are here to discuss your own things. You did not say a word about the level of the mistakes of retrospectives. You did not answer how many mistakes were made, because they were made and how they would be corrected, in particular. Like also, you did not say a word about the subject of personal dispute, which is the invention of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with the Katorugalou Act. How much is that personal difference? How many are negative and how many are positive? You know this doesn't directly affect old retired people. But it now directly affects the new pensioners who receive their pensions under your own law. As regards the subject of retrospectives, as you admitted in your prototype, the Samara - Venizelos government has indeed legislated and made the first payment. In 2015, the repayment of the retrospectives had to be completed. The government came SYRIZA - ANEL, we lived your myth in 2015 and the country went back. And you've come four years late to legislate what already existed. And you did it wrongly. Of course, no matter how much you try to ravage EVA, there are many other issues that need to be answered, such as the extradition of pensions. No parallel and successive insurance pensions are issued. No foreign pensions are issued. No public pensions are issued. No pensions of legal persons under public law are issued. There is a huge issue with the widow's pensions. And, I'm sorry to say it, but with constant statements you play with the pain of people who have already been hard on them. You've been talking for months - you're supposed to bring in a new arrangement. You're all announcing it, but we don't see this new arrangement. And soon the deadlines for the widows who lost their man will expire, and they have not reached the age limit that you set. Also, the Court of Auditors has pointed out here in the House that there is an ever-new time-consuming issue, due to the lack of EFKA to clear up outstanding pensions. No one knows how many unfinished pensions are because of a new practice that you have set up at the Ministry, close the files when there is an excuse. We are told that there are cases where the Ministry asks for an additional supporting document from the pensioner and closes the file, so that the pension does not appear to be pending. In general, on the issue of outstanding pensions, Mr Minister, fifty-four Members of the New Democracy recently tabled a written question. We're still waiting for your answer. For, while congratulating you - and indeed you are always here to answer topical questions - the Ministry of Labour has not answered a written question for three years. This is also a big issue in parliamentary control. I am therefore waiting for answers on these issues in your second language. And I think it would also be important to provide a clarification of what you will do about widow's pensions waiting for this famous new provision. And tell us from there and beyond what will happen to the issue of the monthly liquidators. Why aren't they published? Do you not want pensioners to be informed of the amount of the personal difference? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I should like to close up with an issue which concerns the workers in the ECA and has been denounced many times by their federation. Make profound changes to the service hierarchy, even at the level of directors-general, without notices, without crises, but with direct placements. These are issues that need clarification. I'm expecting your dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-28-S1-commons.u7	Before I give you the floor, Minister, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-one students and students and five teachers from the 6th Municipal School of Vlachs Kefalonia and from the 17th Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would inform you, children, that you are attending a parliamentary inspection meeting at which Members come with specific questions to the government, the Ministers and the Ministers. It is one of the main obligations of our parliamentary system. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-28-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. I also welcome the students who are following this debate to remember that this government is seeking to solve problems that have been accumulated in recent years. We must not forget that mortality in Greece from 2010, 2011 to 2014 increased by 18%, and civilian suicides amounted to 7.2%. The image of the waste bins in Athens, from which cats and dogs had disappeared, because they were people eating the leftovers, is an image that you, children, may not have been able to see, but it is a real picture, which has been extinct. We have faced a humanitarian crisis in the country and with difficulties we have created conditions to leave behind. Because the minimum wage for 2010-2014 was reduced by 22% for over twenty-five and 32% for the under twenty-five, and there was in general a decrease in per capita social protection expenditure by 18% between 2010 and 2014. Two and a half million citizens were uninsured, and I have no problem, Mr President of the House, to respond to what Mr Mitterrand said and to others, which are the reasons for what he said. And the causes are the total collapse of the Greek economy, because three million eight hundred thousand people, our fellow citizens, lived below the poverty line, at risk of social exclusion for the two-thirds of young people. That is why this fleeing outside Greece was also provoked. We cannot forget the reasons which, on adverse terms, our government had to face, and we cannot ask as if it forgets what happened to the past. I could answer - I have no problem - for a long time, since we have no further questions. However, if the social security systems were incomplete, it was because we had all these eight different bodies lately - we have had much more in the past - which had different information systems. We had to clear twenty-eight million different registers for just ten million five hundred thousand people. They had created irrational situations and had to change, with the creation of the Single Social Security Agency, which the New Democracy wants to abolish, in order to get back to the old system with the very high contributions and the problems that caused market docks. I repeat - and it is a great responsibility for the country's political world - that our government is trying to solve problems that have been accumulated in the past, with the enormous debts that have arisen, particularly in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which at least New Democracy seems to want to favour. These problems can only be solved with the ECA, because the calculation of the debts can be based on the new method of calculation, based on net revenues. This will bring about a solution. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] On the basis of these questions by Mr Mirtarakis today, I call on the New Democracy to give up the declarations to reduce the main pension, to reduce - and in effect to - supplementary pensions, because the interest in widowhood and widowhood will be hypocritical if at the same time the New Democracy does not resign from its point of view, which it has declared and as a plan, that it will actually make the main variant pensions. If it has money, it will, after it has been drastically cut, which will exceed EUR 2.5 billion in the first year. New Democracy has never answered them. A major problem arises, in deficit, in the transition to a new system of this kind, which will create a need to finance EUR 55 billion for this transition, only for supplementary pensions, and much more for the main ones. In the new way that the New Democracy has clarified that it will deal with the issue, according to what at least Mr Mitsotakis said at the conference of insurance companies, there seems to be no more public social security in Greece. So let us not tell us what it will do for a widow's pension, because there will simply be no possibility of a widow's pension being paid. However, since I will not avoid the exact answer to the question, I will say that in the case of widow's pensions there has been no problem, because there has been no reduction in widow's pension. This is provided for by law by the completion of a three-year period, which ends on 13 May 2019. Right now everyone's getting a widow's pension. We've increased the basic pension. For rural widows it went from EUR 73 to EUR 320 and EUR 720 the widow with a minor child to the rest of the institutions - OIE and IKA - where we effectively doubled the minimum pension. If we sit down and figure out exactly what these amounts are, we will see that there is also an improvement in the pension thresholds that we pay and cover to a large extent the higher. And we must also see where this pension really can be improved, where there is no second pension or real income for those suffering. For the personal difference to say, Mr Mitarakis, that it does not exist. By changing the law, we have abolished the reduction of the personal difference, as formulated in L.4387. We're no longer talking about a personal difference. There's no such thing as that. So don't ask me what it is, because everyone gets the pension they receive and six hundred thousand gets bigger than the pension they receive with the old system. There is therefore no reason to tell the person who has lost nothing exactly what his pension is. It's as much as it was before. The thing is for those who got a raise, to find out why they took her. They will be kept up-to-date as soon as the system is completed, because we really have to deal with issues that we have to resolve, such as what we saw again the other day with the retention of wrong registration contributions, because it did not distinguish those engineers who have already received a wage and at the same time had a free profession. Our law does not impose two whole contributions. If you're an employee and you get a payroll from an employee, then for your remaining income, you don't pay anything or you pay 10 euros for unemployment. So when all of this is settled, because, I repeat, we have to solve the problems of complexity that come from an old age, we will also have the cleansing things that have not yet been issued, because they have not yet been issued, but will be issued in a completely precise way, does not mean that no one loses any right. And it has not caused any loss of rights to that effect so far. It's gonna happen, too. So I call on you, and now, because we are in an ongoing difficult situation - we have not said that we have solved all the problems and that we are proud that we have solved the problems we have solved, we are sympathetic to the people who are still facing the consequences of the crisis, but we are softening up these differences - and I call on the New Democracy to stop talking about the dissolution of the ECA, because we are talking about the dissolution of the social fabric of society. And this should not be allowed and waived by these plans and support the existence of the EVA, which will also lead to the reduction of debts through the system which gives us the opportunity to implement, by redefining the debts, so that the burden on the citizens is lower. Thank you, Mr President, so that I do not abuse your time and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-28-S1-commons.u9	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-28-S1-commons.u10	With the consent of the House at 10.11 the meeting is closed for tomorrow...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-28-S1-commons.u11	If anyone comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-28-S1-commons.u12	Hopefully.
