ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First, allow me to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 8 November 2019, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 170/4-11-2019 by MP Chania of the New Democracy Mr Manosou Voloudakis to the Minister of Finance on the subject: 'Assessment of SMPs and ANFAs for financing public investment'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 183/5-11-2019 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas Kafantaris to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Stylianos Petsas, on the subject: "Promoting the Park of Radio "ERT S.A." in the Municipality of Ilio". 3. The question by number 164/1-11-2019 of the current question by the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'The single rules for the treatment of borrowers'. 4. The 171/5-11-2019 topical question by Piraeus II Pireos of Mera25 Mr. Fotinis Bakadammas to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Inhuman images in the reception and identification centre (CYT) Leros". B. PERSONS OF second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 168/14/11-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Reexamination of the decision to set up a conversion station in Damasa Heraklion’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Systemic repression against citizens who oppose mining in Epirus". 3. The Question No 175/11-2019 by the Deputy of Corfu of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “The EKAB Corfu is in office.” 4. The 173/5-11-2019 topical question by MP B2' West Athens section of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Lucous transport connection between the Municipality of Saints Anargyros and fixed track networks". 5. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Standarding the implementation of high-voltage and removal of high-voltage cables in western Athens". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question posed by Mr Alexandros - Christos Ayloniti to the Minister of Finance, Question No 1107/4-10-2019 by MP Corfu of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Restoration of Achilles Palace's abandonment image in Corfu". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The question asked by Mr Andreas Poulas, Member of the Change Movement, to the Minister of Health, on the question: 'The conclusion of contracts for workers through the NRP and OAED in public hospitals'. 3. Question No 537/6-9-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charalambou Mamoulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The planning of the Government for the two ongoing competitions on the Northern Axis of Crete (BOAK)". Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: ‘We hereby inform you of the debate on the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Thursday 7 November 2019 that the questions to be discussed are as follows: The 185/5-11-2019 topical question, which will be answered by the Minister of Development and Investment Mr Spyridonas - Adonis Georgiadis, the 180/5-11-2019 and 184/11-2019 topical questions, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Konstantinos Skreka, the Question No 165/4-11-2019 topical question, which will be answered by the Secretary of State for National Defence Mr Alkiviadis Stefani, the Question No 181/5-11-2019, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Mitsaraki, and the Question No 167/4-11-2019 topical question, which will be answered by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michalidou." So we begin the debate with the fifth under number 185/11-2019 on a topical question by MP B3's South Athens Coalition Mr Nikolaos Papapas to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "About the privatisation of Greek oil (EL.PE). Mr. Pappa, you have two minutes at your disposal and I inform you that Mr. Georgiadis wants to leave to keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we have seen reports and the government's stated intention of fully privatising the remaining share of the public in the Hellenic Petroleum, and this, as it can be seen, will also concern the allocation of mining rights. Our question today comes to ask you why, what is the economic logic behind this extreme choice and even at a time when assessments and indications are dense that the deposits in the Greek exclusive economic zone are large deposits, which can produce many benefits? You've given a slogan for a general government departure. Unfortunately, our governance has received from you injurious ELPEs - and here, I think, you also have a chance to explain to us, because they were injurious with your own governance and they went to profitability with our own governance, something must have been done there, we had no astronomical increase in turnover - and, of course, we also inherited an obligation for full privatisation, which we have reached at a point where the public share will last and, of course, will have the majority in the state hydrocarbon company. Now we have a setback. And be careful to see what's going on here. For PPC, the government tells you he's going to sell it because he's supposed to be loss-making. The ELPEs want you to sell them even though they're profitable. In other words, with profits and losses and cold and hot, you're the ones selling. We know why. Because to your honor you have accepted that you are thieves. We are waiting for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much. The Minister for Development and Investment will answer Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis. Mr. Georgiadis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. How nice it would be, Mr Pappa, that life for you in the Left Coalition, if you hadn't ruled. How nice it would be! You would come here today, make a nice "declaration", about like the one we heard, against the privatisation of the ELPEs would expose you about the means of the Left to fight against privatisation, and you would be a little overthrown by the memorable Margaret Thatcher, you would say to me about how spectacular neoliberal I am and we would all be happy. Unfortunately for you, Mr. Pappas, you ruled. You said before, 'the extreme choice of privatisation' and said that you had ensured the majority of the public.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u6	The hydrocarbon company.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u7	You said that on purpose while we are talking about the ELPEs. What for? To avoid the Greek people hearing a date: 18-4-2018. Do you know what that date is? It is the date when the GOI conducted an international tender for the sale of 50.1% of ELPE's share capital. Do you remember, Mr Pappa, on 18-4-2018 who was the Prime Minister of the country and who was the Minister? You Minister, the lady next to you, Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Prime Minister. Well, you dignified opponents of Thatcher, against privatization, how did you not propose your breasts, stop this shameful sale of the profitable company of Greek oil? Now I'm gonna do a parentheses here. You asked me for some explanation, because it was loss-making in our day and profitable in your day. Although I have been offered many times - and even completely free of charge - to invite me to Koumoundourou to give you key economic lessons, you have not accepted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u8	You to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u9	I, of course. Because one, not a freshman, would know that when the oil is 100 dollars and the refineries' profit margins are small, when the oil goes 27 dollars, the refineries' profit margins are large. Even you understand that. So you shouldn't have asked me. Secondly and above all, you will certainly be aware, especially with regard to the ELPEs, that two billion investments have been made in our own government to become the new refinery, which you had the luck of opening up on your day. In other words, we pay to increase the production of ELPE, so it was the time when we put the money and reduced production, and you enjoyed lower oil prices and a new refinery with the key in the hand. And you come here and you do us smart. So to get to the point. The "extreme" choice of the privatisation of the ELPEs - you called it "extreme" choice - was made by Greek Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. He made this "extreme" choice. He didn't make it, but - and I'm going to close with that protology - why didn't he? He did not, because because of his bad governance, the price that your administration was taking was too low and therefore did not meet the conditions of the competition. Obviously, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, if the privatisation takes place and in any way chosen, the price will be much higher. But in order not to stay in the process of privatisation, Mr President - and I am closing - I will only read the paragraph of enhanced supervision in June 2019. Why would you say: 'Okay, from April 2018 until now, we had changed our minds'. No, because in June 2019, that is, four months ago, in the text of enhanced institutional supervision, we read: "In relation to the ELPEs, an agreement was reached between the Greek authorities - that is, the Government of Tsipras - that the Tsipras is receiving a mandate to study all available options in the direction of the transaction - that is, privatisation". So you were discussing whether it would be done with "book value", whether it would be done with an international competition, whether it would be done with a strategic investor, but the transaction, that is, the sale of 50.1%, was agreed again by you in June 2019. And you come, Mr. Pappa, in November 2019 and put Margaret Thatcher in your mouth! Leave her where she is, you've gotten over Margaret Thatcher. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Pappa, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Georgiadis, we don't have to do here that we don't understand. The text you have read refers to an agreement, whereby the public sector holds 50.1% of the mining and rights company and, of course, a significant share, because it was a tripartite agreement, it had both the public and private investor and, of course, the institutional agreement. The private investor has unilaterally withdrawn from this agreement. One thing I asked you: will you go for a total withdrawal from the Greek Petroleum company? You didn't answer me. Privatization of one, privatisation and the other. And I'm telling you, we inherited from you - I'm not talking about the "wonderful" inspiring phosphats who know financially about Thatcher and Pinochet, who said we're going to make 50 billion of the privatisations in 2010 and 2012, but we inherited an agreement that said we're going to leave the public as a whole. So we're changing this deal. You come and you read us here the last text of the institutions which says that we need to see what ideas can be applied to move forward with the agreement. You're going to what we agreed to? That would be an answer. Now tell us you're going to the deal where it holds the public share and 50.1% of the mining company. You didn't say that. You put a sign of privatization, you said your knowledge, that we had already exceeded you - to God - and you continued. And to prevent you, it is not unusual for the public to keep a significant share of companies especially having such critical infrastructure and rights in their hands. I'm not telling you about countries like China and Mexico. I would refer you to countries such as Norway, where STATOIL is 67% public, such as our neighbour Italy, which has the 'ENI' with which we also have contracts, with 30.1 participation of the public. So I do not understand what ideology will lead you to go to a choice that will lead the public to withdraw overall, to abandon the mining rights and instead of an exclusive economic zone to have private marine land and, of course, to put aside participation in an organisation that produces profits. It's an ideal choice. I urge you even now to commit and explain to us because you have invoked the agreement that we have made: Are you going back to it? It's a very simple question. I'll take it and welcome it half. I'm being honest with you. If you return to what we agreed, that the Greek State holds the majority in the mining company and participates in the ELPEs, it is a very important news.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much Mr. Pappa. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u13	Firstly, Mr Papa, I did not expect such a blow under the belt to your colleagues, such as Yannis Ragus, Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou, your friend Christos Spirtzis. Shame on you. You said: 'For the light bulbs of 50 billion'. We are aware that the estimate of 50 billion was made with the government of George Papandreou. I respect you, but be in Parliament and blame so many of your colleagues on the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group in this disgraceful way? Don't you know that signature was signed by Yiannis Ragousi underneath, Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou, Christos Spirtzis, Panagiotis Kourublis? You don't respect all of them? You throw them in the trash, don't you? You're throwing them to eat, that they were unrelated to economics? Shame on you. But to get to know each other, you have just accused the half-parliamentary group of SYRIZA. If half the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, as former ministers of the government of Papandreou and passols, are useless financially, as you said, it is your problem. You should discuss this at a meeting of your central committee. Let's go to the question now. There's no big news. There's a fierce lie from you. There is the press release of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Environment and Energy on 1 October 2019. From your position, you cannot read the ELPE Press Releases. Minister is Kostis Hatzidakis: "It is a government commitment that we are moving in the direction agreed by the SYRIZA Government. Examines all options and we will obviously judge on the basis of the public interest and the national interest.’ And a little further says Minister Kostis Hatzidakis: "We do not intend the public to withdraw from ELPE as a whole." So you know that. So, why are you asking me? To remind you that you started privatization and all your friends on the left that you're hypocrites? But listen, now, the best. You're telling me about mining rights, etc. First of all, Mr President, I should like to say - and I should like to say in the Minutes - that the reports on the investigation of large-scale deposits have been disproved by the ELPE administration. These investigations have not yet begun to have any concrete evidence. I wish they could prove true in the future. Today there are some scientific theories. I wish they were. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But are you not telling me, Mr Pappas, since you are telling me about ELPEs and mining contracts, do you know in the contracts negotiated by Mr Tsipras and Mr Stathakis, in these mining contracts you were saying, what is the real involvement of ELPEs? I'll tell you now. Two of the four participate in 20% and the manager of one of the four ELPEs is in two. All other contracts and all other rates, i.e. 80% of the two and 100% of the other two, the SYRIZA government has given them to the private sector, to private companies, Greek and foreign. I told you again at the beginning. I want you to realize. I'm telling you, for your own good, I'm not telling you about your harm. Do not come here to the House pretending that the people suffer from an amnesia and do not remember who ruled in 2015-2019. In 2015-2019 you ruled. You ruled with a memorial. You took Siomple's credit, privatized, fixed the supreme demilitarization fund, gave all the Greek public guarantee. So, especially you, SYRIZA, can't talk again against privatization and the defence of supposedly public property ever. It will be three thousand years, you will apologise to the Left's friends and they may at one time forgive you. But I want to tell you something personal. I will tell you and what is the difficult position in which you have brought me personally. When we started our political path and had disagreements, I, from the outset, from the first day I became a Member, since 2007, was 'in favour' of privatisation. I was never "against". It is always 'in favour' of privatization. You, SYRIZA, were on the sidewalks, shouting against 'COSCO', against 'LAMDA' and Greek, against 'FRAPORT', said there your friend from Crete "I will put my breasts in front of not selling Chania airport to the Germans" and stuff like that. You came to power and sold it all. Do you now understand how difficult you've brought me? If I for privatization see you selling everything, what do I have to do to justify my ideology? That's the difficulty you've brought me. This is indeed a difficulty, because it is difficult to overcome you as to your passion to sell all the public property. That is why it is extremely strange that you come to the House and again pretend your previous self. He's gone. It's over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u14	Be well. Thank you very much. Have a good time. We continue with the third with No 167/4-11-2019 topical question of the second-cycle question of Parliament's B3' South Athens Department of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theanos Fotou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Is the fulfillment of the three hundred and ninety-three organic positions in the privileged bodies established by SYRIZA with permanent staff?' Mrs. Fotio, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u15	Minister, the thirteen social protection centres of the regions that you are leading, were set up by Law 4109/2013 as well as by Law 4109/2013, the Centre for Blind Education and Rehabilitation - CEC - and the National Centre for Social Solidarity - ECA -. So these sixteen institutions have been facing serious staff problems, the result of the Memorandumary Rule five to one in recruitment, so that no permanent staff have been recruited for ten years. After August 2018, when we came out of the memoranda, the SYRIZA government proceeded with article 35 of Law 4578/2018. The previous article of the law I am saying concerned three hundred forty-three permanent posts in these CSFs. Furthermore, under Article 86 of Law 4611 on 2019, we have fifty other permanent positions in the above CIs, i.e. a total of three hundred and thirty-three permanent staff positions in desired skills defined by the institutions themselves and allocated to all of them, as well as the way in which these positions are filled with CIs. In order not to lose the accumulated experience of existing ancillary staff, however, a specific modulation of experience was envisaged. Legal proceedings have been initiated, but they have been interrupted because of the use of the ballots for the last four months, the government has frozen them completely. In addition to these three hundred and ninety-three permanent posts, Article 88 of Law No4611/2019 provides for additional ancillary staff to be recruited so that, for the first time, the staff of these institutions will be increased by 15%. At the same time, we handed you sixteen agencies to which these three hundred and ninety-three permanent posts were foreseen, and they are frozen. Nowadays, workers in the social protection centres are striken and complaining that you refuse to implement Article 35 of Law 4578/2019, what I mentioned to you in the notice of the competition for legitimate positions. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theano Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I ask you what you're going to do. Will you proceed to fulfill the three hundred and ninety-three positions of the public welfare law-enforcement legal persons, established by SYRIZA, with permanent staff, and apply the planned mobilisation by Law 4578/2018? Secondly, will you extend the term of office of the existing AS, as provided for in Article 35 of Law 4578/2018, until the completion of the process of selecting permanent staff, i.e. the posting of final lists of selected staff, so as not to jeopardise the smooth operation of the care units of the relevant bodies? Because, Minister, you are dangerously late and things are in red. You are at risk of blowing off legal persons under public law in the air.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs Fotio. The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Domna Michailidou. Mrs. Michailidou, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Fotou. I'm really glad about the question you're asking me. I am pleased to have this step to inform both the national delegation and our fellow citizens of the course of this issue. I will soon explain the history of the matter, so that everyone who is following us for his outcome and the way we have managed it since the beginning of the point where we have received authority, that is, that we have received the Ministry. As you said, in accordance with the provisions of Article 34 of Law 4578/2018, in social welfare centres, in the EKK, in the EKK, in the KEAT and in the Karpenisi Therapy - the Evrytania Therapy for accuracy - which are supervised by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, three hundred and forty-one permanent staff were set up. In accordance with Article 35(1) of the same law, these positions are to be covered by a modulation on their pre-service. Specifically, they take forty molecules for every month to forty - eight months and seven molecules per month for the next forty - eight to eighty - four months. Pursuant to the above provisions, the Ministerial Act was adopted to fill these three hundred organic positions in the above entities, of which twenty-four had to be committed in order to meet the positions of individuals protected by the provisions of Law 2643/1998. That's what you probably forgot about them at the time, but it's okay you remembered them afterwards. How did you remember them? Why did you provide for further provisions - Article 86 of Law 4611/2019 this time - that in the same centres, in the CICs, the EICs, the CECs, and the Evritania Therapy, you should add fifty-two seats to the three hundred ones that you had already foreseeed, but you have forgotten the twenty-four that should be committed by permanent staff set up under Article 34 of Law 4578/2018. When we took over, in July, we realized that, on the one hand, the procedures provided for in the law that you adopted in 2018 to call for these posts and on the other hand, there was the question of the imminent ending of contracts concluded by contractors in social welfare centres, as you rightly said. In these circumstances, immediately and immediately I asked the departments of the Ministry to speed up the preparatory administrative action in order to send the AACC a request for a three hundred seventeen posts - we this time considered the positions provided for by Law 2643/1998 - to the surveillance bodies from the Ministry, which was held on 9 August. So what do we got? On 9 July we take authority, on 9 August we send the AACC the request for a notice. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u18	How many places?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u19	Three hundred seventeen places we sent to the ADP. In a month. I would remind you that you legislated in 2018 that by February you would have sent the notice. In February you didn't send the contract notice. You made an amendment and said legislatively that we cannot cover what we had foreseen in 2018 for February 2019, so you changed the legislation to go from February to June. In June you did not foresee and send the notice, whenever we come in July and within a month we send the notice to the AACC. And not only from 9 July on 9 August, I send the notice to the AACC, but I also visit the president of the AACC on 13 August, the man has just returned for one day from his vacation, so that we can discuss this and speed up the procedures. So in 2018, you are planning February, in February, you do not send the notice, relegate to send it in June and June again you are not sending it. And you come here to ask me why a month after I took over the subway of this ministry, I come and do the job you've left for a year? I'm really wondering.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u20	And please complete. I'm pushing a little 'cause we got an event later. That's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u21	I'll be done. To answer your specific questions, firstly, the mobilisation of the AS's pre-service will be maintained in the notice for permanent staff, as provided for by the law. Secondly, in your question, Mrs Fotou, you hide that the legislative provision brought to Parliament by the SYRIZA - ANEL government at that time does not provide for the extension of temporary staff's contracts of employment. And that's where we need some emergency staff? We need temporary staff because when you legislated for a permanent job, you did not do so in the timetable you said you were taking the permanent one, so the need for an emergency came up. But the need for an emergency is not to be predicted until the provisional lists of nominations are drawn up, but to be provided for up to 31-12-2019. So a big gap arises. In any case, any renewal under a law of these contracts, namely those which expire on 31/12-2019, would be confronted with the intention of approving the relevant payroll costs by the Commissioners of the Court of Auditors and you will know that better than I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u22	You're done?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u23	I conclude with this. In short, you are enacting organic positions in 2018, extending them twice, in June after the second extension you have not yet sent the notice, coming a month later, sending the notice and now awaiting the issue of the notice from ASP within a few days and coming and asking for the change. And I can't tell if that's naive or hypocrisy. And I fear that if it is hypocrisy, there the Greeks are no longer frustrated with this hypocrisy, but are disappointed that an institution such as the Qualified Opposition is entering into this act.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u24	Mrs. Fotou, you have three minutes to answer. As much as you're trying, Minister, you can't scoop out the numbers. What do the numbers say? We handed you three hundred forty-one permanent posts with PSF, i.e. by a cabinet act, end of April. You forgot that the national elections were announced in May. And because the state has all the time, I really don't understand why you just took over, you didn't send the ADP the three hundred one positions. As for these insurmountables, you changed them because we had made a 15% mistake of the law-provided places for the disabled, you still don't know arithmetic. At three hundred forty-one seats 15% are fifty-one. These are the additional fifty three posts, therefore, which we have been proclaiming. So how did you get the three hundred ninety-three to take it down to three hundred seventeen? I asked you and you replied that it was three hundred seventeen. What an alchemy that is, I don't understand it. In fact, you are the ones of this government with the alchemys. I ask you the following, Mrs Michaelidou, and now try with numbers to answer me: we, when we published the three hundred and ninety-three seats, knew that these positions would be mainly covered by officials. That is why we have extended the term of office to the servants. That's very simple. You were able to call on the servants of three hundred and ninety-three and extend their term of office until the end of 2020. He wanted a suggestion. Five hundred thousand laws you bring, couldn't you modify this proposal? Are you seriously saying that you were unable to modify the extension of the term of today's subsidiary, despite the fact that you are mocking them? Do you know what you're doing, Mrs. Michaelidou? An amazing alchemy. It's like the alchemy of unaccompanied refugees, who made them grown from 15 years of age and over. So, what are you doing: Proclaim first - and tell me if I'm wrong - AS positions. What does it mean if you publish them before the permanents? We were saying three hundred and ninety-three permanent posts and another four hundred later, with the auxiliary staff. Because if you read the law, you'll see that the law provides extra subsidiary staff. What does that mean in numbers? That for the first time in the country we would have an increase in the staff currently operating in institutions by at least 20%. Understand? And that was our big achievement. That's what we were trying to do. Where did you get three hundred seventeen? Did you drop your number from heaven? I don't understand! Did you have that kind of money, why did you spend everything else? So I'm telling you again: I think that, because these positions are not coming out so far - the permanent positions have not come - you are currently calling the subsidiary. And disprove me if I'm wrong. If you call the subsidiary first, the very simple thing will happen, that we will lose four hundred more positions of the three hundred ninety-three in the foundations. Try to understand that. It's hard, I get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u25	Complete, Mrs. Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u26	I'm done. I have given you sixteen new agencies. You froze them. There are three hundred ninety-three permanent posts within these agencies. I understand your inexperience. I see you with sympathy. I'm available, whatever time you want, to explain. I came to your department when you called me and sat for an hour and a half. Welfare is a serious case. It is not about charity or volunteering, it is simply about civil society. The welfare is precisely about state intervention on those groups - disabled, children, elderly, deprived - where the state intervenes to restore inequalities. You must understand that, Mrs. Michaelidou, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u27	Mrs. Fotio, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u28	The state therefore intervenes to restore inequalities, for that is precisely the role of the state. And this is done either by benefits or by services. Today we are discussing services. And I have to tell you that, in my view, the state is constantly on its way. So I call on you to leave these and immediately open the three hundred and three hundred permanent posts, as we have anticipated, to extend until the end of 2020 the mandates of the auxiliary scientific staff, to call immediately after the four hundred new ancillary staff posts, and to proceed immediately to the adoption of the presidential decrees of the agencies that we have delivered to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, I think that's three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much. Thanks for the list of things you haven't done. I think the National Representation was informed, but also the other Greeks. I don't know where to start, but I'll find something. So, what have you delivered beyond the list of things you haven't done? Surrendered vacant posts. You have given up positions that you had adopted, and within a year you have not published them. So coming here and asking us to publish them, since we already did it in a month - already, that is, we sent them to the ADP within a month, and you didn't do it in a year -, I'd rather not describe it. Beyond vacant posts what else you delivered. You made promises. You know, workers in these structures come every day - and come from the first day - in my office to seek a solution to this issue. So you deliver vacant posts, deliver promises and create a hostage situation to all these people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u31	Then why are the workers denounced?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u32	Mrs. Fotou, please. Six minutes you've spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u33	I will make a comment on this. As far as mathematics is concerned, 15% goes out separately. That is why he did not run together. And 15% don't count it separately. It enters every set we ask for a notice from the AACC. For the fifty-three-three-three-three-three-three-three places - for these fifty-three places that you later legislated - nothing had happened to go on. No PHS, nothing. So what do we do? We're already working on it. Arithmetic: I think you should not speak of arithmetic or, at least, when you speak, of doing things in advance. Because the last time you came out and made a statement about the arithmetic of our Ministry and my statements, you made it very wrong. And you made it wrong, and that's why you've probably pulled it off. I am referring in particular to the childbirth allowance, for which you said that the amount paid in the budget is not sufficient. How is it not enough? Didn't we say this was going to happen in two instalments? Didn't we say the birth allowance, Mrs. Fotio, will be made in two instalments?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, I will answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u35	Mrs. Fotou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u36	For 70% the birth allowance...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u37	Mrs. Fotio, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u38	I don't know your doctorate...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u39	I don't know if you have the doctorate or not, but you don't have it, you can do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u40	Mrs. Fotio, let the State Secretary finish. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u41	Mrs. Undersecretary...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u42	I don't know what you have, Mrs. Fotio, but if you have it, you can do it. Finally, something about alchemy, because I see that you are using it a lot. I don't know if you're a big fan of Paulo Colio and his Alchemirist, but this Colio's thinking, because I want something very much, the universe will conspire and happen, we on our side do not believe it. To do something, we do a lot of work. We don't just believe it. And we did a lot of work in the first month. And that hour and a half when you handed me a single page at the Ministry, after I called you to tell me what's going on with this ministry, you didn't let me know. We, it's not because we want something very much and we believe that the universe will conspire. Some of us read Colio, but we read other writers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much. We are now passing on to the fourth with number 184/5-11-2019, a topical question by MP Rodopi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Dimitrios Charitou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "The farmers of the Rhodope Prefecture expect compensation". Mr. Haritou, you have two minutes at your disposal. Please be consistent in your time, because there is pressure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undersecretary, one hundred and fifty-five thousand acres, one of the most productive, with the most dynamic crops in Rhodope - cotton, tobacco, corn and trees - were affected by an unprecedented quartz that caused huge disasters. About half of these lands were completely destroyed. In fact, at the time of the catastrophe, the producers had carried out most of the farming operations - that is, most of the costs of production have been incurred - and they have been waiting for harvesting, at a time when yields are particularly high in cotton, but very low, prices of unsuccessful cotton, the lowest in the last five years. You realise, Minister, that the pressure currently on the incomes of producers is enormous. Approximately six thousand farms are in a very bad position, not to say that they are in despair at the moment. Besides, you've recently visited the area. So I'm going to ask you very specific questions and I want answers: What specific measures will you take to ensure that compensation is paid as soon as possible and in a fair manner to the producers affected? Is it your intention to pay directly part of the compensation as an advance to those who have total destruction? There is within the ELGA system and programme. So I ask you, if you have anticipated in the ELGA budget such a possibility, since you have known of the damage beforehand, and if not why. What measures will you take to ensure that the associated cotton aid is paid on time so that double losers, Minister, are not found, because, as you know, the damage does not cover the minimum area yield required for blooming cotton? Furthermore, Minister, I would like to ask you about the ministerial decision you are preparing in November on compensation under the PCAs scheme: will it relate only to payments from 2019, or will it relate to payments from 2018? Because, in particular, last year, the damage, particularly to tobacco farming, was severely damaged by the viruses. Finally, Minister, I would like to ask you what other measures you think or intend to take to support the income of producers, especially those affected, if - as we all say - the primary sector is a key area for the productive reconstruction of our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Haritou. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas. Mr. Screka, you've got three minutes strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member, Mr Haritos, for the question he has asked us, because in this way we are being given the opportunity to show the Greek Parliament today the important issue arising from the effects of climate change, which, unfortunately, are knocking on the door of Greece. And, unfortunately, the results of these negative consequences feel first and foremost and above all the people of the countryside, namely Greek farmers, Greek farmers, who see their crops and their crops being destroyed through unique evolving weather phenomena that are now happening in our country on a repeated and regular basis. Let us say, by the way, that this is an issue which we, as a new government, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr New Democracy, have given priority to dealing with, as well as with, the strategy that we are planning for the new common agricultural policy and, of course, through a new plan to address and compensate the risks arising from the weather phenomena, which damage Greek crops. I would like to tell you that in this programming period, in the CAP that we are going through, there were measures from the Rural Development Programme, there was European money that could be made available on condition to Greek farmers, so that they could insure their production, without having additional costs, but using precisely these European money. In this way they would have total compensation for the damage they have suffered, because, as you know, the ELGA currently compensates for a proportion of the damage, which reaches about 70% if we have a total destruction. Therefore, we could use European money to cover more and more of the damage, but also more of the risks of insurance, but, unfortunately, the previous government, over the last four and a half years, did not activate these measures. The previous leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, SYRIZA, did not use this money, so that these have been made available for other purposes and today, the need comes - as you quite rightly say - to help Greek farmers and farmers Rhodope, that there is no possibility. Unfortunately, then, European money, in addition to what we have and will be able to use, has not been foreseen by the previous SYRIZA government, which has ruled the country for four and a half years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u47	Please complete, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u48	And that answers what you said about the provision for the ELGA budget, if there is, that is, the provision in the ELGA budget for exceptional allowances. I will tell you this: ELGA's budget, as you know, is being shaped, planned last year. We received ELGA in July 2019 with serious deficits. In 2014, ELGA was a surplus organisation, i.e. it had more contributions than it paid. In the last three consecutive and consecutive years, ELGA is a deficit, resulting in a loss of that surplus, which we had handed over as a previous government in 2014. And, of course, there is a need for a radical redesign of his regulation now, so that he can also face the increasing damages which are now happening, but also for the way in which he pays or on the other hand - to say so - he asks for such contributions from farmers. The rest I'll tell you in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Haritou, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u50	Minister, I have tabled very specific questions: if the advance payment is paid and what measures will you take to ensure that the associated aid is paid on time. Instead, I received general references and no specific commitment on the questions. And if I understood well from what you described in relation to the use of European insurance funds, you were about to imply that Community aid would be used as a premium for premiums. Because it looks like this conversation you guys are doing there at the Ministry. In other words, instead of thinking about how to streamline it, how ELGA will be modernised so that, in fact, it covers the new problems created by climate change that you have said, your thoughts are rather towards private insurance companies. I would say to you, Mr Secretary-General, that if you did indeed hear the outgoing administration of the ELGA asking you to increase the budget in the summer to cover these exceptional damages caused, now you would be in a position not to deny the request I made to you - and it is universal - for farmers in the region. What can we do, though? And I'm not talking to you, Mr. Undersecretary. The mind isn't in ELGA. The mind is how you invite private insurance companies. I would therefore like to say very clearly that this particular ELGA, despite the serious problems it has, has supported the income of producers over the years, so that they can today continue their activities. So I would like to ask you this: you said that you will proceed to modernise this organization. Will you continue the proportionate studies initiated by the previous government? Now, Mr Secretary, there is a contractor with standards, with specifications for how to rationalise and modernise the ELGA regulation. Will you take advantage of the study carried out in the new PAA - do you have it in the Ministry's drawers - on how you will manage the negative effects on agricultural production from weather phenomena? I would therefore like to tell you very clearly that you need, in fact, to take steps to rationalise and modernise the ELGA regulation to meet the needs, but I think there should also be policies of support in particular for the rural world, which are currently suffocating, Mr Secretary-General, particularly the farmers who are almost extinguished to leave their activities, much more so the affected producers who have been waiting for specific, binding answers from you today and, unfortunately, have not been there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much Mr. Haritou. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes strictly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking with the honourable Member for the first time in the Greek Parliament. Of course, I had the pleasure and honour of meeting him last weekend when I visited his region of origin and the region in which he was elected, the Rhodope Prefecture. In particular, we met in a historic municipality, the municipality of Jasmou. I would like to say to you, Mr President - if you would like to take it into account, if you do not want, no - that neither with the make news nor with words that you have not said in the mouth of the opponent politician, you can get some communication gains, because what you have said is not what I have said. What I said very specifically is that, in my view, it is criminal for there to be European money available to support Greek farmers and use them to obtain supplementary insurance, without accurateing the insurance costs they pay and not doing so by the previous government. When there is European money, when Europe tells you that as a country, as a Member State, you can use this money to secure their production and thus cover a greater part of the damage - 100% - and more insurance risks from weather phenomena or diseases or whatever else, I think it is meaningless, that the previous government should not use this. So we will use this measure, plan it, so that we can give farmers the opportunity to have better insurance for their crops, without increasing their costs. And there, of course, we will - on a voluntary basis or with a project that is absolutely transparent and fair - the possibility of supporting this too, since it offers better services than we have today. At the same time, there will be two pillars for the better insurance of farmers. In particular, to the questions you raised: Firstly, tens of thousands of acres have suffered enormous damage from quarantine and severe weather conditions. You're asking for an advance payment. You are well aware that the current ELGA regulation does not allow for indemnity payments before the findings have been notified and concluded. We have done what we have done since the beginning is to organise, press and set up a large group of valuers in order to get back to the affected areas and proceed directly to recording the damage. We are then following on a daily basis how completion of the findings is progressing, so that farmers and farmers, as you quite rightly said, can be compensated as soon as possible for the damages suffered by the weather phenomena at the time of harvest, even before they have been able to harvest and while they have done all the cultivation costs and are currently exposed and owe money to suppliers, but they do not have the income to live on their families. That, of course, is what we do. And you'll see that for the first time the ELGA will pay far sooner than the previous years. Of course, we are not satisfied, and that is why we say that the ELGA needs a comprehensive redesign and its regulation, but also its organisational structure, so that it best meets today's needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, let me raise two - three specific issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u55	Yeah, but we're stalling. We have three other topical questions and we have to finish them by 10:30. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u56	As far as the special linked cotton aid is concerned I would like to say: because those who have been damaged probably do not get the 'neck', as we say, of the area-based return in order to enable the right of the special coupled aid to be triggered, I must inform you that if they have submitted an application to come the valuer of the ELGA, that is, they have applied to record their damage, for these people, and since the percentage of the damage they have in their production, they are throwing them under this 'neck', the right to the associated aid is being activated. In case 100% damage has been done, also for these people the special attachment is immediately activated and they can get it. We will try to get this special linked those who have suffered 100% damage and, indeed, very quickly. Finally, as far as compensation prices are concerned, we have very low prices in cotton this year. You know they're ranging from 0,40, 0,42, 0,43 minutes right on the blossom. However, the price at which they will be compensated is the average value of the last three years, which is about 0.45 cents per kilo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. You remain in your position, because you will also answer Mr Kegeroglu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known in this House that the Ministers for Economic, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, Education and Religious Affairs, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Justice, Home Affairs, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism and State tabled a draft law on 4-11-2019: "Structuring a) from 25-9-2019 B.N. ‘Urgent arrangement for exemption from the obligation to pay the residence tax’ (A'142), (b) of 30-9-2019 P.N.A. (c) of 4-10-2019 P.P. 'Urgent arrangements of responsibility of the Ministry of Health' (A to 150) and other provisions.' It was referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. In addition, the Minister of Culture and Sport, Economic, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, Justice, Home Affairs, and the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, submitted a draft law on 4-11-2019: ‘Statement of the Council of Europe Convention signed at Maglingen/Macolin on 18 September 2014 on the manipulation of sports matches, emergency measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The MP, Mr. Ioannis Economou, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from Wednesday 6 November 2019 until Thursday 7 November 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u58	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Member Eleni Agathopoulos requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from Thursday 7 November 2019 until Wednesday 13 November 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u59	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Congressman Angelos Syrigos is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from Friday, November 8th to Monday, November 11th, 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u60	The House therefore approved the requested permission. MEP George Mulkiotis requests permission from a short-day absence abroad from Friday 8 November 2019 to Monday 11 November 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u61	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Now we will discuss the second question with number 180/5-11-2019 in the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Oil farming and olive oil emit SOS. Does anyone hear?’ The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Konstantinos Skrekas. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes and please keep them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, can you hear me? We have a huge problem, which is not in the last few days or months. In the past few years, there has been a dismantling of the olive oil, as to how to deal with the Ministry's way of dealing with plant protection and the necessary homicide. And I call it "necessary" and collective, because, as you know, it cannot be done by each producer separately. There has been no effective use of the programmes that have to do with the upgrading of quality. At the same time, the Ministers have signed an increase in the quantities imported duty free from third countries. The quantities produced have been gradually reduced - I have the figures in the question - and the result is reflected in the price. Small quantities, with a considered degraded quality, according to the characteristics they place and measure it, of course, and a low price. That's what the producers are experiencing. It's not short-term. I strike the bell and I identify the producers who emit SOS, because this gradual depreciation has strategic characteristics in the sense that if the problem is not tackled in time, with a reversal of the causes that lead to depreciation, we will have a disastrous result for olive oil production in our country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u63	Thank you. Mr. Screka, you have the floor. Please very much for three minutes, not six as before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I think that Mr Kegeroglou has identified and raised a very important issue, which is about the competitiveness of Greek agriculture as a whole and, of course, about the problems that the olive sector is facing today in the country. You are quite right, Mr Colleague, that we need to see and plan strategically what we are going to do in the coming years for the basic agricultural product, the exportable agricultural product of the country, which is oil and, of course, the edible olive. I note that more than 60% of the farms in the country are engaged in the olive-growing sector. From that point on, you mentioned an issue which has to do with imports from third countries of agricultural products, namely oil, which the European Commission, through the process of the Free Trade Agreements with third countries, has given rise to the possibility - after a collective decision of the European Commission, I repeat - of importing from third countries, namely Tunisia - of greater quantities of oil. Here quite rightly you find an important issue, which we, as a new government in this country - and the Minister for Rural Development, Makis, and I myself too - have many times in international meetings and in international meetings and in European locusts too: we cannot, on the one hand, continue to put specific conditions and protocols on how to cultivate, produce, distribute and promote European products - strictly quality protocols to preserve and safeguard the quality of European products - and, on the other, let us freely, without any control, agricultural products from third countries enter the European area and not to check that they have been produced with the corresponding cultivation protocols which ensure the corresponding quality. So that's right, you've spotted it, that here's where the big game has to be. As far as the Greek oil and olive oil are concerned, we have to mention the great success of the Prime Minister of the country, Mr Mitsotakis, who personally dealt with - and the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, of course - as regards the exclusion of Greek olive oil and of the Greek edible olive from the customs duties which the United States of America would like to impose on European products through this process, which, unfortunately, has begun - as far as the aeronautical industry is concerned. The country's Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis personally dealt with and managed to exclude both olive oil and edible olive, which constitute 50%, at least, of the exports of agricultural products to the USA from these duties. I should also like to point out that Greece is the only country to be excluded from these duties, especially for edible olives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u66	Minister, from the contents of your reply, you seem to have not received the message, you have not permeated the danger of leading to a complete dead end, olive cultivation and olive oil. In recent years, as I have explained in my first speech, there has indeed been a gradual depreciation of the plant protection programme and, of course, no action has been taken to address new risks that have arisen and afflicted the olive. The second thing that happened in previous years was to increase these duty-free quantities from third countries and, indeed, by labelling - and you were right at this point - that production is not guaranteed from anywhere that it is qualitative. There is no respect for the rules of good agricultural practice, nor do they comply with any standards. They just have the feature. And when, as you are well aware, consumers cannot control quality when there is no such control at the level of the European Union, then we must address the problem of production and the disposal of the product, the introduction made through these procedures that the previous government has unfortunately co-signed. I note that you are using, however, as an alibi the wrong choices of the previous government. You are using as an alibi the fact that they signed the increase in these quantities, that they have repudiated the homicide programme, when they did two months after the start of sending the funds. That's a fact. But you have no excuse today to do anything about it, using this alibi. Three things I suggest you do and I want answers to them. The first is whether there was a process of informing the European Union about the damages of previous years and the loss of income, not covered by the ELGA. The previous government was supposed to initiate proceedings in order to submit a dossier to the European Union. You can tell us exactly what has happened, what has been submitted, in order to cover the lost income of producers. See directly the issue of the regulation in the House to possibly fill gaps in the regulation of the ELGA. You cannot constantly invoke the fact that the regulation does not provide for it and do not bring a regulation here. He doesn't need much. Three lines are if you have the will. The third and most important strategy is to establish a scientific committee immediately and work with two universities - and three if you want - with the scientists in our country to see how we upgrade the homicide programme and how we deal with the new risks that have arisen. You know that one of the new enemies of olive tree is sea snail, where last year destroyed production in Crete and we all thought it was from the torch. It was also from the torch, but the twin was destructive. Therefore, a scientific committee directly for the study and how to deal with the problem, compensation through the dossier for producers and legislation amending the ELGA Regulation. Producers should not be helpless. It's a national product. So put your priority on it. Finally, we need to know who's in charge of the Ministry. Mrs Arabaji met yesterday with a committee. He said, "I will answer you in writing as competent". Are you responsible for plant production, Mrs. Arabaji or the Minister? I don't have a problem with who he is, but knowing who he is, knowing where we're going to go and where we're going to go. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Screka, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u68	First of all, as you know very well - you have also been a government official, i.e. at ministerial level - the competences are clear. They are nominated by the Presidential Decree and by the decision of the Prime Minister and the respective Minister at the Ministry. From there on, of course every time in the House, the Minister who undertakes to represent the Ministry on the specific day the question is tabled. This is not a matter of authority or authority. Here we must give answers, provide solutions and inform the Greek people about what the current government intends to do, which, as I said to you - and I disagree with what you said - has put the agricultural sector and the primary sector of the country first. This is also demonstrated by the actions of the Prime Minister himself, with the exception of duties on Greek agricultural products, regarding the trade dispute between Europe and the United States of America. I should also like to inform you that at the visit of the Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, in China, he mentioned and noted basic products, which we want to identify as products of particular importance for Greece and which we want to promote in the Chinese market - in this huge market - and to be accompanied by local Greek characteristics, as defined by PDO or PGI definitions, namely products of origin or geographical indication products, and to be recognised in Chinese territory. On the other hand, as far as the murder is concerned, you are right about what you said, that unfortunately we received a situation where the inefficiency of the previous administration in the Ministry had caused huge problems in its early and effective implementation, with a peak in 2018 during which the delays in implementation were unprecedented, with dramatic consequences for the olive oil industry and its production in the country. This, although it mobilised the relevant departments of the Ministry, did not have the anticipated effect. Unfortunately, their ineffectiveness has reached such a point that the competitive procedures for supplying these substances, for attractive substances and insecticides to be implemented with significant delay, as a result of which we are talking - even now - of receiving these medicines from local DMGs, when the period is actually closed. In addition, I should like to point out that the number of geopsies and regional authorities has not increased as it should have been, to the extent that they should have been, while in some areas the sprays provided for in the programme were less than those actually required. So, Mr President, we have set ourselves the sole objective of dealing with these so that in the next few years we do not live what we have experienced the previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, too. We continue with the second, with number 181/5-11-2019, a topical question by Hercules MEP of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Employment of retired seafarers at the Academy of Merchant Navy". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. A problem of 2016 at the Commercial Navy Schools with the reluctance of retired masters and engineers to come in for the teaching of corresponding courses at the Schools of the Commercial Navy. This reluctance has specific causes and in 2016 and this year. In 2016, the Katorugalou law was passed, which provides for the well-known reduction of 60% of pensions, since you are undertaking a service in general and indiscriminately. And while some solution was then supposed to have been given, and these people continued to do so, and all these years schools worked with teachers of retired masters and engineers, this year returned the problem for two reasons: The first is that, despite the then document of the Deputy Minister Petersburg, he came to ask retrospectively for all contributions to the teachers and retired masters and the Ministry when the issue was raised, he lifted his hands and said "Catrugalos, SYRIZA", "law of Katrugalos, Michaelides". In fact, the Undersecretary, which makes us the honor of being here today, said in a statement, "If Mr. Michaelides disagrees with the Katorugalo for AEN, let him not be voted on." I conclude, Minister, and I say to you: If Mr Metarakis - he will tell us today - he considers that he has been voted on by the citizens to implement the Katorugalos Act, he is mistakenly mistaken. You voted, Minister, to change him. And, indeed, be consistent with what you did well in 2016 and badly today. Answer us, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much. In your timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course the Mitsotakis Government will change the Katrugalou law. And, indeed, this matter has come back because it has never been resolved properly. Let's put the facts in the conversation. Act No.4387/2016, known as Katrugalou. With Article 20(1), it says that any pensioner who continues to work, his pension is reduced by 60% for the years for which he has returned to the labour market. There is also a second, more specific provision for workers in general government bodies who are talking about a complete suspension of pension rights. So that's what the Karugalu law says. This law did not grant the right of the Minister of Labour or State Secretary to judge on a case-by-case basis and to grant exemptions where these are necessary, for example, in a more general public interest. For our Government, the functioning of the AEN, the public maritime education that supports Greek shipping, is a reason for national interest. What happened in 2016? A letter - not even a circular - of the then State Secretary for Labour and Social Security to the Ministry of Shipping in the Office of the Secretary-General, which reads as follows: 'From a grammar and final interpretation of the above provision, it appears that this does not apply to cases of full-time employment, which, by nature, cannot be regarded as a reintegration into the labour market'. Mr. Kegeroglu, a professor teaching six hours a day, five days a week for five years is covered by this letter from Mr. Petropoulos? A teacher who is today at an AEN who has been assigned thirty hours of teaching a week and has been doing well and teaching - I am positive that people who have such deep knowledge of shipping have returned and taught the new generation - are covered by this letter from Mr. Peters? Is that the solution that SYRIZA gave? Nor was it an amendment, nor a ministerial decision, which has made an amendment, giving the Minister the right to resolve it. So this letter, as interpreted by lawyers, does not cover someone who has taught, for example, for a second semester or teaches more than an hour a week or teaches for a second year. Because employment is no longer fully opportune, which cannot be regarded as a reintegration into the labour market. But even if it were, the Katrugalu law did not give the then State Secretary the right to solve the problem. The SYRIZA government put it under the rug the problem. Now, the Ministry of Shipping with the Ministry of Labour will bring a special amendment next week, so that the current academic years can continue in ACs, retrospectively from 1-1-2017, so that the pensioners who trusted the letters of the previous government are not at risk of return. And from there on, we need to find the Ministry of Shipping in cooperation with us, a permanent and definitive solution to support public maritime education.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you well said about the previous ones, that exactly the Katorugalou law with the horizontal ban created huge problems in this matter and in other cases, however, the provision of services and work. If there were any interest in the unemployed, who did not have the pensioner's status, to offer work, you can be sure I wouldn't ask the question. However, we have the case that others can't do the lesson, except retired masters. That's for granted. And that's why we're saying it needs to be solved. So, as you rightly said, without authorisation, Mr Petropoulos wrote a document. Double-personality, double-book. As you wish, say it. With the institutions it was well with the Katorugalou law and with the world it went well with the informal document, which had no law or regulation or act. No power. Wish. But you also have a responsibility, Mr Mitaraki, because at that time the Hirots said that we had solved the problem, while it was not solved, but it was hidden under the carpet. We're coming right now, when he revived the problem, asking for the money back. And what do you come and do, Mr. Metarakis, you? You come and write a document on 7-10-2019, which tells them that the wish of Petropoulos does not apply to cut pensions, so you have to pay them. In fact, he argued today that it is not an opportune job. So on the basis of the circular that Mr. Metarakis invoked, he says you're going to pay. So he sends this officially to the FBI and says to them "you will apply the circular 12151 of 19 March 2018", that is, SYRIZA. She's the one you'll be applying, she says. So it tells them "cut pensions" and they can't teach, as employment is too long without this cut. That's what you said, Mr. Metarakis. After this document you raised the world, because you yourself had asked a question on 10-10-2016 and said: "What action will you take, Minister, in order to satisfy the universal request to amend Law4387/2016 so as to exclude pensioners from the Naval Abstract Fund who are employed as teachers in AEN? What are you gonna do? When will you bring it? And what are you going to do with the retrospectives?" The question is addressed to you. So you addressed it in 2016 and it's November, after four months you took over. And because the problem was created, we remind you of the question. Now you're gonna do something. Are you quiet with this document you had done on 7 October 2019? We won't leave you alone. The mess that SYRIZA did is still going on in many areas. The communication storm that created gold dust is slowly falling and it seems that you are neither ready nor initiatives are being taken to solve accumulated problems. So you will be bringing an amendment in the next few days to resolve this issue. And retrospectively, you will not seek these things here that will be charged to people, because you too have a responsibility, as a New Democracy, which you said "yes, a solution" then, when it was not given. It was a double-personality. The paper was invalid. It must be retrospective of the arrangement that you will bring. If you do not bring it, I will bring in regulation - an amendment, but I expect to see by Monday that I have a question here again in the Chamber with the Minister of Commerce - to see if we can finally get you to know. Because one of them's been shooting at each other so far. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor for three minutes strictly, please very much. We've gone a long way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Kegeroglu, you are very experienced and in my protology I have already answered what you have put into your dentistry. But let's get them back in the first place. For the question I tabled in 2016, I am in fact insisting that a legislative solution must be found so that there is no problem with AEN. That's what I said, you read it right. You read from my question as to whether the Katorugalou law will be amended. And what did SYRIZA do? Did he modify the law of Katrugalu? Oh, no. He made a letter, which he didn't notify us, he doesn't have an AD, he doesn't know it by the National Representation, Mr. Kegeroglu. And can I tell you something? Maybe we made a mistake then we all did. We trusted SYRIZA that it solved the problem without reading the circular of SYRIZA, which would be obvious that it had no legal basis. So, first of all, we want to resolve the AEN issue. Secondly, we are bringing an amendment - I have it in front of me, Mr Kegeroglu - which covers 1-1-2017 retrospectively so that there is no question of looking for retrospectives. Here is the amendment. The Ministry's obligation, however, was - because there is also legality - that the Ministry and the ECA could not operate on a letter which does not have a legal basis. The first thing we had to do was to correct the way in which the Secretariat-General operates on this subject. We revoked a letter that had no legal basis, issuing a formal circular, with an ADD, based on the prefecture. We accepted - because you mentioned this before - an interpretation that has been made, that the reduction in pensions for those who work part-time is equivalent to those who work part-time. When we told the AEN, the answer was "they work five days a week". And so the previous part-time coverage - for whom he worked one day, it was reduced by 1/5, 60% - did not cover the AENs, because it is not an opportunity, but a full-time job. So we will come with this amendment. On the subject you raised about the Katrugalu law, a discussion topic is this age-based racism that creates. We are trying and kicking people from the labour market who can and still want to offer. And I think it is important for society, for themselves and for the economy that insurance law is not punishable. 60% has a punitive logic, especially with regard to workers who did not leave retirement because they have chosen it, but have gone to pension because they have reached a certain age limit, for example in the Security Body, the Armed Forces, the seafarers who at some age are at some point leaving the active labour market and still want to offer to society. So in the changes of the Katrugalo Law, a very important point will be to leave the punishing logic of Article 20, because today - I will say it - many pensioners are working on the black market, unfortunately, and that is wrong. So there must be legislation which is not punishable, which gives them the right to access the labour market, to be normally taxed and to offer the national economy. As far as the AEN issue is concerned, I think after today's debate it is a pretext that the matter has been closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u77	Thank you both very much. We go to the first item with number 165/4-11-2019 in the first circle of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP B2' West Sector of Athens, the Radical Left Coalition, Dimitrios Vitsa, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Location of the State Secretary of National Defence Alkiviadis Stefani at the place of a special coordinator for the movement of asylum seekers from the islands". Mr. Vitsa, you're Vice President, you know what position I'm in. Please very strictly in two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u78	Don't run the time for a minute. I do not understand: at the plenary sitting after the end of parliamentary scrutiny, there is no other sitting or compulsory attendance in the next half hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u79	We have the event with the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u80	I don't understand why they're pushing you. Make your debt exemplary. You don't have to be pushed and stressful to Mr. Metarakis, who looks at me and smiles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u83	To be honest with you, I'm not running time. Should have gone for the next question, but you're both out of 9:00 and I don't want to do it. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u84	Minister, I believe that the participation of the Ministry of National Defence in the effective management of refugee - immigration was and is catalytic. The involvement of the Armed Forces in the creation of reception centres and hosting centres in feeding, care etc. It has resolved in a decisive way quickly, but not manually, problems that seem to be unthinkable. But you yourself, either as Commander of the Third Army Corps or as Chief of the General Military Staff, played, among other members of the Armed Forces, an important role, in an exemplary way. At the same time as August I pointed out that, due to the ideological delay, the only immediate solution for the decongestion of the islands is the transfer of thousands of asylum seekers to hotels and other accommodations in the mainland. This, of course, does not solve the problems in the field of refugees - immigration - nor does it lead to more general solutions, which need international initiatives and solidarity, but - let us say it popular - the current government is buying time. On 23 October, however, I hear, as everyone has been informed by a statement from the Prime Minister's Press Office, that you have the place of special coordinator for the movement of asylum seekers from the islands. I am aware of your statement from Lesvos on 25 October, if I am not mistaken, which says: "There is nothing to change in the involvement of the Armed Forces in the refugee situation. It's just that a person who knows the refugee gets a special coordinator." If what you're saying happens, why did the announcement become? As we do what we always do. The first question, then, is what exactly are you going to do? What responsibility do you have? Will you decide how many and who will come and what hotel will they settle in? Plan a. Will you decide where to set up hosting centres and be open type or closed type? Plan b. Will you transfer asylum seekers or are you responsible for planning? Are you responsible for all this? The second question is: if the Ministry of Defence takes over coordination, what exactly does the Ministry of Civil Protection undertake? Asylum and international relations? I would like to remind you that the last law involves the Armed Forces in examining asylum claims. The Navy is added to the port patrols and, if so, what commands? I hope not. Please answer me as specifically as possible if you can. Of course, I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr Alkiviadis Stefanis, will answer. Mr. Stefani, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, thank you. Good morning, Minister. Thank you very much for the question. You give me the opportunity to clear up a few things that we have been working on in the last few years. Firstly - I say clearly and unequivocally - my position by the Prime Minister as coordinator with the mission you described clearly aims to implement the already approved action plan. So I come to coordinate with the relevant ministers all this work, between the relevant departments and the bodies, so as to optimise procedures and times. The level of cooperation so far is excellent. Everyone with faith in their mission is doing their job in the best possible way. You described that, too. I can confirm from my new position that it is done in the best possible way. I answer very briefly and unequivocally to the second part of your question. As regards the role and assistance of the Armed Forces, we are following the institutional framework that has been decided on. Four are our roles in assisting immigration. You know them very well: accommodation, transportation, feeding and healthcare. That's what we're still doing. We know that and we do so with absolute commitment, so that we can enable the government's plan to be implemented. That's my simple answer, Mr. Vitsa. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, too. Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased, Minister, that you are willing to cooperate with the other ministers. Mr. Chrysochoidis said yesterday that things on the islands were out of control. "Cooperation" and "non-control" are not going very much together, but let's get into this. It is true, Minister, that in the last four months the New Democracy Government has learned things. He realized that the refugees were not brought by SYRIZA, not brought by Mrs Christodoulopoulos, by Muzalas or by me. They are being brought by wars, anti-democratic regimes, poverty beyond any limit, the climate crisis. It shows that the issue is international and European, and the solidarity of all European states needs to be seen in practice, even under the threat of more general sanctions. We cannot accept that the countries of Visegrad can refuse their obligations and trample human rights unpunished. These governments are threatening European cohesion. At the same time, however, when the government makes its thoughts and rhetoric a step forward, at the same time New Democracy MPs and officials remember their months ago and take many steps back. What can I say about the asylum law, which in many articles is at the bottom of legality and several articles flirt with the limit of international illegality. What can I say about statements that want to grapple right-wing ears, even hold a golden vote. Minister, on the account of invaders and so-called islamism, fascists and racists, they are trying to bring back and mislead our people. We have a few dozen reactents in various cities with a long history of refugee and solidarity that will make it difficult or difficult for your work. Now, of course, we have also recently had the 'united pork breasts' in Diavata and ready-to-be mass media willing to show them. I am sure the democratic world will isolate them, resist and punish them. But the government must go ahead with its thoughts and tell you the truth - and I tell you it - about the work you have said to me that you are undertaking. Refugees and immigrants are not the invaders, nor do they want to damage anything, and the government must say so. They're the intimidators of this Earth. We need protection and solidarity and those who have the right to international protection, to take it and those who do not have it, to be legally returned. Refugees and immigrants do not threaten public health. Refugees and immigrants do not raise crime. Their children must go to school, be vaccinated, feel security and affection - it is a matter of honour for the Greek Police to arrest the wretched little children and tell him not to go back to school again - and when those who return home or go to another country, have the image of a Greece of solidarity, justice and humanity. And if someone brings me an example, to think that what I stand for is the rule and the example is the exception that confirms the rule. I am saying this because you have undertaken a very heavy task. I do not know whether this means a more general overthrow in the government's process, but I do not care, I am concerned about efficiency. You take on a multi-project. But they must stand alongside you and local communities and not be misled by xenophobic and racist rhetoric. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too. Mr. Stefani, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin, Mr Vitsa, from what you described at the outset by saying that cooperation and the situation, as described, do not go hand in hand. I would like to refer to this. Cooperation: Is there cooperation? Of course there is. How does the co-operation get pictured? With our effectiveness. How does our effectiveness reflect? We have a plan that we are implementing. Already in the week a thousand hundred and ninety - three people were taken. Already in the week we are still in a plan, which we are using very hard, to implement. But I come to the second part of your initial statement, the situation out of control. With regard to the out-of-control situation, I would like to mention some of the facts presented by the Government representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u91	I didn't say that. Chrysochoid said so. Don't put it in my mouth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u92	No, Mr. Vitsa. I say, however, that you started your introduction. I want to show why Mr Chrysochoidis said so. There are currently sixty-eight thousand pending asylum applications. There are fourteen thousand appeals to the claim service in question and there is a two and a half-year procedure to be set out on the same footing. In the four years that passed, we had a thousand eight hundred and six people who returned. So we understand that it is indeed a situation that we have to deal with. We manage it seriously and fully in the draft which has been drawn up and with excellent cooperation. With regard to the results, I will repeat what the Prime Minister, which is my own personal view, I believe: We are not talking, we are letting our projects speak and our projects are speaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too. Thank you both. Have a good time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-five students and students and three teachers from Xenopoul High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The first, with number 166/4-11-2019, topical question for the second cycle of MP I Piraeus, of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodourou Dricas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The abolition of the Single Administrative Sector (EDF) of the Ministry of Defence" will not be discussed after consultation of the Minister with the MP. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-07-S1-commons.u94	With the consent of the House at 10.51 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 8 November 2019 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
