ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Parliament's decisions: debate and decision on proposals for revision of provisions of the Constitution, in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Yesterday they spoke, in the process that we agreed in plenary, together with the rapporteurs, speakers and three ministers, who spoke equally with the Members, eighty-four colleagues and colleagues. There are forty-nine left to speak on the list. In other words, we will go near the hundreds of thirty-thousand forty, except for the heads of the parties and the parliamentary representatives. So, today, it will be a process which will go until late at night, if we want to avoid having talks tomorrow, and to go straight to the vote. There is no series of talks about the parties' leaders. That is, according to them, whenever everyone arrives or if he states he will obviously speak in consultation with the parliamentary representatives as well. I mean, in relation to the time before, to talk to the parliamentarians, about the economy of the process and not about the time. I would also remind you that, after consultation of the rapporteurs, who came here after and told you, the Plenary Assembly, a limit has been set by 12.00 p.m., but not by 13.00 p.m., please, to be tabled on behalf of each party - and I am also speaking of SYRIZA and New Democracy in particular - all of the provisions on labelling for each party, on what are they, in other words, the voting standards - because you realise that there will be a number of pages, we are talking, if I am not mistaken, about a hundred or fifty, articles. - so that the services themselves can vote on this volume of work, the paperwork, - let me express it - so that every Member of the European Parliament can vote on his own in a timely manner when he is called tomorrow at some point - I hope that at 11 a.m. we will have finished the speakers today - by name so that he can table his vote, so that this procedure can be done very quickly. That is not to mention at that time. We all have the paperwork beforehand. These were agreed between the rapporteurs and I think they are in the right direction. Before we begin the list of speakers, we have the following question, which the House has decided yesterday on. Yesterday in the course of the procedure complaints were raised, objections, opinions, points of view, has been raised by the House, by the plenary - and that is why there will be no primary discussion on this - whether a binding approach should be formulated to the provisions under review and the essential issue, namely whether this House has a binding decision on the direction of the articles in relation to the next House. In this respect, there has been a production, I would say, of intense debate on each and every argument. I think that, in the Rules of Procedure, but also in the practice that we are following, and in the need in this topical process for the views to be heard, we now have to give the floor from five minutes to all the parties' representatives, so that the opinion on this issue can be formulated and, if necessary, - it is most likely that it will be necessary - to have a Parliament decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u2	On a scientific matter, will there be a resolution of the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u3	Mr Javarra, we have said yesterday that this procedure will take place on this subject. Whether it is scientific and how - obviously it is scientific, as is the entire constitutional procedure - it will be an element in the arguments of those who speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u4	Let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u5	No, this is not a preliminary debate. This is embedded in the debate we are going to have. I would ask the parties' representatives, one of each party, to take the floor. I say this directly - I would also like to hear from Mr Venizelos, who first put the intervention yesterday. It doesn't, I think, spoil this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u6	He put an incidental question and didn't we get it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u7	As a matter of fact, we have said that we will look into it as an incident. It's no different.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u8	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u9	Yesterday we said so by a plenary decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, can I have the floor, please, on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u11	Mr Javarra, of course you have the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. On the basis of Rule 67 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which lays down what is the case with regard to matters which are intervening, the intervening issue should be relied upon, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 67 with paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 either two Members, either one thirty-fifth of Members or a party president or a parliamentary representative. Who's invoked it, first? Who's described it, second? In particular, what provision of the Rules of Procedure relies on? Because, as we know, this is an incident which arises under the parliamentary procedure, which, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, affects or prevents discussion or decision-making on a particular subject. Here, then, we must first, at a preliminary stage to resolve these issues, see whether a scientific issue, which has divided science and where there are opinions on one side and on the other, is an incident and on the basis of which provision of the Rules of Procedure. And from there on, indeed, to say. Mr President, I am warning that there is something that will characterise and stigmatize this House if we continue along this path of procedure. We will come to the point of deciding on a scientific subject which has been subject to scientific debate since 1993. And will the House come with its decision to tell us which of the two scientific views is true? That is, in other words, to raise the issue, whether there is or is not God, and finally to decide in favour of one or the other on the principle of majority voting. I sincerely want to protect the authority of the House. But above all, these methods must be avoided. I would point out that, with this decision, we will commit a next parliament, which will have been formed from elections, where the Greek people will determine the issues as they should and as the provisions of Article 110 of the Constitution apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much. You have found the opportunity to put you on the ground on this issue. Let me tell you that from what you said that an issue affecting the debate itself and its outcome is clear that it is entering this process, as was, if necessary, unanimously or less yesterday, we decided, after the issues had been raised by Mr Loverdos in principle. And I will start from Mr Loverdos on this matter. I'd beg for five minutes on behalf of the party...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u14	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Loverdo, I'm not opening a preliminary question. This has been resolved yesterday morning in the House with the objections, the tolerances of everyone. On the substance, Mr Javarras has also been mentioned. Do you want to start with you? And I said that with my personal responsibility, President Venizelos will also speak on this matter. I would ask that the other Members, who will speak for five minutes, should also be prepared to do so. Perhaps it will be necessary, then - perhaps I say - to make a statement on this matter. There is no other way to do what comes to plenary, there is no Chamber of Appeal. We know that. So move quietly and calmly. I say to you that yesterday's debate, with eighty-three colleagues, was largely consumed in this matter, which appears to be very important. He's enriched the process. There is no question from the outset. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I have warned twice at the Conference of Presidents that this issue has been very concerned with the Constitutional Review Committee, that is, the direction of this House in the next. I therefore said that it would make it very easier for us to discuss this at some point by the way, not as an incidental matter, in the typical sense that Mr Javarras puts it, but as Mr Venizelos said, by taking an intervening debate, so that we do not get into trouble at night or tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u17	That's what this is about. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u18	That's right. So there is one issue that we are discussing, ladies and gentlemen, if this House, the House proposed, can commit to the next one, which is also a revised House. It would simply be a theoretical matter if it were not involved in judicial review. In other words, with control over the review procedure, which can be carried out by the Supreme Special Court or by the Council of State, retrospectively. The House's distinction to a suggestor, this, and to a review, the next, is a distinction that has been made in science. I invoke here the late Demetrius Chachos, who in this particular book has made the relevant reference. The question, which was raised and whether Mr Venizelos will comment on, is whether the theory in the past has dealt with this or whether he has not dealt with it. Indeed, he has been dealing with it for about a century. And what are her findings? That this House commits the next to articles, especially in terms of provisions, which suggests that they should be reviewed, but from there on does not dictate the revision to it. In that sense, the guidelines have nothing to do with them. Hence, the practice it has shown so far. I am referring to the relocation. Both in the 1985-1986 Review and in that of 2001 and in the last of 2008 the Constitutional Review Committees commented on their proposals, in a few words, and the plenary were sufficient, as you will see from the relevant lists, which may be distributed to you, to give the title of the issue, which was regulated by the revised provision. This simple matter has made it a complex and complex case-law, for example, of two judgments: the Supreme Special Court and the Council of State, which accepted as an admissible request, which was referred to in the Review Procedure, but then, in substance, rejected the allegations made by two specific parties. This leads us to think that if the courts went ahead and said that there were anti-constitutional provisions in this regard, they would be able to decide that there are anti-constitutional provisions within the Constitution itself, which at least in the Greek theory has been rejected for many decades. Because if this were to be accepted, ladies and gentlemen, the internal cohesion of the Constitution would be broken and a new distinction would be made between constitutional provisions, which are constitutional and those which are not. So, you realize what a crack that would be in our constitutional legal order. This kind of approach has been rejected, and it is not appropriate to bring it back here in the famous directions which, in essence, this House is asking to commit the next one, dictating the solutions to be given. I'm hanging up with something more political. The political issue, ladies and gentlemen, is as follows: we are at the last session of this House. Our claims, like many others, are that at its last session the majority that emerged clearly in 2015 is weaker or, if you want, as I believe it, is weak. The democratic legitimacy here in a substantial way, not obviously from a formal point of view, has cracks, has problems. What does the Constitution require in Article 110? It requires that the Review be made by the next House at its first session, that is to say that democratic legitimacy will be fresh, that it will be strong, that there will be no cause for disharmony. So if we go into the field of political arguments too, can we here think of the next House, which 40% will be other people from us, will they be new Members who will have a proposal for a revision from this House, consider that we have dictated them the provisions that will be laid down in our new constitution? I think this debate has been over since it began. The arguments are exhausted, and the majority should not, taking advantage of the current circumstances of the composition of the House, go through something which, if decided, Mr Javara, would create an exception, without any practical significance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Katrugalos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, first of all, we must clarify what we are talking about and distinguish the direction of Review from the contents to which the next Review House will give specific provisions. What do we mean when we say direction? First of all, we want to establish the need, as laid down in Article 110, to change a provision, which is why this must be done and, secondly, to adapt the regulation. To give an example, in the Review of ‘85 the crucial issue was the responsibilities of the President of the Republic and the direction was that they should be reduced. From there on, in the context of this direction given by the first Parliament, the second Parliament could indeed specialise how many responsibilities they would have to be limited. What could he not do? To increase responsibilities, i.e. to turn in another direction opposite to the one which has been specific since the first. Is that a new view? As I will show below, it is the view that is always followed in all revisions so far. The direction is therefore two things: justification and orientation, as a limit to the review. How special will the direction be? It depends on the proposaler, on the parliamentary group and on the specialisation that the first House will give. There is no doubt that all the previous revisions have been accepted, at least as a political commitment, and that is the wording of the lists, at least in the last one, which has been explicitly reflected in this practice. We see - and I shall be tabling a copy of the report - that the two major parties, who were able to table a proposal elsewhere, do not specify in detail, say, for example, 'humanist, social and democratic awareness as a purpose of education', but elsewhere have a clearer direction, 'closure of proselytism', 'guarantee a minimum guaranteed level of living'. They referred to the theory and, indeed, I saw yesterday by the New Democracy colleagues in appealing seven constitutional colleagues. I've brought the writings two of them. In fact, one, Peter Paraaras, was the one who primarily raised the question of the commitment of the second House from the first. Mr. Pararess is overhearing. It says that it is not only the direction but also the content. I'll testify for that, too. I'm just reading two small fragments. "The second House is also committed to the contents of the proposals... On the contrary, the burden of the Review falls exclusively in the second House, namely in a single Parliament, which is outside the stated philosophy of Article 110, so the question arises, what does the dual parliament system need?' What I read before was 1993. The other, Mr. Kontiadis, says: "On the contrary, the new view suggests that the two Bulgarians participate on an equal footing in the review process and agree to the content of the review." It goes without saying - I mean prophetically in view of the foreign attitude of today's New Democracy - that if it is accepted that the second House is unblocked, this contains the danger, not only of not following the direction of the first Parliament, but of not even its election announcements on the subject of the revision, in view of the parties. So from the seven you say that they support your views, the two and the most importantly Mr. Pararas, because Mr. Kontiadis has then published other opinions, they are clear to what I say and, after all, Mr. Athanasios supported it. I'll testify and be at your disposal. The theory is not the decisive in this respect. Who are our two main drivers? The practice of the revisions so far which I have been trying to prove is a constant political commitment, at least as a political commitment, and the judicial crises of the AEO and the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State. So let us accept, gentlemen, that the theory is divided and I shall refer only to a phrase as to what the current opinion is. Professor Papadopoulou - I will table this text as well - says that today, rather, the view is that the second House should be committed. Why am I talking about it, apart from the other studies, which I am going to refer to? Because this honourable Member is'super suspicion' that she is politically close to us since she was a candidate for PASOK. And I will testify to Professor Giannakopoulos, who is the chief defender of the opinion I am defending, with references to ten constitutionalists who have this view. I conclude with the following to speak specifically. For Article 32. What is the important direction? One point to which we agree, that the resolution of the House should be removed, and a second to which we do not agree. We want a wider consensus on the election of the President of the Republic, and you say that there should be one hundred and fifty votes. That's critical. It is against what you are asking for in the regulatory role of the President of the Republic, it is against the general effort that we must have consents to the review process and to political life. And because you combine this with a political argument, I have seen it in your friendly press, that it is a trophy that you have entangled us and that you have neutralized what we wanted to do if you have the majority, to become 'right-wing parentheses', forget, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that the Prime Minister has declared that he will support the re-election of the current President of the Republic in this post? Just because we think we're gonna be a majority, we ask you for a consensus, not the other way around. [[Noise in the Chamber from the New Democracy Wing]] My last sentence is this: I have asked you on several occasions for debates to be held with institutional openness. In 2014, when the proposal for revision was tabled by the best constitutionalist you had at that time as a Member and now President of the Republic, it was included in your proposal, not only in your direction, but in full the content of the provisions to be revised, precisely because it was acceptable at the time that I spoke to you now, that no one could understand that others would say the first House, but that the second one would say, it was something that could be debated seriously, politically or scientificly. In order not to get to the fact that what you're doing now is even worse. You expressly state that you will vote for a proposal that you do not agree with. It does not have to be a constitutionalist to judge that this is nothing serious. I'm tabling all the above.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u21	Good. Thank you. Mr. Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u22	We also discussed this issue in committee. We shall say exactly the same that this debate on whether or not the direction of the articles and provisions put forward for review is binding on it has no practical value, no practical effect. Theoretically, it may have a scientific interest, but in the end, it is a political matter and it is a matter of political relevance, because whether we like it or not we like it or we do not want it, the final reason for the next, the Revision House has it. And there is no practical way, there is no practical means of ensuring this commitment. That is why we say again that it is a matter of political and political correlation. This has also happened in the previous constitutional revisions, and that is why we as a JRC and other parties, and SYRIZA, said that we should not, in critical constitutional provisions, gather the number of eighty-eight Members in order for the next government, the next parliamentary majority, to have a white cheque, to have its own free and to have its hands undone in order to vote and to revise the provisions as it wants. We said we would hold the same position now. The other parties change their position depending on whether they are in the government or are in the opposition. The party that is in the government, every time it wants to be binding, and the party that is in the opposition, aspiring to become a government, wants to have freedom of movement in order to have discretion in the next House. But let us make a realistic case of work. Let's say that the Constitutional Review was not starting now, it started with the previous parliament. The Samara government, the previous government, started the Constitutional Review and proposed to change a number of articles in a reactionary direction, enter the balanced budgets that New Democracy now says and rejects them, regardless of whether it implements it as a government policy, enter the revision of Article 16 etc. SYRIZA now came as a parliamentary majority to manage the Review, the final phase of the Review. What would he say? Do I commit to the revision of Article 16 in the direction of establishing private universities? Or is I bound by the direction of the Review for the constitutionalisation of the balanced budgets? Of course not. Mr Katrugalos would argue about the return, and the New Democracy would again argue about the return, would argue about the bindingity. So, bad lies. This is where we're talking...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Gioka, allow me a break, to tell you what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Catrugale, I have not interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u25	If I may, just a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Catrugale, please. To develop the debate. In the end, you'll talk. Say one sentence so that time doesn't get lost. You'll only take the floor if Mr. Giokas allows.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u27	I'd rather not, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Catrugale, you'll get the floor later. Go on, Mr. Giola.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u29	So, here we are talking about a debate, which has evidence of hypocrisy, has micro-party purposes. We all understand that, in particular, it concerns the revision of Article 32 of the Constitution, where you both agree that the election of the President of the Republic should be disconnected from election, and indeed, SYRIZA in total contrast with what he said and did in 2014. Just one, New Democracy, says election with a hundred and fifty-one votes, SYRIZA says election by the people, which is a deeply reactionary position, because it strengthens a single-faced body. It is no coincidence that Golden Dawn also defends this position. We have clearly said that we disagree and say so, Mr President, because there has been a mistake in the committee's report. We therefore regard this controversy as hypocritical. We are not going to take part in any vote on this issue, which, in fact, can be repeated in a next House, to decide exactly the backwards, that there is no binding. So we're clearing our position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u30	You were clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, may I have the floor for a clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u32	Mr Katrugale, you have the floor to explain, but not more than twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, for thirty seconds. When we say that the direction is binding on the next House, we mean that the Review will be carried out in accordance with that direction or not. It is clear that the first cannot be bound by the second, if there is a contrary majority. That's exactly the point of the Constitution. He wants the consent to have a duration and cover two Boulevards and to be confirmed by the electorate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u34	Mr Javarras has the floor and Mr Pappas follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u35	Since the next House, if it is opposition, will be a minority, how can it play this role? He won't be able to have any say in the Review. Only the government has the initiative. What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u36	Sophon, that's clear! Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, we do agree, namely to begin with what we agree, that there is no incidental issue and that it is very clear...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u38	Intervening debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u39	...an intervening conversation. Therefore, after we have had an intervening debate, that is, a debate which does not provide for any provision in the Rules of Procedure, we are having a free debate, where everyone is saying their views on a specific issue. I have listened with great interest and with Mr Katrugalos' views and Mr Gioka's views and Mr Loverdou's views. So you will allow me to begin with the constitutional text, because here we are trying to create certainty invoking views which have been formulated since 2000 and which fuel a scientific debate. I shall therefore begin with the provision of Article 110(2) of the Constitution. It says, therefore, that "The need to revise the Constitution is confirmed by Parliament on the proposal of fifty Members and on the basis of majority voting and debates". We must therefore keep in mind that what this House decides is necessary and nothing else. How the direction comes, how the question of guidance arises, how it comes to the issue of verbal containment and how the issue of bindingity arises, these are issues that have been raised by scientific dialogue. For a political Parliament, such as Parliament, what is important is the application of the provision in Article 110(2), which states how the Constitution is to be reviewed. The Constitution is reviewed by two Bulgarians, where the constitutional legislature in these two Bulgarians has, in a very clear way, divided the review project and indeed, to such an extent that the first Parliament, that is, the one which is holding this debate, has an accreditation competence of the need and, in its decision, has to determine the last subparagraph of paragraph 2, says, the last subparagraph of paragraph 2, ‘the revised provisions’. In fact, it uses the word'specify specifically'. A special provision shall mean that the number referred to in Article, paragraph and subparagraph should be indicated. That is why, to date, all the decisions adopted by the previous Vultures, which have either succeeded or remained incomplete, have figures in their operative part, because the number of the article, paragraph and subparagraph is the most specific definition of the provision. Now let's go see what the next House will do with paragraph 3. Paragraph 2: "Revision is decided by this House and the next Parliament will decide on the revision", that is, whatever has to do with the procedure, beyond finding the need for the revision, is the responsibility of the constitutional legislator to assign it to the next Parliament. Of course, this is not an accident and it does not do so without any specific purpose. Because among the two Bulgarians the election of a new, the verdict of the people will come and, of course, having in mind each citizen that the next Parliament aims to revise the Constitution, give and strengthen the democratic legitimacy of this House in terms of completing the reform process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, here's a matter. This House was not elected as a candidate and nor in the declaration of the elections there was something, for which we should all have had our attention, that the revision of the Constitution will begin. This revision begins in a random manner, if the will of fifty Members is supplemented. The other House, however, next, is by definition a review parliament and, of course, the purpose for which, among other things, is the revision of the Constitution. In this respect, therefore, I come to the first conclusion. We have two Vultures with distinct roles and specific competence, which is defined by the Constitution. Where are the directions, verbal limitations and the binding commitments of the next House from today's House now? Indeed, the whole theory of Constitutional Law by the year 2000 was unanimous, that the Review House, in a way that is not free from the previous Parliament, decides to revise the Constitution. For the first time the subject was raised by Mr Parararas, who, in fact, raised the matter and said, because in 1993 this scientific dialogue had been fuelled...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u40	Be quiet, please, to listen to Mr. Javarra, who will be shortened. Right, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u41	Sure. The following topic was created: Because the Parliament of ‘93 before dissolving was in the nature of the revision and because the next Parliament was sure that it would not consist of the majority of the previous one, there the question was raised for the first time whether the next Parliament could use the provisions of the articles, which were set as revised, to give different content to the review project. So the opinion of Mr Paraaras came up, where for the first time a distinction has been made between guidance and direction and the need for revision. However, this distinction does not correspond to the constitutional text, and I think it is arbitrary, all the more so because there are two decisions which you will allow me to refer to. The first is a decision, which created the issue and is the decision of the Supreme Special Court of Justice 11 of 2003, where for the first time the question of judicial review has been raised. Indeed, that court accepts that, yes, there is a matter of judicial review of the review procedure, the subject matter of which may be exceeded the limits of the order given by the House in the revision. And here, however, there is one question: What provision does the Constitution show that there is an order between the two Vultures?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u42	Did the Supreme Special Court say so?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u43	What does it matter if he said it? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u44	Please don't make any verbal controversy. You're closing, Mr. Javarra, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u45	I'm done. And I'll tell you right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u46	No, you'll tell him in private. After all, you were talking about sixteen meetings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u47	I was interrupted, Mr President, and my colleague asked a question. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u48	You did it to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u49	So I'm going to answer why there can't be an order. Because if there were a mandate, then the mandated parliament would be at a lesser degree of serious prestige than the first parliament which is the proposer, even though the project of the proposal is far less important than the project of revision. So imagine, this House, which has had much more serious work than the proposal of the House today, had the greatest commitment to that House, which had to do the relatively insignificant work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u50	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u51	Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u52	What's your request? Have you spoken and...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u53	You, gentlemen, understand all this. You will vote in a moment on these matters. So watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u54	Mr Javarra, do not address the Members. You're very experienced. It's not right. Finish it, please. There's a matter of parity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u55	I'm done. If you do not want to hear me, and if at last this intervening debate you have only made it so that SYRIZA's views can be heard, I will stop, Mr President. But since, as I said, this intervening debate is a free debate, because it does not provide for any provision in the Rules of Procedure, I must be able to conclude. I now come to the second decision, which is Decision 2512 of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u56	Look, if you're gonna make a 15-minute speech, I won't give you that possibility. You do not have this permission from the Bureau, I tell you right. In a minute, if you want, you'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u57	I'm done. So, in this decision, there is the completely different approach, because that is where it is said that the House is not bound by the proposaler, because what the proposer is doing is to make a proposal, which does not commit the revision. And I ask: How can it be proposed to identify and define the provision and not to be a proposal and the content, direction or orientation? For the same reason, therefore, that the first issue has been rejected, for the same reason, I believe, is not bound by the House of Reform either by the direction or by the verbal constraint or by the direction, which may, as a matter of urgency, be put to the decision of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, since they have previously participated in the educational program "Rigas and Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, seventeen students and students and two teachers from the 5th Old Faliro Municipal School. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I will be briefer. After we have come up with an in-depth procedure, until Mr. Javarras has finished, and after he has finished, I take the floor. I quote, because things have been heard here on behalf of the JRC, unexplained and false, such as in the context of the mudology, which said that the Golden Dawn has the same position as the SYRIZA as the President of the Republic, for Article 32, which is for review, I say that SYRIZA has a proposal, which provides for recourse to the Greek people, after six - if I do not deceive - elections within Parliament. It is clearly opposite and shows, of course, the tactics of the JRC - which are similar to the tactics of the New Democracy - of mudology, namely, that the Golden Dawn is supposedly associated with SYRIZA and so on. In no case. We say that - and we said it yesterday in our report and in the committee's procedures - the election of the President of the Republic must be carried out directly by the Greek people alone. The Greek people are the sovereign, more than their representatives within Parliament. The electorate is worth more than three hundred. And this President, who will come from the Greek people, will be a president who will unite the Greeks. And because it has been heard that, possibly, Mr Pavlos and others will again be, I am passing it, because if he entered this process, that is, the election procedure by the people, he would certainly not find his vote. I would like to say again that before the opening of the procedure, Mr President - I am not saying this to you, I am not blaming you, but I am saying this for people to know - there has been a well of understanding between the rapporteurs of this sitting, this plenary, there has been a well, I would say, of the so-called politically sinful 'democratic arch', without us calling. I am not complaining about the fact that we were not called yesterday on to consult on how to hold the vote. But I stress it to say that we are outside your own procedures. It's not bad that there's a civil courtesy and that you're talking to each other anyway. From civil courtesy, however, to osmosis, Ilysveriques and transcriptions, which are done here by opaque procedures in order to create a wide political majority, there is a difference and we are out. And we're proud to be out of your process. In the case at issue, that is to say, Article 32 - let us not be fooled, as this is why all the debate is taking place - I will not be invoking scientific theories. I will not plead or speak, as some other speakers have spoken as if they were in a university amphitheater. Because Mr. Javarras said "I want to protect the House", I say that the House is the institution, which legislates and I would say it is above scientific conferences and scientific writings. How can the House be responsible - in other words, you and the majority - for the fate of the country, with the memorials, with the laws that are being passed here, with the opaque procedures, with all that is done, for the lives of the Greeks and for the crucial question, for Article 32, is not responsible? Protect the House, listen to the scientists. Mr President, because between the two Bulgarians - the proposed one and the next one, which will have to deal with the issue of constitutional reform - there will have been a pre-election process, the will of the people has taken precedence, I believe the debate is in vain. Certainly, the proposed constitutional review will not come about in the next Parliament, because the next Parliament will not have the government majority, not the three-fifths majority, i.e. eighty-eight. Besides, because there is this political scenario, which is evident and I will say it, if everything shows that the New Democracy and SYRIZA is in some way in order to protect the acquis communautaire. You don't differ in much. You yourself are, together you are voting for the memorials and anti-racist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u60	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I have said that I will be briefer than Mr Javarra. Give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u62	I'm not pushing you. I'm just urging you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u63	I would like to say, therefore, that we, not only do we not believe that tomorrow's vote and today's House are binding on the next House, but we do not believe that the articles, which have to do with the faith of the Greek people, should not even be discussed, and I mean Article 3, which is about the Greek Orthodoxy, which is the faith in Christianity. It is not the House, that is, the legislative authority responsible for defining such important things. Mr. Mitsotakis - and I am closing with this, Mr. President - has done this unholy: he has put in the same balance the two thousand-year history of our Orthodox Church with the various “college”, the various “London University” etc. and said that 'if you vote for foreign universities and free education, I also vote for Article 3'. So because it is the liberals who are deeply ideologically against osmosis and are in favour of the separation of State-Church, I say that fortunately, what is to be done with the possible revision will not be done. Hands off our Orthodoxy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u64	Thank you. Let me do this: I will give the floor to three speakers, to Mr Venizelos, as I said, Mr Tasoula from New Democracy, who called for it as a special rapporteur and to Mr Paradise and to close a rich debate which we had as an intervening procedure. There are no objections to discrimination. Unless someone else, for example from the JRC, would like to reposition. Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Article 110(2) of the Constitution expressly states that the first Parliament shall decide on the need for the review, specifying in particular the provisions to be revised. There is no reference to the content or direction. This provision of Article 110 of the Constitution, similar to the corresponding provisions of the earlier Greek constitutions, has not emerged at random. There's a huge historical depth. In 1910, a hundred years ago, after the Winter movement the old Parliament, the outgoing Prime Minister, Stephanos Dragoumi, decided, under the pressure of circumstances, to initiate the process of revising the Constitution of 1864. In order to bind the new Parliament, however, of the new system, the new association led by Eleftherios Venizelos, established the directions of the Review, seeking that this outgoing House of the old correlation be bound by preliminarily the new Parliament of the new association. The Vullets, seized in 1911, were two double revised Vultures. There were proverbial positions of the first Minister of Justice of the Venizelos, Nikolaos Dimitrakopoulos and Eleftherios Venizelos, who solved this issue. The second Parliament, the reform, is not bound by the directions of the first, because the electorate is involved, because popular sovereignty is expressed. And this was analysed by Nikolaos Saripolos, Professor of Constitutional Law in his writing, which is monumental and which influenced science and interpretation to this day. So we have a historical depth, which is very great and we have a uniform practice. Literally we have had Reviews since 1975. All three Reviews, as has been said, were consciously not defined. The need for a review has just been decided and the revised provisions have been numerically identified under the number referred to in Article number of the paragraph or the subparagraph. This was done in 1986 and 2001, i.e. in 1998 in the first House and in 2008. The final version of this procedure refers to the topics, not the directions. After all, justice also considered that no directions had been laid down. These two decisions you have heard, one of the TAs of the Special Court and one of the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State, wishing to rule on specific cases, have been accepted by procedural procedure that there may be a claim for commitments from the directions, but because there is no decision of the House on direction, there is no judicial review. It would be absurd, legal and pragmatic, to accept that judicial review of constitutionality and the revision process can be carried out. The Constitution provides for judicial review of the constitutionality of the laws, I and the Constitution, only on the contents. It says Article 93(4): ‘the courts are obliged not to apply a law whose content is contrary to the Constitution’. Article 100 for the Supreme Special Court, in paragraph 1, in paragraph 5, says that the Supreme Special Court decides on substantive unconstitutionality, not formality. The internal formal constitutionality, as an element of Parliament's internal autonomy, due to the principle of separation of powers, is not subject to judicial review. Listen to it. If we accept that the first Parliament commits the second, on how the President of the Republic is elected, and is there a disagreement on whether the next Parliament can revise Rule 32 by reducing the majority and not by choosing a direct election, will the constitutionality of the President of the Republic be called into question by the House? In what process? The Council of State has said several times that the Parliament's decision on the election of the President of the Republic is not inadmissible before it. The election is not directly controlled or therefore by the way. Can you imagine having a constitution and a President of questioned constitutionality? Can you imagine that a court could come and say that it is an unconstitutional provision for a simple majority election, so we have no constitution, so the previous Constitution must come back? We are driving the country into an institutional latitude of colossal proportions. That is why the Constitution is wise and excludes the kind of interpretation. After all, everything is judged by the democratic principle. What does the electorate mean? It means that we have a disagreement on the directions, opinions and ideologies. The people are judging. The next House decides. If it were different - pay attention to the next insanity - the first House with a hundred and fifty one votes binds the next House, which can decide in another direction with a hundred and eighty votes, and the electorate has been invaded and has formed a revised majority of eighty votes! Is that ever possible? Such disrespect to the electorate and the increased majority? Take note, of course, of the last paragraph: if there are commitments in the guidelines, consents to the need for revision are blocked, because we agree, let us say, that the provision for the President of the Republic needs to be changed, that his election should be disconnected from the threat of the dismantling of the House. We are voting on this. Why should we have voted for this particular way of choosing disconnected from the dissolution threat? No consensus being formed. On the contrary, constitutional legitimacy for the future is being abused. The practical conclusion, Mr President, to you who are directing the functioning of the House and the debate, is as follows: The debate we are now having is a debate on how to organise the vote. The practical issue is what will be put to the vote. The vote tomorrow must be taken, as Article 110 of the Constitution and Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, by means of an article, paragraph or subparagraph, without referral back to committee. If a majority of Parliament wants to impose another vote procedure, we will not take part in this preliminary vote, because we do not legalise this decision, which would violate Rule 110 of the Constitution and Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. If we are called upon to vote on these figures, we shall vote on them. If our vote is to be interpreted as a vote in the same way, we do not recognise this vote and we do not take part in this vote in the same direction, because this House cannot have taken a decision in the direction, in fact, binding on the next Parliament, by insulting the Greek people, who are intervening and violating Article 110 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Tsoulus has the floor. I would ask you, Mr. Tasoula, to speak for less time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, we are faced with a false problem. There is no question of the House being bound by the nomination. This is the investment that SYRIZA puts into his insecurity policy in order to prevent a smaller or larger revision, in which he cannot participate in the next Parliament, because he will be politically noodles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u68	Quiet, please. There are no reactions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u69	Instead of admitting that the next House will decide on the content of the provisions to be revised, they have invented a new theory of bindingity. Here's what happened in the past. In 1985, the President of the Ioannis Ellioras Parliament set up a committee for the revision of the Constitution - the next House, not this one, for the drafting of the revised provisions. In 2000, Mr. Kaklamanis, President of the Parliament, set up a committee to prepare the content of the revised provisions and in 2008, Dimitrios Sioufas set up a committee to prepare the content of the revised provisions. They did not set up a committee to 'carbon' the provisions that were sent. The word "processing" means shaping. It does not mean 'carbon', as you suggest. Now listen to one more thing. You are in trouble with the legal policy and you are going between politics and law, to justify this monstrous view. Recently, a very interesting article was published by Professor Law of the Free University of Charalambou Anthopoulos. He says on this point: "What matters, from a legal point of view, is that Article 110 of the Constitution wants to be one of the criteria for the election. In this perspective, popular participation in the review process through the intervening elections is potentially one of the most effective manifestations of the right to participate in the political life of the country, in accordance with Article 5 of the Constitution, and in the most correct sense forms part of the democratic and representative culture, in accordance with Article 110(1), and therefore cannot even be reviewed.’ That is the essence of the revision and of the popular contribution to it. You think the Constitution and Constitutional Law, therefore parliamentary law, can impose political developments. The Constitution does not impose political developments. It is difficult or facilitated by political developments. The Constitution, when it speaks of a consensual election of President, did not force it on you in 2014 to do so. It would make it easier for the Constitution, but you want the Constitution and the process here to impose political developments. Political developments will be imposed by the Greek people, who will receive the proposed provisions and decide who will implement them in terms of their content. That's the point. Now, I'd like to say two things to get this over with. Mr Tsipras - and I recommend this to you in harmony with your President - said that his beloved poet is Kavafis and read the poem "Polis". There is also the "Alexandrian Kings". You're like the Alexandrians, soon after, who went to see how Cleopatra and Antony proclaimed the children of Cleopatra kings. And he says: “Alexander, he was called king of Cilicia, Medes and Syria. Ptolemy, called him the king of Phoenix and the Parthenons. Caesar called him King of the Kings. The Alexandrians, the SYRIZA MPs, only knew what words they were and theatres, were running and enthusiastic and cheering, but only they knew what hollow words those kingdoms were." What hollow words are these about binding, you know, but you insist, because you want to hide your political insecurity. The people and the next majority will determine the content of the Review.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. Mr Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u71	I would like to present to the Minutes an extensive study of this issue, published two months ago in the Mannesi Digital Journal, the Constitutionalism.gr. Please, if you have goodness, beyond registration in the Minutes, if the services can, distribute it, if you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u72	To be given to the parliamentary groups by one, two copies and whoever is interested in them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u73	As you think. However, for the sake of documentation and history to be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Here, Mr. Paraskevi, you have the floor. You're the last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me comment on the fact that we still have a very interesting debate in this House pervaded by arguments, but also with some spiritual remarks which are particularly useful. I am going through this, starting with an example and explaining it afterwards. Let us assume - something that is very close to the reality - that this House with more than a hundred and eighty decides to revise Article 86 of the Constitution in the direction of the major control over the criminal accountability of the ministers, which is impossible today. Let's assume it's decided by more than a hundred eighty votes. Can the next House come and review the article so that it can make even more insurmountable the responsibility, the politicians, against any persecution? It's absurd. Neither social nor scientifically can the view that the other Parliament can do whatever it wants, in the absence of the direction of the debates and decisions of this House. I'm going through arguments. First of all, it has been said, as a preliminary argument by colleagues, particularly KINAL, Mr Loverdos and Mr Venizelos, that we cannot control the substance of constitutionality. Of course, if we ended up there, we would have had the unconstitutional arrangements of the Constitution. That is why I would like to say that we have conflicts and conflicts within the Constitution, which must indeed be resolved in the application. We have conflicting regulations, we have a regulation which is in favour of the judicial protection of the citizen and another regulation which introduces probative prohibitions. They're confusing and weightings being made. In all matters, therefore, there can be a constitutional debate and an implementation check. I am going to go through this and give you three arguments in favour of the existence of a direction and its bindingity. The plenary shall act on a reasoned opinion. The reasoning of the Review is obviously linked to a malfunction or to a failure of previous regulation. In view of the failure or malfunction of the House, it has automatically shown the direction of change. In the light of the malfunctioning of Article 86, it has shown the direction in which a revision should be made. The reasoning, which leads to the choice of the revised arrangements by this House, is not negligible. He can't be completely ignored. Secondly, the constitutional arrangements are time-consuming. They go beyond the normal time of the laws and because all our institutional order is based on popular sovereignty, the timelessness of the highest charter, of the Constitution, can only favour expression by a timeless people. In other words, there is the view, which accepts that a certain kind of opinion on the direction is, in essence, also the House, something else. The other has a heavier opinion, because the other one will shape the contents. This gives an opinion which is more relaxed, an opinion on the direction. However, the view that both Bulgaria and Romania want to have a fundamental view of the substance is more in line with the principle of popular sovereignty. And the third argument - thirdly, if you will - is the argument of predictability, which of course also has European case-law and Greek applicable case-law, as is known after the Lykurezu case. It does not favour the principle of confidence that there can be any regulation, even of a constitutional level, which results in the entry of a white exchange rate, without any commitment from the previous ones, without any commitment from the rationale, on the ground that it has led the people and the House, which represents it in the view that certain arrangements must in some way be revised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Paraskevi. The one minute you did not use, because I have predatory and guilt, since the New Democracy considers that I am a very party president, I will give it to Mr Tragakis, who is the oldest of the Members present and was President in the review procedures. In any case, I will also give Mr Tragakis the floor for enrichment of the debate. Here, Mr. Tragakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u77	I want to offer my experience from the 2007 review process, but also 2014, on specific issues. First of all, this issue of the proposed and revised Parliament has been raised. There were a lot of conversations at the time. Mr. Venizelos and Mr. Loverdos participated in the committee at that time. We had reverted to opinions that had been delivered, such as Shovelos in 1933, Kyritopoulos in 1962, Georgopoulos in 1963, Menesis in 1980 and Vangelis Venizelos in an interpretation he had made in 1984. I shall refer to two points, Mr President. Firstly, we cannot make a decision today in an intervening debate. There's no incidental matter. He was brought up by Mr. Javarra. It's an intervening conversation. For an intervening debate no decision can be taken by the House. That's for granted. Secondly, in reply to Mr Katrugalos, I would like to say that there is another suggestion from Mr Pararas, who Mr Parares in the Constitutional Union - in which Mr Katrugalos and Mr Paradise were present - on 10-12-2018 he had expressed his opinion - very clearly - on the proposals and a revised Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u78	It wasn't me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u79	In other words, it is the Proposing Parliament that refers to the articles and it is the House that is intervening - because elections are being held, it has the consent of the electorate - and it will be able to enter into the contents. This process, Mr President, was followed by the Committee in 2008 in the Review House. In the Proposed House, at the time, the article was referred to and not the direction. It referred to the article and what the article which had to be reviewed contained. So I think we should now follow the same procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u80	So, to call it that, it did not happen in vacant ones, because either way, the plenary debate has been evolving since yesterday morning. They spoke, as I said, eighty-three colleagues. Another forty-nine Members will speak, the Chiefs and the Parliamentarians. So, on this particular issue, the House, the House, the House, the House, which, as has already been pointed out, can only finalise a judicial and administrative statement. There is no place else to decide on this matter. We have been judging it since yesterday morning and therefore it has been provoked. Otherwise, the subject of this debate, whether or not it was in the widest sense, and most of the Members and colleagues who were speaking. It would not be necessary, in other words, to have this particular debate, which we said should be held this morning in order to clarify the directions. On the substance, an issue has been raised, but within it there is a first issue concerning the directions. The binding is the essential point, where the substance of the debate is condensed, which is always binding - and we all understand it - of what the other House will be, how decisively it can put its mark on developments. I think that this is a common place, but in the sense of binding, which we give this House the next one. However, there is also the question of the listing of guidelines in the lists, for example. I think that even since yesterday you held this meeting the rapporteurs will obviously be going to a form which will have the proposed lists on all the provisions against a party, namely that it will have SYRIZA, New Democracy, and it will have other proposals which have been made and which have also been made and which have been made and which have been made in a white page - I have seen the draft, which is why the services have done, so I say - it will be a form of a few pages, maybe ten pages, which will have it all. So since we are going to this process - and, agreedly, if I am not mistaken, since yesterday between the rapporteurs - each party or any party wants to see the articles, it also has a narrow description of a direction or anything else, it has every right to do so, because it concerns the party itself. From that point on, all my fellow Members can vote both on one party and on the other and on the other on the specific proposals. In other words, it does not only commit to voting on a party's proposals. It is therefore a matter of the party, of each party in the final analysis, to enrich it with the related description either simply the indication, as it has been said, of the subject or the enrichment of the direction. This really cannot be put to the vote, in the sense of depriving one party of doing one thing or another, that is to say, going to one or the other. Where we have to make a decision - and that, ladies and gentlemen, we can only do with analogous application of Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure, in relation to the incident - is about the meaning, as has been said in the debate we have had, of the commitment to the procedure of this House in relation to the own Revision House. I would ask you to allow me, by analogy, to apply Article 67, which is for the typical incident. I will not make the decision, as Article 67 says. It says either that the President is taking the decision or that it is up and running.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u82	Do you want anything, Mr. Venizelo? In this respect, however, we do not have a circle on this issue. We have had an extensive debate, let me direct the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u83	I have entrepreneured, Mr President. I won't repeat it. The technical part of the procedure, as you are now introducing it, cannot be decided by this House if it commits the next one. There's no such thing as that. What procedure? Where does the Constitution say that or the Rules of Procedure say so? Nowhere. You cannot invoke a provision, a major proposal, to make a Parliament decision on the commitment. You may ask, with our abstention, for a plenary decision on how to hold the vote. In the way in which the vote is taken, then, I tell you that the method: 'The party is making its proposal in the direction, if you wish, to vote on it or not' is, in my opinion, completely incorrect. In accordance with Rule 110, the provisions shall be put to the vote and Parliament shall establish the need and nothing else. Therefore, they are unacceptable, pursuant to Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure and Article 110 of the Constitution, to proposals for parties entering the House in a direction. In any case, I repeat what I said as a statement, which I hope to share with colleagues, that I intend to vote - let me say - on a proposal from the SYRIZA or another party, by referring only to the number of the order, without taking into account what you have entered into inadmissible, namely the direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u84	Thank you very much. It is clear that there has been a calm, correct and scientifically substantiated debate on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like to speak on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u87	No one else will talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u88	What are you talking about, Mr. President? Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u89	Because that's what I want. I beg your pardon, but you will allow me to chair the procedure. Please, too! If you don't want it, okay, it's not a matter. We will not recycle all these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u90	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u91	You have all been so clear, and very well, and politically speaking on these exactly what was said by President Venizelos. You have been so clear and we have been so clear that I am going to take responsibility for this vote by analogy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u92	What about, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u95	You're very welcome. There is no way that the plenary, which is the only body, as we have said before, which does not enter an administrative office or a judicial office, does not have the right to have an opinion on how to vote in the directions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u97	You cannot proceed with the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u98	What about, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Javarra, excuse me. That is why we said this morning that it will be solved and you put it as a need to resolve it as a matter of course before the debate is over. We said we should get out of here today. We had the debate, it had been yesterday and it will continue on the same arguments. But the House must have an opinion on this debate by a majority of the votes if there is such a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u100	On what subject, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u101	On what subject, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u102	Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u103	You're very welcome. The question is about recording. I repeat, the question is this: For each party's right to describe under the articles the direction of the provision and, of course, through this description to document the need for binding - I repeat - in the sense of...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Contony, you said that yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u106	What's okay? Do you think it's obvious that you want to talk? Should we cancel this procedure? Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u107	There is another direction and another commitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u108	Please, we have spoken and clarified that the indication of the direction gives the feeling, the mood and the line of the commitment in question. If the House decides on this, this is a given issue that will be taken into account... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Venizelo, let me. Please don't constantly analyse. You don't have students here to analyze them what's going on. This sensation, as he was said to be in knowledge...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u110	I'm talking, Mr. Pappa. I didn't give...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u111	Would you excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u112	No, I do not allow you, because I want you to listen to me, Mr Javarra. You've spoken three times since the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u113	But you have raised a new issue and we need to address ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u114	No new issue has been raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u115	But it's new.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u116	You didn't tell us that from the start.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u117	Please! Sit down. No, you won't take the floor. I'm not giving anyone else the reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u118	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u119	It is not possible to do what you say now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u120	So right now, you're going to tow the procedure where you want to, and you're not going to give us the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u122	After you told her your attitude. To tell you your point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u124	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u125	Of course, that's different.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u127	Mr. Pappa, don't revolt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u128	Always. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please stop. I say that, as was rightly stated - and rightly so - because the people, the electorate, the elections between the two Vultures, the whole corpus of this debate and the parties' commitments, will be taken into account, not only formally in the article, but also in the justification and direction and commitment that has been made publicly by all political forces. There will be a catastrophe or a denial in this act too. In this sense, the plenary is obviously the only House, which on this matter can have the expression of a will. That's what this is about. Therefore, the representatives of the parties will only take the floor if they want to talk about the attitude they will adopt in the process. Here you go, Mr. Javarra. I would not deny you the floor, I just wanted to clarify some things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, we agreed that this was a free debate. And in this sense, I am indeed surprised when I hear from your lips to make a reference for a pro rata application of Article 67. There is no question of analogy with Article 67 because it is either an incidental or not. It is therefore - possibly with the majority consent - a new procedure. We are therefore moving towards an informal parliamentary procedure which you have drawn up, as you wish. We won't stop you. The majority has this right to do whatever it wants. I'm afraid so. However, we are making this clear: we insist on committing ourselves to the practice of all the previous Vultures, which in their decision specifically defines the revised provisions under the number referred to in Article, paragraph and subparagraph, without mentioning anything related to words or meanings. We therefore believe that any other decision does not bind us. We cannot commit the next House when, in fact, there is a special verdict of the Greek people among the other problems, in which the constitution and mandate will also be revised, the next Parliament, not from today's Parliament, but from the people's mandate to participate in the next elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u131	In this sense - and I am ending - we are not bound by any vote by any means from our colleagues here. I don't know if most people have realized what the problem is, because as you have rightly insisted, it's scientific issues, there's opinions that are different...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u132	We're talking about it a day and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u133	It is a pity to consume the symbolic capital of this House, to invest a party decision in this way unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u134	Mr Javarra, I would like to clarify on behalf of the New Democracy whether you intend to be in the 'vote card', which will be submitted on behalf of the Anti-Population Officer, eventually only in the order that Mr Javarra said. That's what this is about. However, I believe that, at least that, that is, the right of the other parties to have the matter or the description in question, it cannot be deprived of it. We understand that. Here, Mr Pappa, you have the floor for your attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I would like to say this: Firstly, because in the - not to say - newly introduced procedure, which you have introduced today, these things have been done again - I am strongly reminded of the non-Rule of Pink and Silver Votes in Sarzetakis - and because I want to explain our position, and secondly, because we believe that we should not play with words, as you are doing today, on direction, bindingity, etc. And put asterisks, and we have to have a clear political reason in this Chamber and a third, because this is where they are at stake... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please, gentlemen of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u136	Please, ladies and gentlemen. The process is over and we are listening to Mr Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u137	So, because they are at stake - firstly, loyal and sacred regarding the entire Greek people, as referred to in Article 3 on the Orthodox Church and the faith of the Greek people, or as referred to in Article 32, which are suspected political toys, which are jointly made by you of SYRIZA and of the New Democracy and, finally, because there cannot be the vote of 'the present', we do not participate in the political games. Especially in this process, we will not be involved. We also denounce you, as deep anti-democrats, when you plead - to hit the popular nationalist movement, to hit the real people's right, expressed by the Golden Dawn - Hitler eighty years ago, on the other hand, Mussolini eighty years ago, or Metaxas, or Salazar or Papadopoulos fifty years ago. We're talking about today. What you are doing today in the Greek Parliament, Mr President, is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u138	Good. Now I will give the floor to Mr Katrugalo, who wanted to make a clarification, to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u139	The general rapporteurs agreed yesterday on the way in which the vote was held with self-determination. Therefore, not just a vote on the need under Rule, but every party or group of Members, who had raised a hundred and fifty-one votes. I read what has the signatures of all the general rapporteurs...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u140	No, there is no objection on that, Minister. Let us be clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u141	Deal. That was the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u142	There is no agreement, but every party, obviously, has a right to its own vote to do that. We have already resolved this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u143	That was necessary, Mr President, because he responded to Mr Venizelos' objection to the fact that this procedure was in line with....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u144	We're not listening to anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u145	You are not listening, because the Minister is so noble and low that he is astonished to us. Here you go, Minister, go on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, I referred to our joint suggestion to the plenary of the rapporteurs-general yesterday, which included the proposal that the vote should be taken by a separate ballot per party or per parliamentary group or a group of proposed Members. I am simply saying this in response to Mr Venizelos' remark as to whether or not we should vote according to the revision of a specific article. This was a unanimous decision of the four rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, what is this? It's opening another matter now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u148	Excuse me, Mr. Catrugale, don't raise another issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u149	Excuse me, Mr. President. I don't want to open another issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u150	Either way, it became an informal meeting, which has no meaning now for the four to say exactly what they meant. Leave it as a matter. We'll go straight to a vote by means of the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u151	I am therefore referring to what you said, Mr President, about the need for a rise in the House to decide that it accepts the binding position of this House in the direction of the revision which the next House will adopt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Giokas has the floor from the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u153	We have said before - and that we will repeat - that there is no point in voting and that we will not be taking part in any vote on binding or not, because it is political. This is not the case now. It comes with a lighter version than how the ballots are assembled. It is true that we will have the same attitude of not participating, that is to say, in such a vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u156	What can you say? No, now you're here. Excuse me, you want to say about your attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u157	Shouldn't we talk about our attitude?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u158	No, I wouldn't deny you the reason. You were just missing before the cycle took place on the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u159	I've heard it all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u160	Here, you have the floor to say about your attitude.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u161	We will not enter any procedure to commit the next House, as you want to do right now. You can rise, you can decide how to vote. We are not going to give the next House a commitment and direction as a Centro Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u162	Thank you. On the subject, which has been raised and extensively analysed, namely in recording, for those parties, the relevant direction of the issue and the relevant direction in the articles in question and in the view that this House - in a wide sense - has a position of commitment in relation to the future with the next one, having made it clear that, as the people's will is obviously involved - the next Parliament has not just the first reason, the decisive reason - this is a common place - which colleagues agree very much to rise.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u163	We're far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u164	Record that the New Democracy is far from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u165	It's been recorded in the Minutes. Alas, Mr. Javarra. In practical terms, abstention or non-commitment - in the sense and for the future - of the New Democracy, on the part of the Democratic Alliance has been recorded, and I repeat them in the Minutes - on the part of the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u167	Do you want to record your position in the Minutes too?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u168	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u169	Here, Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. If I may also have our position recorded, our position is analysed, in a rapid manner: we do not accept this House being binding on constitutional reform for the next.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u171	Mr. President, may I, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u172	As far as the intervening debate is concerned, the independents have no right to speak. A group of independent Members has not been set up. I'm sorry. Through your insight, because you were here, Mr. Kammenos, as other independent, you were placed. There is a clear majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u173	We don't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u174	Yeah, you don't agree. That, or else, you'll find the way to record it in the Minutes. Thank you very much. Mr. Katsikis has the floor for seven minutes strictly. That's true for everyone. I would ask all the Vice-Presidents to keep seven minutes all day long because I see things I don't like. We must all be - Presidents, Vice-Presidents - strict, so that there is a level playing field among the Members. Yesterday we cut to nine minutes - instead of seven - the main rapporteurs of the parties and there were colleagues who spoke 13 minutes this afternoon with friends and fellow Vice-Presidents who did not give the same meaning. That's not right. You're very welcome. Keep the time strictly in seven minutes. Mr. Katsiki, start.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the first time I have spoken from this Step as a Member of a non-integrated parliamentary group in the Greek Parliament. In no case shall I accept the term 'independent MEP', as it appears and characterises the Members who do not belong, for the reasons known, to grouped parliamentary groups. I want to make it clear that I cannot be like the Independent MEP who was independent because he left his party, although we have reduced rights today, because despite the fact that we are a parliamentary group of the Greek Independent Movement, we do not have what we had when we had in the Rules of Procedure and the Rule of Procedure we constituted a draft Parliamentary group. However, I can assure you that this does not change the spirit of our positions and does not change our attitude, at least against issues for which the Independent Greeks were struggling to promote and defend, such as the values that we represent, even in the process of revising the Constitution. So we're at the end. The House will be asked tomorrow to decide how many and what hundreds of nine proposals will be put to the vote, which will be taken into consideration, to be revised in the next House. Since November the committee set up for this reason for the collection, that is, and drafting, of the parties' proposals to come to this day, has been a parliamentary task. What I mean by that: I mean that the procedures envisaged have abolished its representativeness and essential function. Why else would the elimination of small parties be explained in the whole process? Why, is it not an exile to the small parties when it is a condition for fifty parliamentary signatures to be signed to discuss any proposal for revision? The multi-party parliament is now a reality whose acceptance will help with parliamentary functionality. The requirement of fifty signatures to discuss a proposal automatically cancels all small parties' participations and, once again, strengthens interculturalism. However, what parliamentary functions now need is consensual and not political. So what reasonable consensus can there be when only the two of the eight political bodies represented in the committee have reason and suggestions? What kind of political consensus, honestly, could there be in this sense, in this situation and in this process that has been observed? It is no accident that everyone today, in paper and electronic news, is talking about a parliamentary battle between SYRIZA and the New Democracy on the Revision of the Constitution. My position today, ladies and gentlemen, will be with the features I have had throughout my participation in the work of the Committee on Review, as a Member of Parliament, namely the Movement of the Independent Greeks, since the obsessive implementation of a flexible formula can never abolish the comprehensive existence of the substance. The proposal we presented in the course of the work of the Commission was a thorough proposal, which indicated and reasoned for the need to revise twenty overall articles of the current constitution. This proposal is realistic, adapted to modern political progress, with respect for the fundamental values of our people and our nation. Our vertical opposition to the proposal for a revision of Article 3 of the Constitution, which concerns the separation of State-Church, is based on the recognition of the need to redefinite relations between them, while nevertheless having as a decisive parameter the search for broad consensus that is not present today. Our conviction that the Prime Minister's model of governance, as established by the 1986 revision, often finds itself in complete dissatisfaction with the popular will, dictates the need to revise Article 30 and to introduce the election of the President of the Republic directly from the people, as well as the revision of Rule 32, so that his election can be disconnected from the dissolution of the House. However, the proposal by SYRIZA, accompanied by the New Democracy, also prevailed our clear and transparent own, proposing one - you will allow me to say it - bureaucratic and far-reaching, confirming the absolute prevalence of the proposals of the only two major parties. Moreover, harmonisation with global educational reality and European practice has shaped our proposal for a revision of Article 16 by establishing the possibility of establishing private Higher Education Institutions, so that the country can respond to a very competitive environment. Our concern for retention and residence at home of scientific potential dictated our next proposal to undertake scholarships to participating students from public universities from these private institutions in order to reduce the family budget in relation to the cost of study for children abroad. Our proposal, while in its first part it was assisted by the New Democracy - and if you wish, gentlemen of the New Democracy, focus here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u176	Mr Katsiki, time will be strictly respected, according to a plenary decision. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, I respect the decisions of the Conference of Presidents. However, I would also like you to respect and tolerate an extension of a few years, because I was the rapporteur for the Independent Greeks at the numerous meetings of the Constitutional Review Committee, and, if anything, I cannot - as if I had a role then - continue - for once in Parliament on this subject - the completion of my position. Do me a favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u178	How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u179	I think in one and a half minutes, I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u180	I'll give you two minutes. Keep it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much. I'm gonna need less. Our proposal, therefore, - and I am talking about the private universities, colleagues of the New Democracy - was, in the first part, assisted by you, colleagues in the New Democracy, on the second part, that is to say, the grant of scholarships, an exceptional social provision, was not the same. However, since the need to revise is summarised - and after the vote we have taken - in the revised article and not in its direction, that is, its content, we will agree - even though the New Democracy's attitude is wonderable and receptive - on the fact that the article on the establishment of private universities is revised for the next Parliament. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the Independent Greeks have responded to our role and have done our duty during the whole process through our proposals. I believe that we have been defended with strong proposals that can reform the country's political field in constitutional terms. We represented the principles and positions of all the citizens who trusted us in their vote and were actively involved in this parliamentary dialogue, with dignity and conscientiousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too. Mr Theocharis has the floor. Please keep the seven minutes tight. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. We are making every effort to keep them. But it is a historic time to discuss the Constitution and like other colleagues, I think we have a number of questions to ask about this historic process. It is a mature demand for constitutional revision. Did other colleagues have wondered - the Constitution during the crisis? What form should this change take? As far as the first question is concerned, the demand for constitutional change is mature and politically and legally and historically, because we have a constitution characterised and old and old-fashioned. It is old because the basis of the 1975 Constitution is that of 1864, or even that of 1911, as the constitutionalists say. Most of all, however, it is old-fashioned because it solves matters of 1950 and 1960 that at the time were concerned with public opinion. And it solves them the way our country could think collectively at that time. Many wondered: Did he endure the Constitution? The Constitution, in my view, endured and could not take place. It has endured, because in the crisis, despite all the question, the democratic acquired, which was the main issue following the relocation, was never called into question. But it cannot stand, because we need a constitution that will also build a new normality, but above all it will prevent the bankruptcy we have experienced since 2009-2010. Because the Constitution did not have the tools to prevent the giantization of the customer state that led us here. If, then, the political demand is mature, how should the current procedure be carried out? And consensually, in my view, but also institutionally. Instead, what do we see from the side of SYRIZA? What, unfortunately, we were used to and monitored on national issues as well. This top constitutional process is being worked on for micro-party purposes. Try, in an unprecedented and unprecedented way, to commit the next House. You note that at every historic moment the House must express the popular will in an authentic way and cannot therefore commit itself. Never a House of yesterday can set terms and limits in the next House. Only the Constitution sets terms. Here I shall disagree, with all due respect, with the professor - and I shall not call him a colleague - Mr Venizelos. The procedure cannot be legitimised by its participation. The pseudonymized process of direction will be denounced by the next House, which will resolve this issue once and for all. We are watching what you are doing with Article 32, these jokes by trying to leave some SYRIZA MPs, not to vote for it so that it does not go through with a hundred and eighty Members. Here under Article 32 we have the cradle and a overwhelming defeat of the government’s account. We have four different bonds. The government's first confession is the need for a change in Article 32, that is to say, to prohibit SYRIZA in each parliament from provoking elections through the President of the Republic, and in 2014 and early 2015. So this is an act of apology, that this has cost the Greek people too many billions. The second confession, with all that, is a confession of incompetence. Because the government has suddenly discovered - while it has proposed a change to Rule 32 - that if it consents to this change that it has proposed, it will be trapped in a new four-year period and will not be able to use the election of the President of the Republic to cast down the next government. The third confession is a confession of defeat. It goes without saying that the New Democracy after the next elections will have self-reliance and will be able to change Rule 32 by a hundred and a half, and that government stability will finally come. And finally, the fourth confession is - if you would like - in my view, and the most disgraceful one. It's a confession of inconsistency. For what difference does it make if he passes by a hundred and fifty Members today, since SYRIZA agrees? To avoid spending a hundred and eighty in the next House one or two things may happen. Or SYRIZA will change its attitude. - after the elections, that is, he won't want to change Rule 32 and he'll want elections to be provoked - or he won't have enough Members to reach eighty. Because New Democracy and SYRIZA will normally have a hundred and eighty Members, even if they pass by a hundred and fifty a Member now to change it in the first month, since the next elections. With these tacticalisms, however, we are bringing the great dilemma for the next Parliament, which will emerge after the verdict of the Greek people. Is the review still to continue or start from the beginning? Shall we propose Article 16 or Article 32? Promote strengthening of the country's human capital or political stability? Promote young children and the production of knowledge as the basis of the country's wealth or electoral stability for the condition of economic growth? This, ladies and gentlemen, is an existential problem. And I close, Mr President, by setting out the five concise priorities that the New Democracy has in its proposal. Priority: Article 16 on the establishment of universities. Higher education - we all agree - is a public asset. What is the public good, ladies and gentlemen? The legal form of universities? That's the public good. Two are public goods, and in my view Article 16 should only say two things. The quality of university degrees must be ensured at the beginning of the state. The second priority: the admission to universities will take place on the basis of academic qualifications and not on the basis of the financial capacity of each individual. We want diplomas worthwhile, but we want both the child and the worker and the shipowner to be able to enter higher education if his mind is worth it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm asking very few seconds. We talked about Article 32 before. Thirdly, it is the dismantling of the review process. France has also made fifty revisions, and Germany eighty. At least articles that are not revised should not be submitted to the five-year review, so that more frequent and small revisions can be made. Fourth priority is the restoration of confidence in the political system. Not only stability, but also credibility of the political system and of the policies. That is why Articles 62 and 86 must be changed, without criminalising political life, without ministering to civil servants. Finally, the Constitution can contribute to the creation of a stable business and investment environment, with a secure fiscal environment, legal certainty with a preventive constitutional review when the two fifths raise such a matter, but also for all major investments. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a historic opportunity. We must boldly see her. We need to upgrade Parliament's function. We must crystallise a distillate of institutional consensus so that the next Vultures can share the future with all generations. I am sorry to see, ladies and gentlemen, that you are also missing this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u184	Mr Gregorakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are used to dealing with the Constitution's Reviews as an issue that only concerns constitutionalists. I'm glad to be part of the second revision of the constitution. In fact, most of us have witnessed major classifications that are usually manifested in sterile political environments, as if only the Constitution is a laboratory case. However, Greece has worthy and well-known constitutionalists with a high political index. Many of them, in fact, are also fighting contagious figures of politics, such as Andreas Loverdes, Giorgos Karugalos and other chosen lawyers, who are in Parliament today. However, I consider it a great honour for me and also for the Greek Parliament, I think, to see that there is an emblematic presence of domestic and international constitutionalists, Evangelos Venizelos. With the forthcoming revision, he had the opportunity to unfold the depth of his knowledge by tabling comprehensive and appropriate proposals. The Constitution of a country, ladies and gentlemen, actually reflects its charter, clearly sets the institutional rules and, above all, lays down and serves the character of our democratic culture. With this assumption we must study and prejudge those changes that will bring it into line with the new needs and demands of our political system. Our ultimate aim should be to make use of the maturation that has been achieved in the necessary reform areas. Adapting to the new data is not only an urgent need for Greece. Invoking Carl Marx, I would like to say that it's a revolutionary act that's happening today. Revision of a country's constitution is revolutionary. Our harmony with changing needs and conditions is an indicator of deepening and extending rights, policies, human, individual and collective. Constitutional Reviews that occasionally take place reflect the quality and maturation of democracy, as they are linked to existing links between political and social forces. A Constitution is characterised as a preservative if it serves dehydrated institutional processes - such as the current review process, it is very conservative - and, above all, it serves short-sighted party pursuits. On the contrary, a Constitution is progressive when it goes beyond the established formalism by giving breath to the political life of the place, to parliamentism, to democracy, but also in practice to the contrary to the party rule. Ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional review recommended by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, now SYRIZA, is falsely progressive. The worst is that it is dictated by party pursuits, it is a highly conservative review. It is, in fact, a tool for manipulating the institutional functions. Therefore, it is no exaggeration if I say that with this initiative the rulers reveal their deep conservative face. The changes promoted do not address the distortions and inadequacies caused by the existing constitutional framework, nor do they aim to strengthen the institutions, nor do they help to harmonise ourselves with the changes that are taking place in the modern world. Two examples are sufficient to highlight this criticism. Firstly, it is the way you manage, gentlemen of the government, to disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from party and political competition. Faithful in your methodology "the purpose is sacrificing the means" you set up multiple votes with a time horizon even in the semester, and if not all of them, then you propose that the President be elected by the people. It's not just a paradox that government brains discovered, it's not just a vast idea. The most important thing is that this "truth" concept and concept is inverted by the character of our civilisation, the President-in-Office of the Republic. Do you really have an unforgettable goal of changing it? Because for what's behind your mind, you can think about anything. Or are you showing unprecedented lightness and urgency in this crucial subject? Do you not realize that, if this proposal is made, we are leading to a system of division at the top of the culture and with all these consequences? Personally, I'm not surprised. Your torque to populism is unhealthy. You constantly call on the people to pass the most bizarre policies you have in mind. Train proof is your proposal to hold continuous referendums. The traumatic experience for the country in July 2015 with the self-declared referendum does not seem to have affected you. Neither the necessary conclusions have been drawn, nor your overly perceptive views have been reviewed. You are dealing with referendums as a ballot, ignoring it essential. It is not meant to put everything in the balance of referendums. Imagine following your logic and holding a referendum on accepting or not the institutional rules that we have to follow as members of EMU, such as the Stability Pact. Of course, your referendum perception obeys inner-party purposes. Because if you were real people in the referendums, you would even vote for the Macedonian, which I personally would consider to be very dangerous. People'sism and occultism are transporting containers. You prove that every day. And yesterday's self-confidence is that, seeing the opposition consent to the proposal under Article 32, you immediately retreat. You revealed your real face. You have shown that the dominant issue for you is a unique one, with what intoxications you will drugize the political life of the country. Your sole aim is to serve your close party interests. Ladies and gentlemen, a second leading example that reveals that you are facing Greece as a enclosed country is your refusal to sign up to the revision of Article 16. You know that we are one of the few, not to say the only country in the world, who refuses to do the self-evident thing, to institutionalise the operation of private universities by non-profit institutions. Even North Korea and Bhutan in recent years have allowed them to function. Your denial is an indicator of ideoscopy and rage. It's an expression of service of syndicate interests. It's an unprecedented anachronism. Or is it revealing your resentment with the modern world? Do you not know that our country's great problem, which is no longer its productive, economic and development, cannot be dealt with as long as we remain committed to an obsolete social, administrative and educational model? Where are the modern ideas on the left and your innovative proposals on the so-called European turn you want to make in social democracy, which your Chief is trying to do? All this is lies, all this is really something that the people have understood and will turn your back. To conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that education in Cyprus has a great many economic implications and has greatly helped the educational and business community of Cyprus. Most importantly, the rates of state universities themselves say that the establishment of private universities has made a decisive contribution to the upgrading of public higher education and to making public universities competitive in Cyprus. If one looks at the financial benefits of private universities in Cyprus, one will understand that their usefulness is not limited to the opportunities and opportunities they offer. They further strengthen national income. In conclusion, I should like to point out that private education in the Megaonissos has experienced excellent performance under the presidency of the Communist Dimitris Christofias. And that's because your so-called companions have now relied on the ideological obsessions, they recognize the importance of business in economic development and - most importantly - they have an authentic relationship with programming. Ladies and gentlemen, much can be said of the proposed constitutional revision. I have confined myself to two central issues because I think they are of great importance if we really want to be useful and effective in the country, as we must all be responsible when a Constitution revision is made. Because the country is our common home, it's the future. It is the future of our children, our family and our nation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, too. The President of the Democratic Association now has the floor, Mr Fotini Gennamata.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. What has been heard since this morning in relation to the issue of direction is only an insanity against the spirit and the letter of the Constitution. Under conditions of parliamentary and political normality, the debate on the Revision of the Constitution would be a top institutional process. Today, however, a secret is being played behind constitutional provisions. What do we hear? "I am voting for yours. No, don't vote for mine. Just vote for yours. And how do you know what I'm going to propose? I might bluff. I can see them. I don't care. Suggest what you want. I will do what I want, and I will do it myself." Of course, unfortunately, this is not a political inspection dialogue or a dialogue from a casino. Unfortunately, it is the painful story of the constitutional review in the direction and execution of SYRIZA and New Democracy. With this cheap accounting, this almost gaming mood is approached by the protagonists of false bipartisanism this historic review project. Unfortunately, today the debate is taking place in a parliament that is experiencing situations of decline and degeneration, a parliament with institutional acrobatics, a parliament of "willing" and convenient supplements with a majority of SYRIZA with a remnants of the Arctic right and the well-known roundabouts. Image - we've said it many times - which causes abhorrent citizens. The only power that wins from all of this is the far right. And it is, unfortunately, Mr Tsipras himself, the Prime Minister, the architect of all this political and parliamentary elegance. So it closes today a chapter on SYRIZA's melatotraction, the government that "hidden" the revision for three and a half years and chose to bring it to an end now, shortly before the elections. The gaze has obviously turned on the elections and the defeat that comes. And she plays her last cards everywhere: both in the economy and in foreign policy and in the institutions and in democracy. It turns out this way that we have been discussing this for some time: how SYRIZA did not want to, he has never dared to open up an essential debate on the constitutional revision. He never dared to compare his own proposals, thoughts of a resilient and functional constitution. It uses every issue, unfortunately, the Constitution, to cultivate civil war situations, to obtain micro-party benefits through artificial polarisation and forged dividing lines. This game of artificial polarization and division, of course, also plays the role of the New Democracy - it thinks it suits it - which openly undermined our initiatives for a substantial and consensual process. And now, in the first place, it created a climate of abstention, and then with an impressive 'assuming' - it seems to be contagious - it called for the revision of most of the articles of the Constitution, obviously looking forward to party benefits too. However, despite the great efforts being made on both sides to reduce the review project, our party will insist that the prestige and importance of it be attributed to the process. For many can escape the attitude of each one of us over time, such as the New Democracy's responsibilities for the failure of 2008, but our party has responsibly signed the most substantial reform interventions and in 1986 and 2001 in the text of our post-government constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree that the Constitution should be reviewed at the points and the extent to which it needs, focusing on the citizens themselves and with a dominant aim of restoring their own confidence in the political system, namely, the deepening and consolidation of democracy. When I sent all the political leaders a letter with our own proposals for a consensual review of the constitution, government and Civicism, they were flying a kite. You see, then there was a lot of time ahead and there had to be a serious and substantial debate responsible for all the issues. At that time, Mr Tsipras preferred to continue the out-of-date so-called public consultation on the Constitution that, as you well know, never really happened. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA and New Democracy have invested in the review to draw party benefits, blurring the strong political signal that this Review should have: consensus and consensus. That should be the basis of our debate today. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Unfortunately, the Constitutional Review drowned in the mill of party rivalry. It was degraded as another subject of political competition and short-sighted, if not blind, party purposes. And so, looking at the tree of government survival or party cohesion, the forest was lost. It was again lost, just as in 2008, another important opportunity. SYRIZA is trying to despised, at the end of the day, to invest on the only thing he's left: the division. Against all these logics the Change Movement insists that we look carefully and politically responsible at the chapter of the Constitutional Review. Did this happen today by this House? Unfortunately, no. Both the government majority and the New Democracy, the two facets of fast blocism, proved too few to move on to the necessary reforms. The buckles are over. So we refuse to become a part of an anti-institutional, anti-parliamentary setting, which is in complete contrast with the spirit of Article 110 for the revision. Even under these conditions, we don't stay passive viewers. We will not, therefore, allow the revision of a game for a few, nor in this House, which has lost a significant degree of legitimacy on the way to the elections, but also in the next one. We will not allow the constitutional revision to become a matter of just one political force. There can be no order in white for the Revision of the Constitution. And we will do everything possible and what is relevant to our real political power so that we do not allow aspires of power to cut off and sew constitutional reform in their measures. No provision to be revised with a hundred and eighty votes! [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Our political aim is reflected in our proposal for the Constitutional Review, which we have tabled to the committee and, of course, in the wider public debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the protection of constitutional freedoms is not a tender, especially in the chapter on human rights. In the field of discrimination, we are not content with the semimeters that hide and interpretative traps. We consider it necessary to add the explicit prohibition of all forms of discrimination to the basis of gender identity, sexual orientation, but also to any other situation or cause. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Every man, regardless of his origin, his political and religious beliefs, gender characteristics, his sexual preferences and any other situation, must enjoy equal opportunities. No more closed doors, no more social margin, no more hatred. We must tackle discrimination on the whole and not on the part of a card. Look at Moria, but also the other "soul collars" on our islands. The word 'discrimination', ladies and gentlemen, is so little to describe what is now living and suffering both the refugees and the inhabitants of the islands, in a cocktail of irresponsibility and government analgesia. But it seems to these people that SYRIZA's humanitarian sensitivity has been lost in front of Europeans' demands for immigration policy. I come to the sensitive issue of religious freedom. We have only spoken with courage, but also wisely, of realistic wording, with respect for the historical tradition of our people, but also of a sense of change in social conditions. When others said great words and repeated various clichés, we were the only ones who insisted that an interpretative statement is required in Article 3 that will clarify that the concept of prevailing religion does not affect the religious freedom of any citizen. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] And then everyone changed "modore" and of course they followed our position, as in the matter of the so-called progressive intersection in the relations between the Church and the State which the Prime Minister announced in November last year. Now it seems inappropriate to change position again, perhaps under the general outcry. Is this gonna last? And how much? We do not know why it is known that he has the policies 'coddlers' on the agenda. But it really must be very awkward for all those who have always been so willing to come out to say how allegedly important progressive reforms are being promoted by this Prime Minister. I come to the subject of universities and education. It has reached the time to pass a new era in education, by recognising the possibility of establishing and operating non-profit-making, non-state universities with strict state supervision, evaluation and credibility, to finally put an end to the present hypocritical state of the functioning of private educational institutions literally in a "grey zone" and, of course, to address the corrosive to Greek education and family phenomenon of leaving new people for study abroad, who most of the time do not return back, and to stop losing human capital to teaching and research staff. We are, of course, reacting at the same time to the dismantling and frustration of the public university. We want a strong and extroverted public university, research and education polo with international radiation. Public education upgraded, modern and competitive. The Change Movement has as its primary political priority the fulfilment of the demand for dignity for every citizen. Especially, ladies and gentlemen, at the current juncture of the protracted economic weakness of millions of Greeks living below the poverty line, the Constitution cannot reflect the state's duty to ensure that every citizen, every man, is decent. Our proposal to secure a minimum guaranteed income responds to it precisely the real need for our people. No more subsidised charity, but permanent and fair social benefits. Our resignation tabled a proposal for the free and undivided access of all citizens to social goods and resources. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] But also in the workplace, where we returned to the anachronistic model of setting minimum wages by the government, we stress the need to strengthen collective bargaining and free negotiations. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] With sober and sense of responsibility, we have proposed areas to regain citizens' lost confidence in politics. We have asked for a review of both the status of parliamentary immunity and Article 86 on the criminal liability of ministers, so that they could apply to all, politicians and citizens, the same limitations. We are the only ones who so far demand complete transparency and strict control over the financing and economic activity of the political parties. Transparency and accountability are the most powerful weapon of democracy against wardens and those who are following it. We have tabled solid proposals to put an end to the impoverished association of the election of the President of the Republic with the mandate of the Parliament. We fully disagree with the populism of the election of the President directly from the people, which ultimately alters the form of the same culture in a clear and unparliamentary manner. And because today SYRIZA and New Democracy are trying to use this important issue for their party objectives - one is trying to determine the content of the provision with a hundred and fifty-one votes from now, and the other is trying to secure with a hundred and eighty votes what it wants from this House - I warn them that this provision is changing and changing, but its content must be shaped by a two-thirds majority of the next Parliament and that there will have been a new popular verdict. Stop playing games. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] It is no surprise, of course, that even on this issue that is a fundamental pillar of the parliamentary culture, right-wing and left-wing populism are encountered and plunged into irresponsibleness and demagogy without limits. We have made bold proposals to eliminate the phenomenon of government provocations that cause Parliament to be dismantled on national issues. It is completely disappointing that you have found nothing to say about the revision of the provisions on judicial authority. You are deaf in the face of the need to strengthen and shield the rule of law against all kinds of interference. You do not understand, and that delays in justice and disappoint citizens and act as a brake on growth. The Change Movement tabled a package of suggestions for justice. Unfortunately, we have not been heard. How much longer will you close your eyes to the problems of the judiciary? It must finally be possible for the Greek citizen to feel that he can find the right in his place quickly and effectively. After all, we have shown the capital of local government and the necessary constitutional forecasts to enhance the role of powers and the mission of the municipalities and regions in the modern decentralised model that we believe and pursue. We call for recognition of the central role of local authorities. We want municipalities and regions that are strong, development poles with economic self-sufficiency and regulatory autonomy, on the part of the citizen. We also proposed ensuring the right to vote on immigrants in the self-government elections. We are the only party to speak of the major challenges of climate change and the need to protect biodiversity, the need to protect human rights in the era of the Second Industrial Revolution and new technologies. It is therefore clear that it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, who wanted to play games with the institutions and who gave the constitutional review the authority that it needs and which it deserves, because for us there have never been dilemmas and second thoughts. The Constitution is the foundation of the state, the charter of the country, which is why responsibility is required. World history has bitterly taught the devastating consequences that toys with the Constitution can have. We are therefore standing in the face of constitutional populism, in the face of sloppy solutions, toxic recipes and inexperienced activism, in any extra-institutional intervention that throws water into the mill of extreme anti-democratic elements. With our own proposals we are restraining the deterioration of the authority of the institutions, we are claiming the rule of law, we are claiming the reconstruction of the social state, we are aiming at the consolidation of political stability, we are safeguarding human rights. We are thus planning a strong Greece of knowledge and research. A new state, modern, decentralised, extroverted against those who drugize our course towards tomorrow. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] We will insist on the path of progress and change, on the road of a powerful Movement of Change that supports the Greek state with concrete proposals for progressive changes toward those who question and beat it. We are here, ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement for democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, may I have the floor for a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u190	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look, Mr President, I had asked yesterday to be there at 12 noon the so-called votes, that is, the proposals and the President did so at 13.00 p.m. I would like to ask you to respect this because there are too many of the proposed provisions, and we would therefore like to have the right time for consultation. By taking advantage of this minute you are giving me, in view of the Prime Minister's speech, which - I imagine - his colleagues have been following the style with which a very serious debate was held, to add to the arguments he has to listen to and to compensate for his speech on this subject, the directions, and a position I have just found, Mr President, and I would like to read it out for ten seconds. It is from the Commission for the Review of the 2007 Constitution. My dear colleague, Mr Fotis Kouvelis, says: 'Mr. Kouvelis, of course, must be accompanied by any decision we make in this House with the relevant practical practice, but we must know that the next Parliament is not bound by the directions of the previous Parliament. I say this here because there is no legal commitment on what the next Parliament will do." I would ask that this be taken into account before the other parties' leaders speak. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u192	Thank you. Mr Aivatidis, Member of the Golden Dawn, has the floor. Mr President, you have the floor for seven minutes, as do the other speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. The Constitution is the fundamental and supreme law and charter of the state. Therefore, today's meeting is of the character of a historic meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u194	I'm sorry, Mr. Aivatidis. Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. Those who want to leave, leave. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u195	I will concentrate on the two proposals of the SYRIZA, the proposal for Article 3 and the proposal for the A44 in respect of their revision. In Article 3, according to SYRIZA's proposal, the Greek state should be religiously neutral. With this phrase SYRIZA attempts to overcome this condition of prevailing religion. The phrase of the current constitution is maintained in Article 3 atoms by the First National Assembly of Epidaurus, December 1821-January 1822. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, with which political, national and historical displacement are you trying to cancel the First National Assembly, when the Old Patres German, Andreas Zaimis, Dimitrios Ypsilantis and observers, according to sources, were Panourgia, Papaflessas? Let me tell you directly: Your historic displacement, in relation to these battleships, is a displacement of a pleasure boat. About Article 3, Golden Dawn insists that it be maintained as it stands, that it is the Eastern Orthodox Church of Christ that prevails in Greece. I know very well which word from this specific article is bothering you. The word "us", which, of course, refers to Jesus Christ. It is not surprising, of course, that you have an atheist approach, but Greece will not become Albania, either Albania in Hodja or in Rama, with your intentions of revising it. We therefore reject the specific proposal of the SYRIZA on Article 3. The Eastern Orthodox Church, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and various Greek citizens of SYRIZA, are in the genotype and phenotype. It is an integral component of the nation. You cannot invoke patriotism when you are affected by components of the nation, that is, national ideals, directly or indirectly. In fact, Mr. Katrugalos in his proposal says that our proposal does not turn against the church at all. This is manifestly false. Clearly, he turns against the Orthodox Church. Who can forget to prosecute, after intervention by Mr. Kontonis and to a second degree condemnation of the national hierarch, the Ambrose? Another example. In Corfu, a SYRIZA counselor considered the most respected Metropolitan of Kerkyras Paxos and Diaponding Islands as an ex-School factor. It's disgraceful. Article 44. At the moment - and we inform the citizens once again - it is running, it is up until 25 February that the proposal of the Golden Dawn for a referendum abolishing the Prespecies Agreement is enough for other parties, such as the New Democracy and the KINAL who voted against the Prespecies Agreement, to endorse the proposal of the Golden Dawn, in accordance with the relevant article of the Constitution. So the attempt to revise this article for a dismantling legislative referendum proposed by Mr Katrugalos is clearly a pretext. Because the issue of the transfer of the name of Macedonia and of fellow sinners is a matter not only national but also raises a major social issue, which divides the citizens and threatens the cohesion of society. We therefore condemn the hypocritical attitude of the whole constitutional arch, which has recently been cracked by the parliamentary disappearance of the river and ANEL. We are not trying, but there is a divine trial and we stress that the Golden Dawn was, is and will remain the only political movement of a genuine national guard within and outside Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u196	The State Secretary for Environment and Energy, Mr. Dimitras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Review process is a leading process for improving the functioning of the constitution, but also for the country's progress. In my view, the greatest need for review arises from the change of Rule 86, which refers to the limitation of offences by ministers and the dismantling of the House, if there is no consensus on the election of the President of the Republic. We therefore need to find solutions so that the House does not fall apart, but every government, every majority of them can take advantage of constitutional time. The climate in the debate seems to me to have been quite good, but I believe that there could be greater convergence and consensus on these issues, that we could go to more articles together and in the same direction. Because, you know, I represent the political ecology in both the government and Parliament, I shall refer first to Rule 24, because so far, as many attempts to revise Article 24 have been made, they have all led to a reduction in the protection of the environment and, in particular, of forests. Economic interests, which are guided by nature for the sake of profit, are so powerful that they affect political decisions in anti-environmental directions. Article 24, as applicable in paragraph 1, provides: 'Protection of the natural and cultural environment is an obligation of the State and a right of everyone. In order to preserve the State, the State has a duty to take particularly preventive or repressive measures in the context of the principle of sustainability. The law lays down the rules on the protection of forests and forest land. Customs duties are an obligation of the State. The change in destination of forests and forestry areas shall be prohibited...», etc. Therefore, paragraph 1 of that article actually provides good protection for nature and the cultural environment. On the basis of Article 24(1), there was indeed legal protection of the natural and cultural environment and, in particular, forests. The caselaw set up under Article 24 legally shielded the protection of forests. It shielded itself legally and not really, because we know the extent of arbitraryness at the expense of forests. However, let us remember the decisions of the fifth section of the Council of State with the then President, Michalis Declaris, how good they played, at least in limiting arbitraryity. In addition, paragraph 24 of the same Article 24 states that ‘... in order to identify a region as a residential area and to enable it to be activated, the owners included therein shall participate, without compensation, in the making available of areas necessary for the creation of roads, squares and spaces for public use and purposes, as well as in the execution of basic public urban projects, as laid down by law’. Based on this article 24 and paragraph 3, it became Tritsis's law, which is a revolutionary law on town planning, Law No. 1337/1983. Then, for the integration of new town plans, new integrations after 1983 have sufficient public spaces and green areas, no connection to the old ones that gave birth to areas such as Patisia, Kitsis, Pagkrati, without green and with a huge lack of public spaces and social infrastructure. Therefore, in Article 24 and here with the contribution of land and money, we can now design cities for human, sustainable cities. Attention, however, is proposed by the Committee by a majority to add an Article 24A to the protection of wildlife, the well-being of all animal species, and in particular the introduction of decent living, keeping and transport conditions. It's a good proposal, as far as animals are concerned. But a revision of Article 24 is proposed with an addition. It is a good intention, and I agree, but I am really afraid that if we open up a revision chapter in Article 24 now, it will not improve Article 24. We Economists have known the previous attempts to change Article 24 and we do not trust that the review will stop protecting animal rights. There is a serious risk, if it is voted on to revise the article, open up the appetite for other changes and forget the protection of animals. Because, as we have been discussing so far, this House cannot commit the next day to the changes it will make to these articles. Whatever we say now, the next House can be charged. That is why, because we want animal protection, we think that an addition can be made to Article 25 in the next article. This also refers to the rights of animals, a large part of the life of which is dependent on human beings, which are integrated in their lives and fulfils their own purposes, such as productive or pet animals. The New Democracy proposes, for Article 24, a review which is really in the right direction in one part, namely: "... to provide for measures to help deal with the phenomenon of climate change and water resource management" etc. It's right up here. However, it goes on to say: 'Forest is considered the extent which the findings of science bear the relevant characteristics on 11 June 1975'. So before 1975, in 1974, in 1973, in 1965, those forests were not considered forests? The rest of the climate change that is right, as I said, can be added to another article. So in the question of reviewing Rule 24 or not, we two Green Members and I believe that all colleagues in the SYRIZA Social Group will not vote for the revision of Article 24, because we fear that changes will be made beyond what is now being discussed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, I would ask you to give me a minute, just to refer to Rule 86, which I have just said, in order to delete the Member States' offences. We have reached a point of serious harm to the public, with criminal acts of ministers that have exceeded the minimum level of morality by financing and selling their homeland. So we have reached such a point that those who designed Article 86 certainly want to protect themselves or others. The need to revise this article is so important that we all understand it. I also want to say that the proposal for referendums on a popular basis is very important. It builds on the people's right to democracy and leads us to a situation that is more direct democratic. Generally speaking, I believe that the revision in the directions of the government helps democracy, rights and our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much. The floor is for the Independent MEP, Mr. Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. There has been a lot of discussion these days. Now from the "meterism" of the Independent MEP, and on the assumption that I am not the most special of all in constitutional and legal terms, I sat down and read all the suggestions to the committee and especially the constitutional colleagues. What is obvious is that this House has the opportunity and should bring forward and propose the specific articles which the next House should change. He must not commit the next House. I shall fully agree with the suggestion made by Evangelos Venizelos, with Mr Loverdos, whose speech I have heard, and partly with the suggestions made by the New Democracy. I shall disagree a little with the suggestion made by KINAL, which says 'not a white cheque to the next government'. Once we accept that democratic elections will be held, which will make a government - possibly self-powered, perhaps not self-powered - you cannot rule out the self-reliance of a government and its role as a self-powered government to formulate its plans and have the power to bring constitutional changes as it wishes. I am also not surprised by the efforts of SYRIZA colleagues - and thankfully Mr Condonis disagrees with that - to want to technically provoke elections today, in March 2020, for the election of the President of the Republic. I understand they want to have a role in the coming years. This role, however, will be given by the Greek people in their vote and not by the procedural terminology or by anything else we can today as a term in the constitutional review. The electorate will decide. The next Parliament must not be bound by the decisions of the previous Parliament. That's clear, that's my position. Tomorrow we will also see the ballots that will be tabled and I will judge them accordingly. As far as the articles are concerned, I would like to refer to the Minutes in which I agree with and urge voters and all Greek citizens to pay particular attention. What I am particularly interested in as a primary part of Greece, the economy, development, democracy and the homogeneity of the Greek population, which is a lever for me, is demographic. In Articles 21 and 54, I would suggest that the three-twelfth families should be treated as multi-text families. From there on, I agree with Rule 68 on the committees of inquiry, which gives the parliamentary minority the right to form them. I agree with Article 96. In Article 54 we will give the right to vote, we will see the number for the representation of the relatives in the Greek Parliament. Started with three, he ended up in five. There could be more. It could be fifteen. It is of particular importance in our democracy that people who are, feel Greek and are on the electoral lists and can and should vote, be represented in the Greek Parliament. I think the five are few, the fifteen are a number that would be more representative. Article 86 on the responsibility of the Ministers - we are not discussing it - needs to change. It's been the years. We must also take a little care of the question of decision-making, but also of signatures to the Ministries. To God, not to be able to get anyone signed, fear that he will be put in prison by anyone's lawsuit. The state will not function and we will become Sahara. There should be and should be provision by the legislator for safeguards for the objective responsibilities of any minister or State Secretary who is signatory to that state, so that everyone is not afraid and is able to function properly. I agree with Article 62. I also agree with Article 101a for the independent authorities. There has been a great debate on Article 16. I will not speak from private experience to private universities. What I see as a Greek citizen from my great daughter - and I wish that she too would finish the Greek university - is that unfortunately, there is no beginning and end to the Greek universities. He doesn't like the image of the parties inside the universities. I never liked it. Youth doesn't like modern kids. The parties must leave, and for the parties to leave, there must be competition. He'll have to clean up the university. We should establish private universities, we should not be afraid of them. Competition is healthy. Non-profit businesses, which will provide decent and state-controlled educational services, I think it's alpha and omega to see the next day. Not to go back to the '80s. We must not go back - as Mr Gavroglou wanted to do - with asylum and what he spent a few months ago, with which I disagreed and many colleagues - education back. We must be competitive and see the next day if we want Greece to go forward and our children. I agree with Article 79 on the constitutional introduction of balanced budgets. Yes, I agree that a class should enter that state, even if it is legislated. We are not discussing Article 103, the organisation of public administration and the evaluation. What can we talk about? That everyone will do whatever they want, not control by anyone and be a nice company and make a mess without any control? No, he's got to get in order. Article 3, for the neutral state. Wherever we start and discuss this provision, I will finally say that I disagree. In Rule 44 for the Minutes, I agree. Article 54 on the constitutional introduction of the simple analogous system as a permanent electoral system to see, but also govern the state. In other words, some aim is for the first and second parties to have little distance in parliamentary seats so that the country does not govern and that there are, as we have seen and lived at this time, transactions. Imagine trading forty - five - one hundred fifty - one, imagine what has to do with ninety - five - seventy - five. With ninety-five in the first party, seventy-five in the second, and for you to have a hundred fifty-one to want five parties. Today's experience tells me that the next day will be very careful, with the simple analogue. A great deal of attention, because nothing will work if we put it together with an unrealized Article 86. And to say a few things, with your tolerance, Mr President, for a minute on Article 3. I understand the government's 'belief', I understand the resolutions they have made. I do not understand why they want to get the sign out of the state and call it neutral religion or remove the prevailing religion. It is clear that there is a historical connection that they want to pull away. I shall read a text quickly, about the mistake made by France, and I want it to be left in the Minutes, I will put it down and take all their responsibilities. France is a European country with 8% Muslim population, about five and a half million and a first religion for Muslim believers, despite the fact that it remains a Christian country. In a 2016 survey, 28% of Muslims said they would adopt a system of values contrary to that of democracy, which reached 50% of young people 15 to twenty-five years old. I hope you're watching. Within ten years, the number of windows and prayer halls increased from six hundred to two and a half thousand. Islamology seats were also founded in six universities and in French courts. They constantly sue for removal of Christian symbols from public spaces - what you want to do -, like a lighthouse in the city hall of Bezier, placed by the mayor on Christmas or by the cross in a statue of Pope John Paul II placed in public space in 2006. At the same time, the country experienced murderous attacks on Allah's name, with about three hundred dead and hundreds injured. France is faced with a grim reality which we will sooner or later face. Its cause is not only the hordes of illegal immigrants, who have been flooding Europe lately, nor the colonial policy of France, which allowed the colonies to settle in the country with a more favourable status. The main cause is Law 1905, which separated the Church from the State and did not recognize any official religion in the country's constitution. This meant that every religion was self-financed and independent of the state, which would neither appoint nor pay the priests. In 1905, however, in France there was no Islam. The law was then an attempt by the French state to limit the political role of the Catholic Church. A hundred and thirteen years later, this law has returned boomerang and I say that we will live in Greece, which is not predictable. What is happening at the moment with the mushrooms is unacceptable. I will leave it to anyone who is interested in this text. Also, because much is said about church property, I think the size of church property has been recorded by scientists. The Church owns 1.4% of the State's property. All the rest belongs to the public, the OTAs and the ministries. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So don't create dragons where they don't exist. Take care of our religion for the next day of Greece and our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the Educational Program of the Parliament "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the 7th High School of Nice. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Dimitriadis, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Madam and Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, social relations are reflected in the Constitution, but also in the struggles of a broad political period and with a particular social context. We want this constitutional review to have a stigma, to have a progressive political sign. We want to reflect the critical and important social and political struggles of the last decade, as well as the changes that have been made, which means that we must place ourselves at the current juncture, strengthening democracy and countering nationalism and neoliberalism, precisely because we represent a new political and social majority. We therefore want to make positive use of the experience of the crisis and the collapse of the old development model and therefore to heal the injuries caused by the memorial period. We want to restore the democratic sovereignty deficit in our country, first of all from all that arises from the previous period as a need and, above all, from the state issues, such as the already identified ones, namely the separation of States - Church, the responsibility of Ministers, the election of the President of the Republic without the dissolution of the House, the responsibility of Prime Minister and the referendums on the logic of direct democracy. But on the basis of the revival we are trying to do, we focus on two very important versions of the Constitutional Review, which are at the heart of our attention precisely because they have been raised by the crisis. These are social and political rights, as well as common goods, together with the public space. The common goods, whose protection and preservation are at the heart of our efforts and our political plan, are the common resources, natural inventions, inextricable and exhaustable, material and intangible and serve the needs of users and societies. Secondly, each one has the right to access and use common goods and resources, directly or indirectly, in accordance with the conditions laid down by law and according to the nature of that resource or good. Thirdly, the State controls and guarantees that resources and common goods are not exhausted on the basis of the principle of sustainability, with the obligation to preserve and protect the resource. Fourthly, common goods and resources can be put under management, but under conditions laid down by the law, under the guarantee of the State in favour of the community and the community as a whole. Fifthly, restrictions on the rights of users of societies always take into account the public interest and the protection of common goods and of these resources. Sixth, the state and municipalities strengthen these autonomous initiatives of citizens, individuals and members of legal persons, on activities relating to common goods and common resources. Common goods should be understood in a dialectical relationship with their societies and users. Commons presuppose a community of people benefiting, interested in maintaining the public and managing them directly or indirectly. The State is the guarantor of any relationship aimed at managing common goods, maintaining and developing the public for the benefit of society and users. Common things, common goods are involved in the concept of resource, i.e. with a natural or artificial rich source. We're talking about raw materials, that is. For example, I mention air, water, ore, fish, Internet, climate, radio spectrum, culture, open software, production of scientific knowledge. The right of people to access the common good corresponds to an obligation by the State for good management of the public and to maintain it in the public interest. We have taken legislative initiatives in this sense, namely on how the state ensures common goods and for the benefit of citizens. We have taken concrete legislative initiatives, which are in this direction, and now we want them to be ratified by constitutional revision. I shall mention two examples. The first is the reduced electricity tariff in western Macedonia to all domestic consumers in the same region. In other words, we have the management of all domestic consumers in a region, a resource that is active and produced in a particular region on the specific energy axis. A second example of this reciprocity that must exist is that, in the exploitation of hydrocarbons, we have provided for a reduction in profits in our insurance system, in the logic of intergenerational responsibility and solidarity. We therefore propose, on the issue of common goods in Article 21, a new paragraph, paragraph 7, where basic social goods such as water and electricity, as well as their distribution networks, are subject to public service and are subject to public control. Basic social goods such as water, electricity and distribution networks are subject to public service regimes and are public control. In other words, maintaining public control over basic social goods ensures the continuity of the provision of services at affordable prices, to everyone and to a high quality. Our proposal is specific and it is: Basic social goods such as water, electricity and their distribution networks are subject to public service regimes and are under public control. That is our proposal in particular. This proposal, ladies and gentlemen, like all other proposals, is the ones with which we will be coming to the elections, precisely to reaffirm this prospect and the prospect of a constitutional review. As far as rights are concerned, because my time is coming to an end, I shall refer to a little bit of an out-of-date. In Article 21, then, we are intervening and calling for a decent level of living and a right to health. The experience of the economic crisis has shown the need for greater regulation of the rules that are founded on them in order to effectively prevent any arbitrary restriction of them. In paragraph 1, as regards the decent level of living, the protection of family, marriage, maternity, children, young people, the elderly and the most deprived persons, we propose the radical recasting of paragraph 1 of Article 21 in order to ensure constitutional guarantees through universal social services and income support for a decent level of living for all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. In Article 21, paragraph 3 on the right to health, we propose the modernisation of paragraph 3 on the right to health. With the proposed intervention, the State guarantees the right to health and is obliged to provide universal access to effective health services through the National Health System. Also, in Article 22, paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 5, we refer to and safeguard rights in the workplace, such as equal pay, minimum wage, collective agreements, the principle of favor, the prohibition of cheques.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u202	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u203	I shall conclude, Mr President. So the proposed provisions from us are also in our arsenal, so that in the next Review House, where we will be led as a majority, we can guarantee them, because the social and political relation on which we have come to power is strong, strong and will be confirmed again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, too. Mrs Vultesis, Member of the New Democracy, now has the floor for seven minutes. Here, Mrs. Vuldesis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to make a comment on the previous debate. Is there someone here from SYRIZA to explain to me why this morning they were lost two hours? Honestly, I don't understand what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u206	Are you telling us this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u207	You don't understand, do you? You're the ones who put it down. You want to commit the next House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u208	Whether it's binding, we'd talk about it today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u209	Since yesterday, we have heard Mr Katrugalos' laudable words and how the House is committed or not bound. And I ask: why did this conversation take place? In other words, the people will have voted, SYRIZA will have gone to the opposition and many of them will be home and you want to rule from your home.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u210	Now, the majority of us have it. When you guys take her...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u211	Please, no interactive discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u212	You cannot, with today's majority, decide on the Parliament tomorrow, because the people will have voted. There will be no one in the cabinet. What are you talking about? So what do you want? To rule Greece and from your home? From now on, look, you want to sit, stand up, lie down, don't play any part. Roll will play the people who will vote and decide. All the rest of what is it? What do you got? Complete in your DNA? Obviously. You want to save and well, as you've done in the darkest civil war days, to enforce yours. You have lost again to enforce yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u213	What is totalitarianism?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u214	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u215	Don't give up on that. You haven't renounced anything you know. After the lousy anti-parliamentary and anti-constitutional way in which you have guaranteed your majority here with parliamentarian statements literally made a declaration of loyalty in advance, after they voted for Macedonia....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u216	Mrs. Papakosta, do me a favor. The problem with the statement is the first statement. Then he signs everything they bring him. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Do me a favor, I'm talking now. What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u217	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u218	They are statements because they have made a statement identical, as in other times, and they are even Members. Well, it's over! Did they make a statement that they would vote and give their vote? It's over. What can we talk about now? There's no reason to talk. From now on you can do anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u219	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u220	Please. Please. Come on, now, don't start.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u221	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u222	You made a statement that you would vote for what Tsipras brought you here. What's that? Statement. It's over. After all, you are not interested in the constitutional review, because the constitutional review proposed here is proportionate to the constitutional review made in Skopje and which you voted on and which is non-constitutional. There was no constitutional revision in Skopje. You and Zafe pretend to have done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u223	It didn't happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u224	None of them happened! There was no review. Macedonia stayed inside at least once. ASNOM's proclamation, the most abrasive text stayed inside. They didn't do anything. That's how you like it, just why you wanted to give Macedonia. It's over. And the statements gave it to you. This constitutional review, then, makes no sense at the moment. During 2018, what did you deal with? Can you tell me? I took a look at your things. You have only been concerned with Macedonia's tradition. In the country nothing happened! Even when hundreds of fellow citizens, our fellow humans, died in Matti, Tsipras was in the Mostar hug with Zaev. He didn't come back. He came back late at night to give a show. No way you've dealt with yourself. That was your misery to make Zeph the first cousin of Alexander the Great, Cyril and Methodius, whoever you want. Apparently you'll have some very serious reasons to do that. Somebody can explain to us now why where Mr. Tsipras sat quiet, with his alliance, with Mr. Kammenos and let him play with his soldiers and had his vote, all of a sudden he decided to break his alliance? Why? I didn't get it. Mr. Theodorakis again, who made the super reformer, came here and said he would reconstruct us, make us other, better people, better political life, and suddenly this vision abandoned it. Why? About Zafe? So, just like that, for Zafe, we're breaking up the parties, we're breaking up our alliances? What's that? So that puts us in thought and puts all Greeks in thoughts. And out to get out, all the Greeks say that those who voted in here made a transaction. There's no Greek who believes anything else. So tell me, now what you dealt with in 2018, except for Zafe. No way! No problem with banks and red loans in 2018? You didn't do anything! Zafe and dry bread, like we had no more trouble! You remembered all this after the agreement was passed. You have just voted, Mr Drasakis, one, started to say 'children, what is going to happen with the red loans, with the banks'. While the banks lost 50% of their stock exchange value in 2018 and you did not say it. What did you do? You hid the problem of banks under the Prespecies, and now you have raised the problem of banks to forget the Prespecies Agreement. Because if one of you went out in 2018 and said "children, banks have trouble, they have to be recapitalized, they have lost" etc., would the whole world turn around and say to you: "Then what do you do with Zafe, my Christian, and go and come, while the whole universe collapses and the banks and you run to Zafe, Nimic, Soros and all his company?" That's what they'd say. So you hid the banks. So since you have now paid the Macedonian bill, you are showing the problem with the banks. The problem of the banks has now been raised and everyone has started to say 'what will happen', 'how will it be', 'how are', 'how are they', etc. Take a look at the dates. With 2018, none of you - nor any Minister - dealt with the banks. Now, then, let us again steal the interest of the Greek people with the constitutional review and if that commits itself, and the problem of the banks exists. Now that we're talking, this morning when you said all that you were talking about here, that problem was very serious and there is. And that problem will come up. But, in the meantime, you may be showing us another topic, for example, the theme of Thrace. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, allow me one more minute. Because here we see and it is clear that you have the direction to give the issue of the election of Mufti. Mr. Tsipras says: “This is not a bilateral issue with Halki. I want to give the right to Muslims, to the minority, to elect Muftis." But come on, when his "l want" coincides with Erdogan's "l want". And how is this "l want" of Tsipras to coincide only with Zafe, with Erdogan, with anyone else, except the "l want" of the Greek people? Now, then, you're going to cause a problem in Thrace, because you promised them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u225	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u226	You promised them! Prior to the January 2015 elections, SYRIZA released a brochure in Turkish, which you shared in the minority and promised a election of Mufti. In Turkish! That's who you are! So if you want to pay this bill too, Erdogan wants it too, you have no problem doing that too. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end in a second, Mr President. And because you've also dizzyed us with Spain and Sanchez, I've got bad news, because Sanchez allied with the nationalist Basques, with the Catalan separatists. Now the Catalans are pushing him for self-determination and today they will not vote on the budget. Your friend Sanchez, who has him so much with minority governments, will fall. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u227	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u228	You have the floor for one minute on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. I did not want to use even one minute that the Rules of Procedure give me when it comes to matters on staff. Mr President, obviously some colleagues, like my previous colleague, have not understood what environment we are living in. The last abstention at the end of her position was irrelevant to the object we're talking about. The Rules stipulate that the Member must speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u230	Whatever I want I'll talk to. Whatever I want to do!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u231	Mrs. Vulge, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u232	I would like to say that I do not speak to the House in a manner that 'I fight for the laundry'. I'm talking to the institutions. Those who want to do so, please do it out of this Chamber and not here in my presence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u233	You won't tell us which room we'll be in. The people will judge me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u234	We are all elected by the Greek people and nobody, if anyone does not understand where he is, is entitled to turn against elected representatives of the people in the way that some think about turning in the last few years and describes them as being.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u235	Don't scratch on the slut!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u236	What I want to say, Mr President, is this. Listen, the last reversal of the speech of my previous colleague is in danger of creating a diplomatic incident. Many of the remarks he made pose a risk, because whatever he says in this House is also a legal commitment, especially on external issues. So, some people have not understood what role we are playing here, and they think that we should extort everything that touches ears from our mouths.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, where is the personal issue?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u238	I think the staff are done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u239	Finally, I am very sorry - I will tell you where the staff are - because the previous colleague, Mr President, has made the slip.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u240	When the time comes to answer, everything will be there!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u241	Please, Mrs. Vulture. Don't hold a dialogue! Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u242	When we talk about national issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u243	Don't bother me in class. You can't! You do your job!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u244	Yeah, huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u245	...to call "demonstrations" MPs of the Greek Parliament I was the daughter of an undemocratic resistance who fought - I disagree with what he fought -...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u246	Who didn't make a statement...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u247	...in the face of those who made statements of repentance and came to address it as an affluent...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u248	You didn't have the right to talk about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u249	...daughter of the top resistance, MPs of the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u250	Now listen!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u251	Why, Mr President? Because, ladies and gentlemen, they are voting against bills, not in white, and we must clarify this, but in bills with which we are converging for the benefit of the Greek people. To stop this spit, to stop this targeting. And I would ask you very much, Mr President, to take this into account in order to protect the Members' institution from malignancies, demagogy and from colleagues who do not understand their position here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u254	Mrs Vaki, let's not go on with this because we're getting away from the Constitution and we're discussing other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u256	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u257	He made a reference to my father's name and to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u258	I didn't mention it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u259	You gave her the floor without mentioning her name, and I won't answer her reference to me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u261	Mrs Bakis is a parliamentary representative. Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u262	I have a right as a parliamentary representative. I am really sorry for the previous incident and for not only the one to whom Mrs Vulture resorted, but also, more generally, the others who have been heard lately. We've heard of MP statements, relics, rattles. We have to understand that all this phraseology works is to poison, fill up the space of Parliament, the temple of democracy, and completely depreciate the political system. You know very well who is distracting political goodwill from these phenomena. That's the one. Secondly, the House is composed of MPs, not parties or parliamentary groups. And the Constitution is clear: Each Member is voting consciously. Let's keep it in mind. And I conclude - and I apologise for the abuse of time - with this: when we talk about national issues - all of this is recorded in the Minutes - let us be very careful. Foreign policy issues and national issues regulate international conventions, foreign ministries and relevant actors, institutions and politicians. I would ask you to avoid parapolitical, brochure scripts or I don't know what else. Otherwise, if you have proof, let's testify to them. Let's be very careful. We're not playing with national issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u263	Please, Mr. Stoyannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u265	Mrs. Vulture, there's no staff. To what is the staff? Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, just a minute. I spoke from the Step and said my opinion. I don't mean that Mrs. Vaki or Mrs. Papacosta should call me to class. Mrs. Vaki has no right. In 2014 here you were telling us "memorandum criminals" and that we have a junta with a parliamentary cloak. Therefore, you will not teach me any lessons from Parliament. You're the last, the most incompetent and the most useless of this. Understand? Well, to the lady here, Mrs. Papacosta, you gave the floor, and she didn't mention her name. He who makes a statement is a statement. And he has no right to talk about anyone, because those who speak must say and who made a statement. She made a statement, some others made a statement. We don't. Well, they don't deserve...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u267	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u268	You don't have more personal than mine. Neither your family nor anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u269	It's over with the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u270	I will speak both of national issues and of the constitutional review and of what I want and I will not give you an account. Understood? I give the Greek people an account, not you who are afraid of once we tell you that you will account for both Macedonia and Thrace. That's why you're scared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u271	We're all accountable. Don't tear up false news.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u272	Mr. Stoyannides, you have the floor for us to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. As to whether the SYRIZA Members are capable or incapable of this will be judged by the Greek people. So I'm returning to you. But it is not right to call Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u274	Leave it right and the mistakes. We don't accept them from you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u275	Good, if you don't accept it, so long we've heard your position that had nothing to do with the Constitutional Review.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u276	Mr. Stoyannides, please get to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u277	We do not accept from you, Mrs. Vulture, lessons of patriotism. You're no more patriot than I am!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u278	So on this point I intended, Mr President, but we cannot be offended by the Member of the New Democracy. To withdraw the incapacity or competence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u279	You've known and dare to speak all day! You guys found out all day in 2014!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u280	We don't accept patriotism lessons from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u281	Please, Mr. Igoumenides. Mr. Stoyannides, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u282	I got up on the Step to talk about the Constitutional Review.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u283	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u284	Mrs. Vulture, let the man speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u285	You must protect him, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u286	We cannot accept your insults.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u287	You've known all day!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u288	Nobody cursed you. Mr President, time should begin properly. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on some articles in favour of why we need to revise the Constitution on specific social rights which, unfortunately, we considered them protected and fully integrated into our legal culture, eventually we found that in the time of the crisis, they were questioned or violated with simple interpretative approaches. These years of crisis gave us lessons about how we should legislate. However, since these lessons will be forgotten at the turn of recovery, we need to transform them into constitutional requirements so that if we ever again have a need for our society's rating criteria to remain unstoppable. And I'm becoming specific. All these years of the economic crisis with a multitude of legislation put the decent standard of living of many of our fellow citizens at risk. This is the absolute social asset which synthetically approximates various provisions of our Constitution, but none of them proclaims it to a fully protected right. We, with a deep recast of Article 21(1), defending family, marriage, maternity, children, young people, the elderly and the needy, ensure an overall protection of social rights moving around the wider axis of safeguarding the intrinsic decent standard of living which must in no way be destroyed. The most important is the level of living to which this provision refers and which must be maintained by the legislator in each measure taken. It is not a vague legal concept, but every time it will be determined by scrutinising scientific methods that will necessarily take into account the current social circumstances. Every piece of legislation will therefore be placed in the judge's judgement, which will decide on its constitutionality only if a decent standard of living is maintained by the existing conditions. In other words, there is a constitutional overcriteria, which puts the man who has been numbered in the last few years under the pretext of a so-called general interest as a rule. This safeguard will be provided to everyone through universal social services and income support. This is a provision with practical and regulatory consequences, which, as a broader concept, contains the right to the minimum guaranteed income proposed by the New Democracy. We are not just talking about ensuring a minimum income, but about a tool for proper legislation. Furthermore, I would like to refer to the proposed Article 21(3), by which the right to health is transformed from state care to a social right. The State does not just care for the health of its citizens, but guarantees their health, obliging it to provide universal access to the National Health System, which is now established and constitutionalally. Also important are the proposal to add a new paragraph with number 7 to Article 21, which for the first time ensures basic social goods such as water, electricity and their distribution networks. These goods are expressly proposed to be subject to public service regimes and to public control. In which country the water went to the private initiative, then returned to state control, see Great Britain. This, moreover, has been said by the Council of State, judging the privatization of the ECHR as unconstitutional. And now I come to Article 22, where, with our proposals, we are extending the protection of work, collective and working rights and the right to social security. The principle of equal treatment is a fundamental expression of the principle of equality. Unfortunately, we have seen things that we did not believe. I am referring to the Act of Ministerial Council, in the 6th PSF of 2012, which completely deregulationd labour relations and in which we saw the incredible discrimination against youth with under-privileged wages. This logic of wage inequality on the basis of age has been influenced by unbelievable waveism and other legislative bodies, such as the FIFG dietary committees, which have, in turn, adopted dietary decisions according to whether we have old or new workers. The protection of youth, under the auspices of the State - Article 21(3) - calls for special attention to be paid to the category of young workers who have the same right as the largest at a decent level of living, but also a direct claim for equal pay. For no one, moreover, can tolerate wage discrimination based on data at random, regardless of or in the short term. Distinction on the basis of the formal and short-term age and not on the basis of the essential criterion of the type, quality and quantity of work is incomplete. The unfavourable diversification of the employment situation of young workers is entirely opportune and has a loose and unstable link with the so-called aim of combating the economic crisis and unemployment. It infringes international and Community law, which has formulated two main principles: the principle of non-discrimination on the basis of the type of contract or the time of conclusion and the principle of age-based non-discrimination. Finally, I should like to refer to Rule 86. Article 86 was differentiated in 2001. A lot of people today are blaming it. They think it's too much. I would like to remind you, however, that in this House today, there are people who defended it in 2001. One of them didn't get to this Step to apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u289	We shall proceed with the next speaker, Mr Dimas, Member of the New Democracy. Here, Mr Dimas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing the revision of the Constitution today and, unfortunately, the government proposal does not include Article 16 in the articles under review. It shall not be understood as a revision of the Constitution without the revision of Article 16. In the Revision of the Constitution, all Members of Parliament are called upon to overcome the narrow party limits and to assume our responsibilities towards society, history, our children and future generations. Therefore, we must be able to overcome party obsessions, which are even anachronistic. I want to give you some information about the SYRIZA MPs I found on the official website of the Greek Parliament. Forty-one SYRIZA MPs have studied at foreign universities. In fact, if we remove the fact that eighteen SYRIZA Members do not have a higher education degree, you will conclude that almost one in three SYRIZA Members, who have a higher education degree, have studied abroad. These forty-one MPs paid tuition fees to foreign universities and left currency to foreign countries. If these forty Members do not vote in favour of the revision of Rule 16, then there will be a terrible inconsistency between personal choices and political choices. Very simply state universities for others, but not for ourselves. And if one goes and makes the same proportion of the members of the Ministerial Council, you will see that one in two members of the Ministerial Council has studied abroad. What a hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u291	That's why we're wise.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u292	I wish you were wise. If you are wise, you will also be voting in favour of the revision of Article 16. The worst part, however, is that SYRIZA promotes itself as a progressive party and accuses the New Democracy as a conservative party. And I wonder: is it progressive, so you can keep Greece, the only country in the world that does not allow the establishment of non-governmental, non-profit-making universities? Obviously not. It is the definition of maintenance of an anachronistic model. The hypocrisy, however, of some SYRIZA MPs is even greater, especially those who do or have had an academic career abroad in university institutions, you know in what students pay tuition fees to study. I wonder, then, whether it would not be hypocrisy if the former Minister told the House that he had been working as a research professor at Harvard, Oxford, Marburg's universities, voted against the revision of Article 16? Would it not be hypocrisy if the Minister who was teaching at the University of Kent voted against the revision of Article 16? Will it not be hypocrisy if a Minister who has now taught as a guest professor or guest speaker in Oxford, Columbia, NYU, Humboldt, LSE, New Delhi, Roskild and Orleans votes against the revision of Article 16? Will it not be hypocrisy if a Member of Parliament who has taught in Midlsex, Langaster, Prague, Beijing, Princeston, Rio de Janeiro and is a founding member of the Birbek University Law School, but is he also a founding member of the University of Cyprus Legal School, does he vote against the revision of Article 16? Will it not be hypocrisy if now the Minister who has taught Harvard and Queen's College votes against the revision of Article 16? When you personally enjoy the privileges of non-state universities abroad and don't allow your country, then you're a hypocrite, not to say anything worse. People who have studied or taught today in foreign universities deprive Greeks of the right to study what they want in their country and, at the same time, deprive our national economy hundreds of millions that end up outside the border. Could we not attract foreign students to study in Greece archaeology, history, classical studies, literature, philosophy, tourist professions, shipping, logistics and much more? According to the Organization of Higher Education Statistics, only in the United Kingdom in 2016-2017 studied ten thousand forty-five Greeks, with the number of pre-crisis more than eleven thousand. The most impressive thing, however, is that in the British universities they work as academic and research staff more than three thousand three hundred Greek scientists, who offer their added value abroad. To all of them, you deprive them of the right to work and study in their home country, while a country of the size of Greece, the Netherlands, becomes a centre of study and attraction to foreign students.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u293	And Cyprus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u294	And Cyprus, of course. I continue with Rule 32, on the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the challenge of parliamentary elections. And here's hypocrisy! You who dropped the government with the non-election of the President of the Republic in 2014, have the courage to say now that this provision needs to be changed because it causes instability. The reality is that the SYRIZA - ANEL is the only party in the Transmigration that worked out the Constitution in this way, putting the party interest above the national interest. And because you are so unreliable when you realised that the New Democracy might be voting in favour of your proposal, so that you cannot appeal to early elections in 2020 for the non-election of President of the Republic, what have you done? You've just changed your attitude. I'll make a prediction. I say to you that Article 32 will not include it in the proposals for revision. And that stays to see it later tonight. Even so, the proposal you have made is problematic. What do you say to your proposal? You say that if the President of the Republic is not elected by the House, we will have recourse to the citizens. That's very simple, that's to say, we're gonna have a lot of city card. If elected by the House, we will have a President-in-Office of Parliament, if elected by the citizens, we will have a form of Presidential Republic. So seriously you're taking the city! The truth is that the political system has proved immature to build consensus and, unfortunately, we pay it dearly. In conclusion, Article 86 also needs to be mentioned on the criminal responsibilities of Ministers by abolishing the short amortization deadline. This is an out-of-season provision that has been misused and has proved to have worked in the wrong way. The immunity of Members must be limited to the actions taken in the performance of their duties. The special depreciation deadline for the Ministers' offences must also be abolished. Ladies and gentlemen, of all Parliament's wings, in the debate on the issues of the Revision of the Constitution traditionally there is no party discipline. So I call on you to continue this tradition, to go beyond the party lines for the benefit of the country. Let's not lose another decade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the General School of Kranidios Argolidas. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u297	To what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u298	There was a reference to my CV.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u299	I didn't report myself to anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u300	He didn't mention your name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u301	I think I'm entitled to take the floor for a minute. I don't want to attack Mr. Dimas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u302	Let him go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u303	Here, Mr. Dousina, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u304	Mr. Dimas I didn't have the honour of teaching him at the University of London, where he did his doctorate, as far as I know. He referred with praise for me, for having founded the law school at the University of London, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u305	And in Cyprus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u306	And in Cyprus, yes. State university. I would like to make a simple clarification. We did so in detail in committee, but I want it to be heard here too. Why in Britain, in which I was also a reputer and a dean, etc., at the University of London, is there a tuition fee? The universities in Britain, to say it again, are all public. What happened, though, and a tuition fee went in, and, until twenty years ago, a grand was paid to the students, so they could live? The government of Thatcher and Blair later removed from our budget a third (1/3), which was given for our teaching purposes and forced us to put tuition fees to close this hole in the budget. I'm afraid that's also a logic that sounds here. Because if, of course, the universities do not get a satisfactory budget, as it seems to be going to Greece, if the change in Article 16 takes place, we will find ourselves in the same situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u307	And we had tuition fees until the 1960s.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u308	There was the grand, you know. The municipalities paid their students so they could live without being dependent on their parents.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u309	We're moving on with Mrs. Big housekeeper, MP of SYRIZA. Here, Mrs. Big Economics, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think that the Greek Parliament was right a moment ago? I probably wouldn't think it was right. As for Mrs. Buddhism...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u311	I'll beg you not to make personal reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u312	Good. He talked about bilingualism. Mr. Theocharis, when he left and went to the New Democracy, didn't he say he was voting for the Prespecies? Mr. Theodorakis? You're leaving, Mrs. Buddhism. It's okay. I would like to ask you a question, ladies and gentlemen. Why do we have so much abstention in municipal elections, in regional elections, in European elections? Why do our young people despise to vote? Why would they rather have their coffee than go to the polling station to vote? Because they think we don't represent them. And they rightly say that we do not represent them, because the weapon they have, their vote - this powerful weapon - considers us unworthy to give it to us to fight for them. We're worthless in their eyes. So politics and politicians have the same value. I mean, we're being deceived. I would like to say that when I am a new Member at meetings, and I say 'I am a Member', I hear a noise. And before you can tell which party you belong to, only with the word 'Member', they say, 'all of you are the same'. And you say, why are we all the same? That is why the extreme right parties, nationalists, have reached such high levels in Greece and Europe. I do not believe that all these people who vote are nationalists. It is a reaction to the triumphant, what people have now hated. So I think that's a protest vote. Let us now go to the Revision of the Constitution, which I consider to be the leading parliamentary procedure under way. We have a constitution which is also time-consuming. We can't stay in the quadruple. When we voted on the change of identity, the cohabitation pact, and so on, I voted for them as independent. Even though I'm a grandma, I can see beyond the wall. I'm not hiding behind my finger. Life is evolving and we must follow it. We have had a deep crisis which has overturned many events in every citizen's lives, in his family, in his friends, in his professional capacity. And now we want to collect and form a few articles. I believe that the revision of Article 5(2), which concerns the protection of life, honour, freedom, without discrimination of sex, independent identity, sexual orientation, to have a democratic city, is the right thing to do. We cannot live in suspicion, introversion and in situations that lead us not to be democrats, to see things a little differently. Also, Articles 21 and 22, with amendments and additions, are very important. It is very important that we give a social state to people, our fellow citizens, a decent living, have social security, education, social rights. It must not be a state obligation. And now I'm going to come to Article 16, which has been such a big debate. Well, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation, I'll tell you something. There are private colleges, which are included in the European Union's universities, which do not have a year here - I will not say names, because they will think I am advertising, but I know it from personal experience - and they get their degree from Hertfordshire, England, which is a public university. They swear there with their hats, etc. They're studying the kids here. Another college didn't have a year to take them to England. Now he's also applied this and they're studying here. So these are business as much as you're trying to show us as institutions. They're clean business. We will not do this to you because you want to degrade public education. Do you understand that? You want the children of the rich to be able to study and not the worthwhile children to take tests and enter public universities. The list of universities is very high and especially public universities, either Polytechnic, University, or Economic University. Stop the excuse that you want to set up private universities. You want to do business. I'm saying it and I'm saying it's not going to pass you. Education is public and is the right of every man, poor and rich. If he has the backgrounds and the powers, he can go to the public university. I would now like to refer to the shameful Articles 86 and 62. Article 62 concerns parliamentary immunity. It is the exclusive right of the Member to exercise it when dealing with his parliamentary duties and not to hide behind his immunity on criminal matters and others. That's too bad. And the worst is Article 86. Article 86 ‘non-criminal liability of Ministers’ and the abolition of the amortisation deadline puts an end to the impunity of ministerial offences committed exclusively in the course of ministerial duties. As a result, it restores the sense of justice in order to make it equitable between Greek citizens. I don't understand, can every minister do anything he wants and give Greek justice no reason? I can't understand that, Mr. Ministers. Parliamentary office wins it. You old MPs - I am sorry to say - say "professional MP", business office "Greek Parliament" and then hand it over to your heirs as if your business were your business. I'm sorry about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u313	The speaker of the New Republic has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, your constitutional review is not broad, it is not bold. You have been indifferent and delayed the institutional debate in this House. A revision must be free of ideology, of prejudice and of a clear progressive and European character, that is the opposite of what the current government is trying to do. He tries to work on the procedure for your own benefit, he seeks to commit today to formulating the changes he proposes, but this does not stand constitutionally, as the former Minister of Justice of your Government has admitted, but as experts of the House have also documented here in the large Chamber of Parliament, who are well aware of constitutional law. This confusion also betrays SYRIZA's defeated certainty. He knows very well that the New Democracy will have self-reliance in the next parliament. You propose a ragged and dreadful review, because you have no vision, because you do not promote modernisation. Our goal is through the Review to create a Constitution that restores the value of the country's political system, but above all, a Constitution free of fearful prejudices of the past. My colleagues and our rapporteur have spoken of the other articles in the Review. I would, however, stress the need to revise Article 16 of the non-profit private university. You have to get rid of party bumpers in the field of education. The establishment of non-State universities under the control of a special independent high prestige authority will help to develop state universities as well. Finally, higher education must be disembodied by stateism, whose main expression is the current Minister for Education. Refugee to see the future, trapped in your fears and complexes. Refuse to realize that our country can become a educational centre of all Southeast Europe and the wider region, thereby ensuring thousands of jobs and significant revenues from our own and foreign students studying in Greece and not just Greece. Can't you understand that our students, who leave abroad to study, could stay here? Cyprus and other states in our neighbourhood did so, but we did not. That means progress, that means reform. With you we experience the absolute philosophicalism. Refugee the establishment of non-state universities, but through the well-known IATAP - formerly judiciary - you approve private universities abroad. Since I was a candidate MEP - in 2014 - I had put forward a transcendent proposal, Mr President, namely the establishment of a non-private and non-profit university in Thrace and the islands of the north-eastern and south-eastern Aegean. Its establishment can be a sign of hope and progress for our islands that have been tested in recent years. At the same time, however, it can also be an entrepreneurship hive. Of course, it is not possible and compatible with geographical identification and restriction in the spirit of the country's law. However, there is a solution. It could be linked to Article 16 and to your own development law n.4399/2016 ‘Nowhere Border Areas’, even if he has imperfections, is unaffected and ineffective, even if referred to in Article 7 that investment projects in the field of education are excluded. However, appropriate modifications and supplements can be made and non-State universities can be included with any incentive and privileges that this law gives to border regions, in which the State always has to show its generosity, because Community law is compatible with entrepreneurship. Give incentives to legal persons under private law in these areas for higher education. Would it not be better to fill our islands with non-State universities than with hot spots, entangle human souls in need, with universities with names of local philosophers of antiquity, Thrace and the Aegean islands? Aren't you talking about growth? Don't you want investments? Aren't you interested in new jobs? Why do you deprive our remote regions and islands of this possibility? Powerful remote regions ensure a strong Greece. Here, of course, you are fighting through the Minister of Education the Democritus University, as well as the Faculty in the Dumotich, the Nursing, which is a pillar of progress for Thrace and Evros. With the establishment of non-State universities, will you be engaged? In the three-year period 2006-2008 as eyewitness at the time, as well as in the history of Athens, I know that he faced every Thursdays pan-educational rallys at the University of Polytechnic and above because of the Revision at the time of the Constitution, including Article 16. Athens is the only capital that has for years been subjected to a peculiar siege, with the result that the mall suffers critical blows. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will conclude in a minute. Inspired by the rallys were many who are today on the benches of the government, but also of the opposition. The main question was not to change Article 16. The PASOK parliamentarians were in the same position at the time. Today fortunately they glorified and voted for his Review. What are you gonna do? Today will you say 'no' and will we wait for ten lost years until the next Review to change your mind? It will be too late and we will have lost another important opportunity. Or should we believe what the Professor of Constitutional Law, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, said that the government's aim is to prevent the constitutional changes with which they disagree, between them and the revision of Article 16? That is why it is also disastrous that the government does not agree to revise this article. Do you want armored remote areas? Do you want our islands armoured? Do you want the head of Greece to shine where Thrace is? Do you want strong Greece?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u315	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u316	I shall conclude, Mr President. As former Chief of the Greek Police, I know many of the NETNAs top secret national plans in the country. In fact, in many of them I was the main author and I know the strategic and national importance that universities can have in border regions. The assent of the residents of these regions and their four MPs, Babi Athanasios, South Mitaraki and Manos Konsolas, is by definition given. So, dare, and get out of your party shell. Thank you very much, Mr President. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of twenty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the General School of Kranidios Argolis (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Syriza will have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the political change that took place in the country in 2015 with the two successive elections in January and September, which led to the country's governance for the first time, for the first time, a left-wing force, especially now that we have come out of the memoranda, could not be completed at the beginning of the Constitutional Review. The Constitutional Review is a necessary part of the political system of the country, since our Government is engaged in a break with the past and with the old political system and caused the bankruptcy of the country, in which we entered with the memoranda after 2010. The causes of this bankruptcy are we all know that it was the financial immunity of the major economic interests, the complexity of political and economic power, the impunity of the Ministers with the famous article on the responsibility of Ministers, the typical functioning of democracy and the democratic culture, the abhorrentness of social and individual rights. Contrary to all these causes, and on the contrary to what has been founded over the last few decades, our Government has been seeking to deepen and consolidate essential democracy, to safeguard individual and social rights, to abolish the impunity of the ministers, to safeguard public resources as public goods, to rationalise relations between the State and the Church, to ensure a decent standard of living, to sustainability and to ensure the sustainability of development. So these proposals, which are raised by our proposals in the Constitutional Review, are - and I say them in titles, because I will then, in particular, go to two issues that I wish to raise - the religious neutrality of the state, the political oath, the identity of sex regardless of sexual orientation, the decent level of living, the minimum wage and collective agreements, the popular legislative initiative, the introduction of referendums, the introduction of terms of reference to Members, the criminal responsibility of the ministers, the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament, the strengthening of representativeness of self-government, the introduction of a proportional system of election and simple proportional. In fact, I want to refer to two issues: firstly, the issues relating to self-government and the regional organisation of the state, and secondly, the issues of the island specificity, namely the proposals for revision and additions to Articles 101 and 102 of the Constitution. And because we are primarily interested in decentralisation and regional development by self-government now that the country is coming out of the memoranda and is trying to become a country of normality, this is clear with the proposal to revise paragraph 1 of Article 101 that 'law defines the system of the regional organisation of central government'. What does that mean? It means that it opens up, in my view, the way to reconstruct the structures of services at regional level, so also the meaning and necessity of having or not decentralised administrations. I personally believe that decentralised administrations should be abolished. It leaves the right, therefore, to the legislator's Constitutional Review after the Constitutional Review to proceed with this choice. To date, what decentralised administrations do is to have as a level between local government and state, which makes the system of handling local affairs dysfunctional and ineffective, so that we have a great deal of delays and a lot of things lost on the road. It is therefore necessary to abolish their decentralised administrations and responsibilities to divide either into ministries at regional level or to local government of I and II degrees. In order to prevent workers, because, once I had said this before, some people said that 'you wanted to lead us to unemployment': it is obvious that the transfer of powers will go along with the transfer of jobs where the respective responsibilities will go. As far as self-government is concerned, it is clear that the proposals for the recognition of the presumption of local affairs in the OTAs, the safeguarding of simple proportionality in elections to local government bodies, the introduction of popular assemblies, referendums and popular initiatives, the safeguarding of the participatory budget in consultation with local communities are clear that they give an entity very dynamic and essential to local government. As far as islands are concerned, the proposal for a revision of Article 101(4) for the orderly and uninterrupted functioning of the administration is very important - they are proposals tabled by Mr Antonis Syrigos - as well as the addition of an interpretative paragraph to Article 101, which adapts the administrative model to the environment of island and mountain areas by drawing up operational plans and incentives for civil servants. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, the constitutional review - Mr President, I will close - in order for it to be effective, it must be followed by legislation such as the constitutional revision. In conclusion, I will only say a word about the entire debate that took place this morning, about the commitment to or not to the next House in relation to the directions. It is clear that all parties that tabled proposals within the Committee on Constitutional Revision have tabled proposals with specific content. There are no proposals which are odourless and colourless, which are simply submitted with numbers, i.e. I want to change Article 3, 5, 25 etc. There is a specific content. This content is either voted here with fifty-one or eighty-eight Members and in the next House, of course, it is again voted with fifty-one or eighty-eight Members, depending on what it will have taken in this House. Therefore, with the popular verdict between the two Vultures, it is called upon when the voter goes to the polls to know what the proposal of each party to revise the Constitution is. Therefore, those who want to vote on the referendums, the terms of office, the Members of Parliament and a number of other issues - not to repeat them - will say that these are the proposals of the SYRIZA, so I shall vote for SYRIZA, those who want to constitutionalise liberalism are voting for New Democracy, the balanced budgets. So that's what this is about. There is a commitment. No one can bind the next House at all. This debate should therefore be completely demolished. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, too. Mr Barriots, Member of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u320	Thank you, Mr President. With the start of the crisis in Greece, almost at the same time began a debate on constitutional change, as by many - not only on the Left - it is the truth, but also from other places - there was faith or the idea was promoted that constitutional change would be a kind of panacea, which alone will change bad texts and lead the country out of the crisis. From Article 86, which we all agree on in its change, up to the incredible amendments that we have heard concerning the state - I would remind you that even the introduction of 'Upper House' in Thessaloniki has been heard as proposals for change of constitution in previous years - it has prevailed for too many years in the country what Mr Venizelos has been a constitutional populism that is fortunately a few things left. But, in my opinion, both in the SYRIZA proposal for the revision of Article 32 and the election and recourse to the popular verdict for the election of the President of the Republic and the logic of the referendums in the way it is put into it. From the time the SYRIZA - ANEL government took over, for a long time the unavoidable, I fear, for the SYRIZA Governments - ANEL degeneration of the procedure: Party on the constitutional review, Road show across Greece, Committees on Constitutional Revision, dialogue that has never been held, even with reference to a referendum-type change of the Constitution - through a referendum, i.e. -, to conclude here, in a short period of discussion during the Committee on Constitutional Revision, which was extremely small and the debate of the whole House in a really bad climate, as after what we have seen in the past weeks in this House, which was to give a vote of confidence in the government, the withdrawal of the ANELs etc., and the new majority on the 'Presidency', that is what it is voting on in a really bad context, as the resolution will be voted on today in which the Government is not to vote on today. This is an incredible confusion that, like the attempt to commit itself and the next House from today for the directions of the Review, does not help nor to achieve the shocks needed for a truly successful and solid process of revision by the House and turns, I am very afraid, as was the case with the Prespecies Agreement, a major and important issue, such as the Review by Parliament, into a tool for internal policy rather than the opportunity for the Review. Our position is clear here: No article should get more than a hundred nine votes in this House, so that the popular verdict is mediated and given that in the next House all changes must be made by an increased majority, the Constitutional Review should proceed in the way it needs to go, namely by consensual procedures and without having the eye on inner-party and small-party purposes, as New Democracy and SYRIZA very much fearfully do. But very briefly Mr Venizelos put it, the problem of the country is not a constitutional one, primarily a political one. There may be things that need to be changed in the Constitution and revised, but the big problem, especially in the crisis, may be that governments fail to take advantage of the constitutional frameworks and possibilities offered by today's democracy, our democracy as it works, to secure majorities not only in Parliament but also in society to move forward with changes and reforms that will bring the country out of the crisis and lead it to growth and modernisation. This is the country's real problem and the constitutional review cannot respond to this problem. Those who believe that, by changing the way in which the President of the Republic is elected, problems will be solved by magic or by changing Article 16. I would like to say that I am in favour of changing the existing Article 16, but it will not solve the problem of higher education alone. There are many things that need to be done in the country so that we can get through this and it is not the panacea of the Constitution. However, it needs to be adapted and reviewed both because of the lessons learned in recent years from the application of the existing provisions, as well as adapting to new realities in a country, I would remind you, which is part of the European Union, and its Constitution must follow European reality, because otherwise there are problems. So it seems that if something is agreed today is the stabilisation of the government cycle. Even SYRIZA, who used - in fact - the constitutional provision for the dissolution of the House in the event of the President of the Republic not being elected in 2014, seems to agree that it is necessary today to move to a way of electing the President that does not automatically involve the dissolution of the House. However, the games that we have seen yesterday, namely, the vote, the institutionalisation, the attempt to revise the Constitution with the mind and eye of both major parties in the 2020 presidential elections and their micro-group pursuits, are unacceptable to intervene on such an important issue. The revision of Rule 32 must be made, in particular, on the basis of a change in the way the Greek Parliament operates and, in conjunction with the proposal we have made, so that the dismantling of the Parliament and recourse to the polls on a national issue can only be done by an increased majority and that a government cycle is created which will save the country from the constant election and from the instability generated by this not only in the political but also in the economic sphere. We also need to look at the revisions that need realism and on the basis of new realities. They don't need ideologies and they don't need obsessed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The case referred to in Article 16 is this. Private universities operate in the country. Universities of the European Union operate within a truly grey zone, which is not controlled precisely because Article 16 contradicts European law. In the country there are tens of thousands of students each year who come abroad and bring in the country a degree in private universities. Cyprus, very close to us over the last five years, has a horrifying, explosive development of higher education, based on the creation of public and private universities and absorbing a very large proportion of Greek students and Greek exchanges. All this is realities which we cannot ignore and we must see. So it is necessary to allow non-profit institutions, private universities not only as a recognition of reality, but also to reverse the migration wave - if we really want to talk about reversing the Brain Drain, it is not just the students, but it is also the teachers who come out - and also about the country becoming an educational polo in the region. But above all, we need to change Article 16 to regulate the present chaotic landscape, which does not even allow the quality control of the existing situation. It is hypocrisy to deny preservation in the name of any ideological appeal, as the reality that has been formed is different. And finally, the public university is not at risk from establishing non-profit institutions. He's in danger from enclosures inside, who don't know what to say, and I don't know what to say about original investigation. This will be improved by the creation of non-profit institutions. Thank you, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u321	MEP Ms Olga Kefalayannis asks for a short-day absence from abroad from 14 February to 15 February. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u322	The House therefore approved the requested authorisation. Mr. Hadjisavvas has the floor since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr President. After a relatively rapid process of processing, we are going to discuss the revision of the Constitution in at least the first phase. But in what political circumstances is this debate going on? SYRIZA through his minister and MPs has announced the thought of undermining the vote with an eighty-eight-member vote, if the New Democracy votes for some articles, so that the next vote with a New Democracy government should have an eighty-eight and that he should be a regulator of things. The New Democracy, on the other hand, wants to spend a hundred and eighty to ensure that it is not required to do so as government and begging SYRIZA. We still have complaints from New Democracy and the rest of the Opposition, but above all from the Civic Opposition, for a constitutional parliamentary deflection of the government, in relation to the statement by some independent MPs, in a single letter, that they will support the majority in all bills. But from that day when denounced this diversion, the Civic Opposition has not left a bill that has not voted for it, which is, of course, indicative of the treatment and management of such a complaint, which is only for television panels and for the eyes of the world. The five to six months in 2015 SYRIZA rebels, unfortunately, have lost for them long the morally supposed advantage that had as the Left and more than the full-blooded words - expressions, supposedly against, ruptured, radicalism and other such words from Communist tapes don't convince anyone. How could the SYRIZA minority government constitutionally justify deciding on the people by means of a 'no' referendum in new memorials, but do you bring and impose new memoranda, working with the New Democracy, which, until then, you accused it as a memorandum force? How could you constitutionally justify the fact that the Greek people's opposition to the Ambassadors' agreement, by more than 75%, is recorded in polls, that the people on the streets and in squares protest at the rally, that the student youth is mobilised against the Prespecies's Agreement and that the government swears them, targeting them and ultimately passes it against the will of the Greek people? How can all this be warranted constitutionally? But to play a little with your election, the traditional clientele, you are wearing a revolutionary invisible uniform again and you raise various issues, but it seems your nakedness. You're separating Church and State. And, of course, I don't know if the former Minister of Education, Nikos Friend, is listening to this, who, at the direction of the Church, was caratated. What's he gonna say? I mean, the comrade, at the command of the Church. Otherwise you try to separate Church and State. In fact, however, what you believe in, which you represent and want is a separation of state and Orthodox Christian faith. You hit orthodox, family, multiple family, mostly, you devalued the religious class by making it into a ridiculous form of religion that Greek Christian parents refuse to send their children to attend schools. But whatever you do, the Bolsheviks of SYRIZA and the liberals of New Democracy, with the common designs for mosques, nationalitys and an effort of religious and national alteration of the population of Greece, the rupture of the Greek nation and Orthodox Christian faith, you cannot succeed. Anyone who hits Hellenism now also hits Orthodoxy. Whoever hits Orthodoxy hits Hellenism. Proof that you cannot do any different and cannot impose this separation is the visit of the Prime Minister to Agia Sophia and the Theological School of Halki and all these nice things we saw on TV. The New Democracy on the other hand, how much hypocrisy, how much more ridiculous, how great and courageous it may have! We see parliamentarians, executives and journalists who belong to the party come back with tears and mournings on all channels and while denounce the intervention of the SYRIZA Government in the judiciary against New Democracy on political criteria, at the same time admit that New Democracy closed in prison on the Golden Dawn in 2013, because it stole votes from New Democracy and took high percentages, as the then Secretary of Government admitted. That is to say, the dilemma of the government's intervention in judiciary, with micro-political motives! And the government and Civic Antipolitics have been enclosed in their hard offices, they do not listen to the people’s daily problems. There was controversy about whether or not we would have private or non-universal universities, when Greek parents find it difficult to meet the demands in school, clothing, even from primary schools, and, of course, for their children, for high school and for high school. You went directly to settle the subject of universities in the unrealistic world you live in. Can you imagine a curriculum, I don't know, pan-European-wide, global-wide? Thessaloniki has no metro, but will it not soon have urban transport and you want people to come to our universities? You are also confronted mainly with how you get to power as a government, that is, how you grab the government, power, and how it suits you to rule. Immediately after you are concerned with how one cannot take authority away from you, how this government cannot fall and if one succeeds in getting power from you, have you made sure that the ministers get away from criminal responsibility and do not go to jail. So under Article 86, there couldn't be persecution? Is it your fault that the Constitution is not being prosecuted to ministers, who are violating their duty, or to previous ministers from the new government who are supposed to clean up the landscape, but is it doing the same? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a minute, Mr President. The Golden Dawn is therefore calling for the disgraceful Article 86 on non-responsibility of Ministers to be abolished. It calls for the abolition of the parliamentary immunity which we apply in practice, as whenever a charge comes, by ourselves, we are asking for the waiver of parliamentary immunity to be waived. We ask for it to apply to all Members. We are also calling for the abolition of the funding of the parties. There is no need for the Greek citizen to pay the parties to work. Golden Dawn has been operating very well for so many years without state funding or a euro. Of course, we are also calling for the abolition of the right to borrow the parties, with all the millions that you have had from the two parties over the past decades, and for the rest that go on the same path. But the people are asking for something much simpler. If you were out there listening to what he says, you'd understand. He asks for a law which will very simply oblige you as parliamentarians, ministers and government to observe the laws and, of course, an article in the Constitution that will oblige you as a government to observe the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u324	We proceed with the next speaker, Mrs Manolakos, MP of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u325	Thank you. It is cultivated by all parties that the Constitution is above all, so it is good because it is equal to everyone. But that's not true, and that's not true. Inequality is inherent in the exploitive system that ensures the concentration of wealth among the few of the exploitation of many, that is, of human beings. Each Constitution, therefore, guarantees the interests, the privileges, the power of the sovereign class, in the case of civil order. There are several articles that provoke it. And, of course, in every revision of the Constitution, they remain untouched and perpetuate their strength almost as they were written at the outset. Who's being reviewed? They are revised to modernise and adapt to the new conditions. That is why the first objective of both the proposals of the Government and of the New Democracy and other parties is to ensure government's political stability and continuity, namely that the exercise of the dominant anti-popular policy is not disturbed by a number of factors, including the people, their movement, the popular factor and the pressure they can exert - and it must exercise - towards the government, to the governments as a whole. This is aimed at the proposal to disconnect the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament and for a possible election by the people. It therefore promotes and fulfils each revision of the new needs of the system, as they are shaped in the course of developments. In fact, you are presenting it as a resolution and moralizing a rotten and outdated system, using heavy expressions, such as 'leaving domination', 'direct democracy', 'capped institutional moment' and others. It is the same story that you say the memorials were abolished while some eight hundred memorial laws were left unshakeable to torture the people. This Review, therefore, does not affect previous reactive changes, but goes further on to shield the urban political system and align it with the current needs of the ruling class. The examples are many and topical. An example of this is about local self-government, the long hand of each government and the implementation of the memoranda, with the exception of the communist mayors. The proposal made by SYRIZA for institutions, as mentioned, of direct democracy, etc., hides the reactionary framework that has been shaped all these years in the municipalities and regions and with the contribution of the current government, since municipalities and regions have evolved into a collapsing anti-linguistic mechanism, a mechanism for recompense for social services crucial to people's rights, but which are downgraded to serve business interests, but also a mechanism for dismantling labour relations. With regard to compensation fees, these are fire and are accompanied by carpets and downgraded further services. In Piraeus, for the last ten days, a section has fallen from the ceiling to two schools, Ionideo, which is a model school at the 26th Preschool in Piraeus. Well, by luck, they didn't hit kids. But the staff in the municipality are lacking, and therefore occasionally they have contracted octamienists, who leave in June, that is, post-elections. Work relations have become a tire to make workers dependent. Of course, these have been implemented since the previous years by all governments - and New Democracy and PASOK and SYRIZA - under the well-known 'CARBISITRIA' laws, 'KARIKRAT' and 'CLISTEN' laws. The years of the memoranda were completed with the well-known 'economic observers', various 'cutters', penalties, and so on. To a large extent, the changes made in previous years to local government have been drafted with previous revisions. SYRIZA's proposal is without prejudice to this framework. And the New Democracy's proposal at the level of the Constitution's provisions makes it even worse than the current one. We propose that the State should ensure that the necessary financial resources are guaranteed in the LAGs, with funding through the State budget, that disciplinary measures are imposed against elected representatives of local government and that there is a ban on the control of the appropriateness of the decisions by state bodies. Any disputes must be resolved by justice. And we're talking specifically about Article 102 of the Constitution. We have tabled these proposals at the Special Secretariat, as we have tabled a proposal to abolish the reactionary and disgusting provision of Article 107 which guarantees the special tax exemption benefits for shipowners and foreign capital. They don't even pay municipal fees! So you have ensured that the tax exemption and the tax evasion they enjoy is legal. That's a scandal. It is scandalous for seafarers to pay more taxes than shipowners or to have tax-free oil for shipowners, airlines, hoteliers and others, and not to give tax-free oil to the farm! You don't touch this scandal, you don't touch it, because you support it. Your aim is, therefore, to make a makeup to restore the prestige of the urban political system, which was particularly shaken by the years of the crisis because of the memoranda, because of anti-grass politicians, because of the inconsistency of speech and works. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But whatever makeup you do, his ugliness doesn't even hide the necessity of overthrowing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. We shall proceed with the next speaker, Mrs Vagonakis, a member of the SYRIZA. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u327	Apart from the fact that it is at a historic time when the Left and democracy have met, the Constitution is timely and coincides with the country's return to normality and full recovery of sovereignty, after a critical period that passed, which has limited its institutional potential. Apart from all this, however, the debate is taking place in a very critical period for Europe, where two points of view are conflicting: nationalist populists and our view of a Europe of social cohesion, freedoms, individual and social rights. In these circumstances, the Revision of the Constitution is a democratic and progressive bet, a historic opportunity to build those institutions that give voice and decision to many. The SYRIZA proposal has two spearheads: firstly, the fundamentality of the democratic culture and secondly, the strengthening and deepening of individual and social rights. In this first part we are trying to complete an attempt at institutional intervention that we have started since 2015. There are many examples: the vote on the simple analogous system as an election system in the parliamentary and self-government elections, the abolition of the political condolences of strikers, the restoration of collective bargaining, but also legislation to extend freedoms and the safeguarding of new social and political rights, taking steps towards the real equality of many, regardless of sex, race, colour or sexual orientation. Revision of the Constitution, however, can further promote mature and necessary progressive areas for restoring citizens' confidence in our political system as a response to the challenges that democracy and the parliamentary system are facing today. This can be done through institutions of direct democracy, complementar and not competitive with representative democracy, which enable the people to speak, not only in elections, but every time their active intervention is needed. Secondly, it must be the people more effective in their efforts to reverse the democratic balance of the civil society. In this context we are proposing the establishment of a permanent analogue electoral system, but also the introduction of the constructive vote of distrust, which is an institution according to which a motion of censure cannot be accepted by Parliament, except on the condition that a new Prime Minister is also voted on. And, of course, this does not only create conditions of political stability, but also creates those conditions for four-year political circles, beyond and outside regularism and design of extra-institutional political centers. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] In the same context, the proposal that prevents Parliament from dismantling on the grounds of the inability to elect a President of the Republic with an increased majority in Parliament, and the proposal that the Prime Minister should necessarily be here by the Greek people, that is to say, to be an elected Member. It is a proposal that takes into account the political experience we have gained in the years of the crisis. Another measure relating to the institution's architecture is the obligation for the new independent authorities, if any, to be established only by an increased majority of three fifths of the total number of Members. If, however, the aid of Parliament and of the elected government is one of the pillars of our proposal, the strengthening of popular intervention is the other. Because the people are the basic guarantee of respect for the democratic principle for us. That is why we are proposing to guarantee the right to a referendum on the people's initiative, either on critical national issues or on dignified bills that people want to overthrow, but also on the introduction of a popular legislative initiative. It is also proposed for international treaties or agreements providing for the transfer of sovereign powers by the State, that they be cancelled by a referendum. In other words, they are measures that bring the people to the fore, but also politics, dialogue, disagreement and the confrontation of political projects. However, the Constitution must not only serve the rule of law, but must also serve the social rule of law and complement the democratic principle in harmony with these two fundamental principles of the culture. The attack on social rights must be addressed, which, especially in the years of the memoranda - but also before them - was identical to neoliberalism. The dismantling of the right to work must be reversed, the deregulation of the labour market, the weakening of the protection of common goods, the constitutional disgrace for critical areas of the social state. For our part, we had declared our will for a Constitution that will protect public goods, such as water and electricity, from the rubbish of the private initiative, which will emphatically guarantee the protection of labour and workers, which recognises the exclusive competence of the social partners to define the minimum wage and strengthens the state guarantees for universal access to health services for all citizens, which will constitutionally guarantee the state guarantee of a decent standard of living for all. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, all these proposals reflect our own ideological choices, but we appreciate that they are also positions that meet the real needs and anguish of Greek society and can therefore find a wishful ears in such an emblematic process as the process of Revision of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u328	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Thanasis Pafilis has the floor. Then there will be a speaker, Mr Besiropoulos, and then Mrs Vaki, a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u329	Despite the fact that the revision of the Constitution was announced with tymbolism on the part of SYRIZA and a great welcome by the urban parties, despite the fact that it has been attempted and attempted to set up a false dilemma, as usual, the dilemma of progress - maintenance that does not have an essential basis, throughout the debate and in the committee and in plenary, apart from individual cliffs and crowns, in substance dominated low tons and a consensual climate. It's normal in our opinion. Why? Because the Constitution safeguards the power of the bourgeoisie, ensures its own interests, their own alliances, promotes its objectives and objectives. And let these ridiculous, some SYRIZA speakers say that the Constitution only reflects the correlation of forces. Oh, no! It's a constitution of sovereign order. But they don't dare say it. Is that what the other parties agree on? They all agree, zero except for the JRC. And here is the basis of consensus. This is the common basis, the saints, the common starting point, which is expressed not only in the Constitution, but in the economic sector, in foreign policy and in everything else. Differences are significant and as far as they go, the more they look like two drops of water. Are we wrong? We will not start from what is being revised, but from what is not being revised. Basic articles, the elbows of the system, remain Moses' ten commands, not engraved on the plates, but on the civil constitution that “do not burn.” No one touches it except the JRC. Nobody's talking about it. After all, the revisions so far not only did not touch these articles, but were made to ensure the stability of civil power and to reflect the new needs of the system in legal terms on the basis of new developments. Previous revisions proceeded with a series of changes in the field of the economy, the freedom to act on capital set by the integration of the country into the Euro-Union framework. Yes or no? Yeah. The strength of the law of the European Union and NATO has been strengthened even more - this is another story and we will say so - to intervene even in the internal affairs of countries, which SYRIZA agrees with. When bourgeois power is at stake, the validity of these laws, even of the Constitution itself, is being claimed and strengthened. In fact, what seemed as a surprise to you for the curse of God, the memorials, had been established before, the institutional framework had been established to bring the memorials to Greece. And you were all applauded by SYRIZA. And EMU and everything else. In fact, you asked for more depth. Here, the deepening that came with the memorials and the economic crisis, which were the needs of capital. Has the aspiring commission over the years not been institutionalised in constitutional terms? Of course, a set of measures in favour of capital. So the constitutional review calls into question the assignment of sovereign rights and other responsibilities to the European Union? Well, the rest of you are with a thousand. How about you? Oh, no. Why? Article 27, Article 28. "Extreme of the tomb is silence on the grounds reigning." Cuveda. What do Articles 27, 28 and 80 generally say? For the assignment of powers, they say, of crossing foreign troops. Spoils for them, jelly. And now the lady is coming - I will say it now, it's governmental, I don't want to say face to face - and she says that we're taking a big measure. Awesome. We say that for an international treaty providing for the transfer of sovereign powers by the state, this is mandatory by referendum. First question: Truth, tell me, is there anything you didn't give? Can you find one, move it like that, that he didn't give before and now? Because before it's all I said, now is the SYRIZA seal, and now it's new bases, until the humiliation of not accepting SYRIZA's proposal to ban the installation of nuclear weapons in Greece. Aren't you all ashamed of each other? What are you gonna say tomorrow? We proposed, if you would accept it, have it and move it, banned the installation of nuclear weapons in Greece. And you said 'no'. Why? So much system servants are you? Secondly, the referendum is a mockery. Why is it a mock? Of course, he says, if it is done, it is compulsory. Who decides whether the referendum will take place? The government. To make a hypothetical scenario, let's say there's a matter on the bases and others for a referendum. What can the government answer with this trick? To say that these are international treaties, they are enshrined in the Constitution, they are the obligations of the country. I'm telling you all about it. It is therefore not a national matter, it has ended. So there is no referendum. You're making fun of the world. So we challenge and say: Why? What Review? Here you don't dare just do things. All the years when the philanthropic movement was conflicting, anyway, we were converging in nuclear power - you even had a flag to degrade others, yet we were converging in that - and now the government of the Natian nuclear Left refuse a basic thing, that we do not want nuclear in our country, because it can be destroyed. It has been said that we are trying to close the wounds of the memorials. But what kind of hypocrisy? How do you try? Incorporating all the Memorandums. They've all been incorporated into the legislation. There is no law being abolished and, secondly, more provocative, you integrate the new ones that came, except for the previous ones. I have two examples, what is the word - the key to the insurance that the European Union was trying to cross into our country and failed to do so because of a resistance to the labour movement? Rewards. Now, he's also entering the Constitution and the mockery - it's in the proposal you've made - it's that you're presenting it as a charity measure. You are effectively abolishing the social character of insurance and you have arranged by law to put the private, not from the window, but from the door. Second big hypocrisy, unbelievable. You're champions. You say: 'We keep public control over water, electricity and water networks.' In fact, terrible, that is what the Euro-Union legislation and business groups require. They want a state that will deliver water, which will deliver energy and other social goods to individuals and the state to share between monopolies and multinationals. And monopolies and multinationals demand such a state, because in competition the big fish eats the smallest. That's what you unify. Article 18. Silence of guilt. What does Article 18 say? It says: "Specific laws regulate the ownership and disposal of mines, mines, caves, archaeological sites, treasures, healing retons and groundwater and in general underground wealth. The law regulates the ownership, operation and management of ponds, large lakes, etc.’. Why don't you touch it? You've given it all up. I don't know if we're going home one day and sold. That's where we've arrived. So do you dare, with all the grand proclamations of social goods? Mercy! A litre of water more expensive than a litre of milk. This is what you have been implementing, and when the JRC said it for many years, decades, I would say, you have been making fun of us for graphics, that we have been in danger. That's why you don't. Where is your view that water is socially good? If you're selling everything. You've all taken them out to the hammer, what nature gives to man.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u330	He's making sure it's settled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u331	Read well what you are deciding and not now making speeches to us, not to answer much more. You're giving it all up, you've got it all in the hammer. Don't tell us now. The water in Athens is socially good? How many foreign funds are there? What about somewhere else? So I don't keep going. Key articles that are also not affected, because we will say what is not affected, then we will say what is affected. We have not told you to put an article that individual property is removed in the means of production. That's what the people will do, whether you want it or you're blocking it. The story won't go back. This is done with social revolutions, as has been done in the past for the future. The prerogatives of the Chapter, Article 107. Fifty-seven tax exemptions on shipowners. Well, are you with the people? The others are clean, they say: 'We are with capital'. You never dare to cut off the fifty-seven. Are you with the people? That the 1952 law - if I'm not mistaken - does not affect him to protect foreign investments? Read what you were saying. "This law is colonial," you said. We said it was protection of capital and the interests of capital. Suppose he was a colonist. You keep that law. Article 48. Everything has one section, it's not random. Siege situation. Read what you used to say in old times. But that's not it. What does Article 48 say? In case we have a problem and a problem, what happens? All the rights of the people are suspended. Freedom of expression, opinion, strike, mobilization, demonstration, public meetings, more than three. Remember! All this is forbidden. In other words, it is forbidden for the people to express their opinion in a crisis and I mean war and others. What are you afraid of? Are you afraid of the people? What will the people do? While, on the other hand, you are all 'cuts', because you do not dare put that at this crisis, airports are being charged. Seventeen airports in ‘FRAPORT’. The agreement says you don't even have the right during the war to check them. Food warehouses, drugs, so the people don't get hungry. But knowing the people won't accept these and in such a time, they'll do it on their own against what you're putting them into. So you are forbidden to act on the people and you are not touching anything else. Let's go down. Modernizations that you're doing - notice this I'll say twice and three times - as we used to say to make it easier for class struggle. Why is it over? You and Laskaris. But you've done it for many years. Social partners. Are the partners really the capital workers? Is this a partner working in the third basement with the shipowner? Is this a partner working in the dirt, in terrible conditions and in terrible dirt with the owner who lives where he wants? Social partners, you have incorporated it. The class struggle is over, but class controversies are unresolved. And why don't you accept if you want, as you say, to facilitate what you once said and which you now deny the class struggle, the JRC's proposals? Why don't you remove the restrictions on the strike? Why don't you remove the lock out and much more? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Social rights, the sector. Fraud. It's proclamations. In terms of capital, dependency, and so forth, you are specific. As regards social rights, you are proclamative, as is the case with all the urban constitutions that say that all Greeks have the right to work, to education and to residence. The unemployed have reached 30%. In health, we have the ranches and the residence is coming now and the red loan and it also pays rent to what paid it three times over the bank. Indeed, it is seen as a great social achievement, as you say, the state guarantee of a decent standard of living. What does "reliable" mean? Tell us about it. Does that mean 500 euros, 300 euros for young people, 200 euros, 100 euros as pocket money? What does social right mean to health? Another in the ranch and another in Switzerland and America and in private clinics. And you are now telling us about equal rights and you are literally mocking the world. If they are social goods, all public and free, no business. That's not all. You also have changes in democracy to deepen democracy. In fact, they're reactionary, deep reactionary. What are you doing now with the election of the President of the Republic, who are being expelled from Parliament and with the constructive vote of distrust? Really, I wanted to ask if anyone knows: Who wise found this? Where the hell did he get that thing? We have never heard of a'structural vote of distrust' before. What do you want to do with it? Even if the government does not have a parliamentary majority, even if it is contrary to the popular feeling within capitalism we are talking about, it will remain in the government. Why? To ensure stability. Who facilitates stability? The workers, the people or the urban state? This is your contribution. You try superstitiously - and others celebrate, it's on the bars, the tiles, cheering - to close any cracks that can exploit the popular movement to get conquered and the rest. Finally, you also want to restore the credibility of the political system. Well done, we congratulate you! You want to restore this rotten urban political system, that of barbarity that brought what it brought. You don't even solve mature requests.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u332	Finish, Mr. Pafile, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u333	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. Really, where did the proposal for a law, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, which we had once tabled and which was close to the full separation of States and Church in the previous Constitutional Review? He went to the unclaimed. What was right? Then or today? What has been done two hundred years ago in capitalist states you want to do today. The conclusion, therefore, is this: what you are doing today in fact all of us together - a dancer of SYRIZA, because it is government and not because others would not do it - is to build walls even further, constitutionalised walls to prevent people from claiming. As long as you can squeeze him. Protect capitalist barbarism objectively and beyond intent. But the people will be at the forefront of the walls and prisons you build. And because you say, "When, when?" Know that what time brings does not bring time. Then he will take authority, then there will be popular sovereignty when he takes wealth into his hands. Then there will be the Constitution of the people, the future, the true social justice, freedom, human liberation, and the first article will be written: "The exploitation of human beings is being abolished", with the JRC in the first line, as always, in this struggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u334	Mr Apostolos Vésiropoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Revision of the Constitution is particularly revealing about the real intentions of the government. First of all, the Government of Mr Tsipras does not want and never wanted to be launched on the basis of a national dialogue and a national understanding of a substantial revision of articles in the Constitution. Secondly, what was of interest and interest to Mr Tsipras' government is to narrate the mandate of the next government not only on the issue of constitutional reform, but also in other areas, such as the economy, but also on national issues. It came to the point that some government MPs, but also ministers from the Step of the House, say that what they propose for each revised article also binds the next House that cannot change their content. This innovative theory reveals the attitudes and idiosyncrasies of this government. Those who support this view can explain why the constitutional legislature then refers to the vote of the revised articles in the next House. Why has it foreseen that elections should be held? Because, otherwise, each government would complete the revision of its own government mandate and not have to be made by the next parliament. This provision exists, ladies and gentlemen, because, through elections and through the elections, the citizen's participation in the Constitutional Review process is achieved, because when the citizen votes a party, it means that he consents and approves the party's proposals for the contents of the articles to be revised. Tall letters for the government that she only cares about are to mislead the contents of the Constitutional Review. After all, the views expressed by the government's party rejected them seven opposing constitutionalists who have ruled that the next House, which is revised, is not bound to the contents of the revised provisions of the articles to be voted on by this House. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has once again shown a sense of responsibility in agreeing to the revision of articles, such as Article 32 for the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from parliamentary elections, such as Rule 86 and for the abolition of limitation periods on matters which constitute a criminal liability of ministers and political persons, but also Article 62 for the limitation of parliamentary immunity only for the offences committed in the exercise of parliamentary duties, as well as Article 101a on the establishment of the independent authorities. However, this draft Constitutional Review proposal does not cease to be an inappropriate and inadequate proposal. The Government has refused to include in the revised provisions Article 16 on the establishment and operation of non-state universities. Indeed, some members of the government's majority continue to say that non-state universities are of dubious quality and value. Obviously not all of these people have understood what is happening internationally. In Cyprus, ladies and gentlemen, there is a non-state university, the University of Nicosia, which offers the Postgraduate Medical Program of the University of "Saint George" London, along with its own course of studies, to take high positions of excellence. In Cyprus, too, there are English-language and international programmes. Education and distance education has been strengthened. The universities there, public and private, came to have forty-five thousand students and accounted for 4.8% of the GDP of the Republic of Cyprus. All this, while the first public university in Cyprus was founded in the early 1990s and the authorisation for the operation of the first three non-state universities was granted in 2007. Of these two elements, one can only see how quickly Cyprus has moved forward and how many steps back Greece has taken. The Constitutional Review of the Government serves party purposes once it has not dared to incorporate bold changes in the country's charter such as: granting responsibilities and independent resources for their exercise in self-government by constitutional provision. The recognition of a minimum guaranteed income for each citizen of that country. The introduction of a safe tax environment by prohibiting the retroactive imposition of any burden. Upgrading the framework that ensures the absolute independence of justice and judicial officers, as well as speeding up the administration of justice. All this the government did not want to discuss it, as it did not want to discuss or allow citizens to decide on the revision of Article 16. As he did not want to let people be placed on whether or not he agreed with the Ambassadors' agreement. The reasons were good. He also knew in one and the other that the vast majority of citizens are against it. However, the verdict of citizens no matter what they do will not be able to avoid it. The Greek citizens in the elections will give their answer to this government. If you make the European elections first, you will lose and then you will suffer the absolute collapse in the parliamentary elections. If you are making simultaneous elections and set up four ballots, you will lose to all four. So far it has been the route of this government which has linked its mandate to a painful and unjustified memorandum, to the granting of public property to lenders for ninety years and to unacceptable national concessions. All this is not forgotten by Greek citizens and they are waiting to give you their answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, Mr. Vésiropoulos. Mrs Bakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Revision of the Constitution, as a leading political act of the Republic, has never been carried out in a historical vacuum. The most important constitutions in history gave rise to revolutions and struggles against dictatorial regimes and integrations. Constitutional revisions, as a result, are carried out in a spirit of consensus and do not arise as a donation or wisdom of the legislator, but document and condense interests, social struggles, worthwhile projections. What, therefore, is the proposal to review the Constitution at this juncture? If the 1975 Constitution gave birth to the dual need to consolidate democracy after a seven-year-old dictatorship and to include a seated country in the European family, this proposal to revise the Constitution gives rise to the need to create democratic impulse to neoliberalism which in our country, in the form of monuments, destroyed freedoms and rights, undermined the social state and weakened democratic institutions. Let us call back on the side, but painful, losses which have caused in the first few years of the memoranda: the elimination of Parliament's role, the crisis in the institutions, the dismantling of the political system and a dangerous rise in fascism. The bankruptcy in the economy that imposed the fiscal adjustment programmes, i.e. an unbearable austerity, seems to always mean austerity in democracy. Because programmes that reduce incomes and public expenditures, increase unemployment, deprive the citizens of their sacred and inalienable rights, such as work, housing, insurance, and the dignity guaranteed by a minimum standard of living, cannot guarantee consent or be based on a social contract. Therefore, at the cost of institutional aberrations, small parliamentary coups, condemning the legislative power of the culture as an observer, still appointing technocratic prime minister. The reproach of the "reflecting" of the Qualification Revision of the Constitution in our proposal of the Revision of the Constitution is nothing but the shielding of democracy through a new architecture of the culture, the introduction of institutions of direct democracy, which will of course act not as a substitute but as a reinforcement of representative democracy, empowering the voice of the citizen and the constitutional foundation of social rights and commons. Of course, we are not surprised by your opposition to the constitutional foundation of social rights. And it does not surprise us because by your Chief's mouth you consider social inequality to be a natural situation and you do not have any illusions about a society without inequality. It does not surprise us, because the primary concern for the revised matter was the constitutionalisation of the balanced budgets, that is, the neoliberalisation of the Constitution. We are not surprised that the priority of the economy towards politics, the assignment of policy to technocrats, is a founding term of your ideology and democracy, the state of the municipality, the voice of the citizen, to you seems to be an unbearable populism. Ladies and gentlemen, Marx's remembrance of the rights of the first modern constitutions is known for the use and abuse of freedom and equality. For Marx, freedom and equality became genocide which covered inequality and exploitation relations and their interpretation was exhausted in freedom of trade and equality exclusively as equality. It is also known that Russo's criticism of isology, according to which even the isology, in order not to be an empty letter, presupposes material equality. Equality in a society of deep inequality is a steep one. Therefore, an undeniable condition for democracy and the social state, which are at the heart of our own visions, is in the constitutionally established rights of the typical liberal rule of law to always add a minimum standard of living, necessary and capable, but capable of guaranteeing the dignity of the human person. So social rights, which are included in our proposal for the revision of the Constitution, are prerequisites, are a compass that is gearing towards a long journey towards democratic socialism. Ladies and gentlemen, the constitutional foundation of social rights requires the desire to alleviate and eliminate social inequalities, the treatment of which must in no way be left to charity or to a generalised obligation of the state. The constitutional foundation of universal access to medical care, education, common water and energy, which have been dismantled by the ideological obsession with privatizations and, of course, are not a condition of well-being, but a basic condition of survival, requires that the attempt to rebuild the social state and social justice, the foundation of which is equal to the access of all public goods, regardless of their value and their individual categories. Here, let me make a brief reference, there has been a lot of talk about Article 16. The university, as set out by its founding treaty, what is it? It is the public area of free teaching and research that institutionalizes its administrative autonomy and democratic consultation of the members of the community. What was the generic cause of the first eight centuries ago? It was the preservation and establishment of a public area of uninterrupted research and free thinking, manipulated by the balance of any authority, economic, ecclesiastical, state. Therefore, universities are not technical schools for training and specialization and students, of course, are not customers who buy knowledge from teachers. It does not regulate the invisible hand of the market, cognitive objects and research fields that the university heals. Because scientific research will either be free and unsolved or there will be no. Manipulative research, research feathery of economic use, is a form of oxymomile. In fact, research objects not only are not subject to market laws, but they must also be such that they can be directly questionable. Can we imagine a university from which social sciences and humanitarian sciences are absent, which make speech rhyme and reason for their existence, is the criticism of the existing order of things? Is the hostility and the systematic degradation of these sciences from the time of techeism random? Ladies and gentlemen, I come to social rights. The only right you intend to recognize is that of retribution. Our proposal for Article 22 protects work by guaranteeing the right to equal pay for equal work, which has been annulled by the shameful underpaid, collective bargaining, the right to unilateral recourse by the social partners to arbitration and the principle of more favourable regulation. And if for the friends of the "Sicago boiss" who inspired Pinochet, security other than private insurance is equal to repression, with the walls and ruthless hunting of the stranger who invaded the patronages by infecting them, for us security refers to the right to universal insurance, universal coverage within the framework of a public redistributive system based on the principle of solidarity. Ladies and gentlemen, the lack of democratic legitimacy described by the terms 'post-political','post-democracy', anti-political and anti-democracy in essence lies in the unconditional assignment of the exercise of power, the exercise of politics or the mechanisms of power and technocrats - experts or in uncontrolled economic and political centres that exercise power beyond citizens. The establishment of the referendum by amending paragraph 2 of Article 44 is not relied upon by a nostalgia for ancient Athenian democracy or for its inner revivals, nor attempts - attention - to replace the representative mandate, enshrined in all modern constitutions, but to strengthen it. Because in the present anti-political treaty, which is degenerated into an underhand economy and centres operating beyond and outside the will of the citizen, the public sphere has therefore been degenerated into a pluralist propaganda, outside politics, make news and tires in the eyes of cribs and exiles. Vox populi, vox dei, the general will, which, although v. Russo, is correct but sometimes deceived, may decide with anger rather than with the strength of the best argument. Referendums giving voice and role to a desperate and decommissioned citizen can perform a pedagogical role, train in participatory democracy and in public consultation, in the right use of the word and therefore strengthen democracy. I now come to the famous Article 86 in which everyone, I think, has to agree. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. Look, the scandal epidemic that inhabited our country and which was one of the domestic causes of the Greek tragedy, a tragedy that vented a quarter of our national wealth, condemned the poverty of Greek society and succumbed to the future of younger generations, constitutes a if not reversed, a twisted reading of the invisible hand. Because if the invisible hand of the economy transforms, Smith told us, the private interest in public good, the visible hand of a system has infiltrated public life by transforming state functions and public office into corruption chambers and private interest means. This must therefore be stopped and there must be institutional safeguards in place so that these phenomena do not reappear. I am closing down with the regulation of Article 3, which is why a great deal has been said. Never did our country have an anti-circumcision tradition, never was baptized in the banquets of Enlightenment and in the pretexts of modernity imported. In our country that has recently resurrected national wisdom and nation is not defined as a community that participates in common values or the nation of citizens that inherited us in the long 18th century and the great new internal revolutions that were born and the first constitutions, but as the omens, the homogeneous religion, the homo-linguistic in whose name, you know, crimes and exclusions were committed, divided society and incubated the snake's egg. So let the review process finish what was left unfinished the enlightenment that passed us. Let us establish the distinctiveness of the Church - State - and let us even now establish a state of neutral religion that will apply the Caesar, the Caesar, the God of God, and does not observe the phenomenon of a religious state or of a clergy that politicises and intervenes either in the contents of courses or in foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen, in a climate of consensus, mutual respect and trust, as the rules of democracy stress, let us dare to take some enlightenment on the basis not of the small but of the great picture that is not favourable. Unfortunately, Europe is unsuccessfully ageing. She has already lost a member and is threatened with other mutilations and it seems that she has recently decided to take down the light switch and sink into darkness. And we know, unfortunately, who are trying to take the political advantage of the crisis, the demolition of the social state of the democratic deficit. The democratic deficit created by the priority of the economy towards politics, the sight of the markets as a post-immigrant mourning that is being poured over our heads by defining our lives, but also the decision-making in some traditional climatic denominations of citizens will not be healed by the removal of democracy, nor will it be heated by nationalist cries - wall enclosures, but only by more democracy. That's what we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u338	Mr Cremastino has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u339	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to Article 38(2) of the Constitution, which refers to the replacement of the Prime Minister when there are good health reasons and cannot carry out his duties. The truth is, many of my fellow Members have said 'But why? After the Constitution says that when the Prime Minister cannot perform his duties, then the parliamentary group appoints another Prime Minister." And even a serious newspaper and a serious columnist dedicated me to a piece by telling about this thing. Of course, at first sight it sounds reasonable. But, in fact, this can never be done. I, for example, mentioned my own experience, the poor experience, with the case at the time of Onassisios and Andrew Papandreou, where in essence the President of the Republic asked doctors to give a certificate that the Prime Minister was unable to carry out his duties. The leader at that time of the opposition, Mr Everett, also addressed the same request, if you like, by a personal letter sent to me, which will be at the offices of the New Democracy. And, of course, the doctors refused to issue a certificate that the Prime Minister was unable to carry out his duties, because it was simply not the doctors who wanted to take that responsibility. Why did they say that one in a million possibilities for the Prime Minister to come back, we will replace him? So, what happened? The Prime Minister a month and a half later in the intensive unit met, left the intensive unit and resigned after 15 days. If the doctors had given this opinion - which they did not give and well did not give it, and I hope the doctors will never give it - what would happen? He would have been replaced by the Prime Minister before Christmas, he would have woken up in January, told him that you are not a Prime Minister and that he would have been the leader of PASOK, because he had not resigned. These things aren't that simple. So let us not simplify them, and let us not say, 'You know, the doctors will give an opinion'. Doctors don't take responsibility for this. I have brought you a classic example of it. Therefore, we need to find a provision which we are about to operate as the American constitution operates, which is presiding. We don't have a presidential term, we have a prime minister. In any case, however, democracy cannot be left to the hands of doctors who are rightfully unable to take such responsibility. I have to say another thing: if the situation of Andreas Papandreou was extended and what happened and January would have gone away, what would have happened? The Imias would come here somewhere in mid-January, and there would be no Prime Minister. The Prime Minister would be in the unit. Then both the late Miltiadis and the President of the Republic and all had their hopes for doctors. The doctors didn't give any certificate and the country was paralyzed. So, isn't that a matter that needs to be considered by all of us? So, on the basis of the facts - and only the facts - I made this proposal, which I would ask you to see seriously and not partisanly, because it has given me an impression that no New Democracy Member has signed. I don't understand why. Miltiadis Evert himself was asking for this thing. And I am well aware that his close colleagues are aware of it, many of whom are now in top positions in our democratic city. I don't understand why. It is neither party nor has any other purpose. I would therefore like to ask everyone to look at this issue objectively and find the right way to unlock such a situation, if you like, which at least at the time was a negative point for the country's political life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr. Kremastino. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th Agrinio High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kelles has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u341	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, forty-five years after post-Culture we should have reached concrete guidelines for a constitutional review aimed at revising the state and supporting the Greek society, setting as objectives the necessary reforms in education, the economy, public administration and justice. Instead, the Government of SYRIZA - willingly brought the constitutional review into line with a number of proposals, which not only do not meet the above objectives, but obviously serve electoral purposes. As with the scourge of the Ambassadors, you are opposed to the religious beliefs of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. With Article 3, you seek the separation of Church - State and neutral religion. What neutral religion? Religious freedom is fully enshrined in Article 13 of the Constitution and guarantees equality of religions. Of course, all of this is accompanied by your permanent motto: whoever has a religious and national conscience is a far right or a fascist. So here we are telling you the first great 'no'. No change in Article 3, no change in the regime of clergymen. The Orthodox Church will remain a pillar of the nation. I come to the other pillar of the nation, the Greek family. You propose the revision of Article 21(1) by removing the layout that determines the family as the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation. Why? So much is the conscience of nationality bothering you? Why don't you support the Greek family? Why are you messing with polytexts and tritecuses? Do you deny Greece's demographic problem? Your target is obvious. Impair national and religious conscience. After all, you have also anticipated the counterfeiting of history and the revision of school books and maps. Today with the Skopje, tomorrow who knows? Our Northcontinental brothers are persecuted by the Rama government of all kinds so that they can be forced to leave their homes. Of course, some of you don't see Northern Continent, but southern Albania. Your weakness with regard to the word "North", is well known. "North Cyprus", "North Epirus", "North Macedonia".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u342	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u343	Please, ladies and gentlemen, do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u344	Moreover, in the same article, you provide for public control of electricity and social distribution networks and social goods. I ask you: Who are you kidding? Didn't you transfer the public property, Mr. Dousina, to see that you've been protesting for a hundred years in the foreign administration of the Overseas Department?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Kelles, it's a warm request. Don't mention yourself personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u346	Yes, Mr. President. Don't you now promote PPC's privatisation? Don't you? I come to two other places where you're not only mocking, but you're mocking the world. You plan to hold a referendum with five hundred thousand or one million citizens' requests. Here, of course, we're not just laughing. You are the one who humiliated the concept of referendum worldwide. Didn't you do 'no', 'yes'? And hypocrisy has its limits, ladies and gentlemen. On the other hand, our proposal lies, a constitutional review for a state that is modern, competitive and effective. I'm coming to Article 16. As our President, Mr Mitsotakis, has said, everything is a matter of education. We are proposing self-sufficiency and support, support for public universities and we are in favour of establishing private and non-profit universities. Finally, we are supplementing the second decade of the 21st century and the country must align itself with the international and European environment. You need to understand the benefits that private and non-profit universities will have for the economy and development under the supervision of an independent authority. Our children will have more choices and will stay in Greece without "haemorrhage" toward the outside. Our country can be converted into an interregional training centre, attracting scientists from every corner of the Mediterranean, Europe and Eurasia. It is time to take a big step forward, addressing, among other things, the 'brain drain' and all its consequences. At the same time, our proposal contains strong guarantees for strengthening rural development and liberalising economic activity, together with support for the socially weaker ones. We are proposing the revision of Article 24 in order to tackle climate change and to ensure water resources. This is two fronts, with which our farmers are constantly confronted, particularly in Thessaly and in Larissa. At the same time, we are promoting the use of renewable energy sources which are an important instrument for the development of the country. In Article 106 we are proposing that economic freedom and undistorted competition be guaranteed in order to support entrepreneurship and make our country a safe investment destination. At the same time, we ensure state intervention in the light of social justice and balanced development, while proposing the constitutional provision for minimum guaranteed income and ensuring decent living conditions for all citizens. We dare and move forward. As far as the administration and the political system are concerned? Starting at the top, we are proposing the stability of the electoral cycle and of the governments, as well as the right to vote on the emigrants. We also provide for the provision of principles of good legislation and codification of legislation. We propose the constitutional safeguarding of "DENMARKING", and we attach particular importance to e-government. We also anticipate the establishment of a National Security Council, as it exists in all the world's advanced countries. Finally, among other things, we are proposing reforms in justice. We are starting with the permanent functioning of the Supreme Special Court and the arrangements for speeding up justice through prior judiciary and the setting up of electronic technologies. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy today brings together a draft constitutional review that ensures the foundations for national progressive reconstruction, which will enable the Greek state to become stronger and more competitive, in line with international standards. We have two hundred years after national rebirth, to leave party spectacles and micro-political interests aside and to respond to the vision of the new generations. It is the ultimate task of us to deliver to our children a Greek with a charter that guarantees their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u347	Next speaker, Mr Kamatos, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u348	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only dwell on an article and on the basis of time, in Article 101, because some proposals have been made. The title of the proposal is 'Strengthening island policy', which we will see if the proposal contributes to upgrading or deterioration. Article 101 on this subject states: 'The joint legislator and the Administration, when acting in regulations, have an obligation to take into account the particular conditions of mountain and island regions, while ensuring their development'. Here, then, we have proposals which say that we need to define development and call it 'administrative','social' and 'economic'. This, in my view, is wrong and I totally disagree. The legislator quite rightly has the word 'development', because development must be holistic, it must be the whole, it must be anthropocentric. When we start and give her surnames and identify them and say 'administrative','social', 'economic', then we could say 'cultural' and 'cultural'. And because we want to give the various policies that we are characterising, because of the distortions that have suffered, we are beginning to say sustainable development, sustainable development, green and blue. Silver's been out lately. If I had time, I'd explain what it is. The legislator, therefore, quite rightly puts the word "development" without specifying why it degrades and does not upgrade the concept of growth. You know, the problem is not what the Constitution provides for, because we also have a legislative framework which is very serious and rich. The problem is how we apply this framework for island policy. In this way, it will be upgraded rather than amended by the specific amendment of the article. Very briefly, I would like to refer to this institutional framework, the legislative framework that we have. First of all, it's the national one. Apart from this article 101, which I have read to you, there is also Article 106(1), which says: "The administration..." - etc. '... take the necessary measures to exploit the sources of national wealth from the atmosphere and underground deposits, to promote regional development and to promote, in particular, the economy of mountainous, island and border regions'. There is also Law 4150, which states - and I quote, because some dispute that this legislation exists or ignores it - the following: "Any draft law, addition or amendment, as well as a regulatory decision of major economic or social importance, is accompanied by an analysis of the consequences, regulations, including documentation of compliance with the principles set out in the above Articles and the possible consequences for the economic, social and environmental development of the islands. In the latter case, specific documentation and evaluation is required and the previous opinion of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy shall be sought to this end.’ But that is something we are not doing. I don't know if you know what he's saying. It says that every bill that comes must pass and have a memo from the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy. Now we have a State Department. An analysis of the consequences and arrangements shall be submitted, together with the draft provisions, to the Office for Good Legislation referred to in Article 14. The same law also provides for the creation of an island policy board. Again in another article of the same law it is planned to establish a research institute for island policy. All this and much still exists in the national context. However, let me make a reference to the European institutional framework that exists. First of all, I do not know how many people know that when we entered the EEC in 1981 this entry was not accompanied by any provision to highlight the specific problems of the islands. Greece then failed to introduce any special institutional care, while the opposite was with Denmark, Ireland, the United Kingdom and then Spain and Portugal, which took precedence over and achieved special conditions for adapting to their islands, which in many cases are overseas. Even in the Maastricht Treaty, we have succeeded in establishing our islands, although it refers to the island regions of France, Spain and Portugal. The Maastricht Treaty refers to this. There is, however, Article 158 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which speaks of the care to be taken on the islands, Article 174 of the Treaty of Lisbon, which talks about strengthening the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the various regions and expressly refers to island, cross-border and mountain regions. There is also the euro constitution where Article 220 speaks of economic cohesion and makes special reference to the islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. There is a large, rich institutional framework, but I will stop because the time is running out. There are, therefore, various articles in the European Constitution, which make special reference to island regions. To end with the European Parliament resolution of 4 February 2016 on the specific situation of the islands. Here, if you will see, there is a decision by the European Parliament to the committee, which says what it should take into account and what it should do for the islands. It motivates the committee to give a clear definition of the form of geographical, demographic, etc. with a reference to the Lisbon article. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he is prepared to give us a reply. Calls on the committee to report etc. Recognises the importance of providing support to address the significant trend towards declining populations in island areas, etc. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member resuming the bell is ringing again.]] It asks the committee to draw up - and I conclude, Mr President - an in-depth study - an analysis of the extra costs of life in island regions in terms of the transport system for persons and goods. And here we came and made the metaphor equivalent. To conclude, however - I repeat - we must use this decision of the European Parliament, we must demand that these transfers be classified as 'general economic interest', so that they can be subsidized - at the moment, because they cannot be subsidized, and we must also resolve the coastline. With regard to the time and time of colleagues, Mr President, I shall stop. But there is a great institutional framework that enables us to develop our island policy. And the problem is not the article of the Constitution, which is simple but clear and clear. I think that this proposal has become more like a cymbal arrogance, in order to create a noise and, in this respect, it has been a good one, because it has given us the opportunity to mention these few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u349	Mr Aygeakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u350	Mr President, the time is 16 a.m. and we have not taken the ballot. Are they cooking it, Mr. President? What are they doing with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u351	I'll ask and tell you, Mr. Loverdo. I can't know. With what you do all the time, you remind me of the VAR football that the referee asks for VAR. You're always making this move. Here, Mr. Ausgeakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u352	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel very honoured, but also a great responsibility to participate today in the debate on the Constitutional Review, in the debate on the change of the Charter of our country. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Constitution requires broader consent, but also compositions. Unfortunately, however, the government and this top institutional process are dealing with it by working, by communicating trik and, above all, by micro-political purposes. Instead of cultivating from the start a climate of consensus systematically and methodically, it divides society and, of course, Parliament is also trying. The government has chosen this debate to take place, when the pre-election period has already begun, just about a hundred days before the elections. Let us remind you here that since 25 July 2016, more than two and a half years ago, you have announced - by lighting, in fact, red Parliament - a folk - as you said at the time - consultation on a constitutional review. For two and a half years this consultation was forgotten and you remembered it again last November, a few months before the elections. And within two months, seized, you want the process to be completed. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, unfortunately you are not interested in the effective revision of the Constitution. Others are your goals. You are using the constitutional review as a pretext to get away from the harsh reality, which your policies have brought to Greek citizens: burdening all Greeks with unbearable taxes and contributions, two irresponsible memoranda and heavy commitments for many years, attempting to manipulate justice, institutional diversion, national defeats in major foreign policy issues, such as the Ambassadors' Agreement, Turkish provocation and, of course, switching the debate from the scandals of the government, which reveal one behind the other. But whatever you do, citizens are experiencing the results of your disastrous policy. Citizens will answer and decide by their vote in the next national election or even in the European elections. They will decide what will be the next Review House and what should be changed in the Constitution and in what direction. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy's proposal for constitutional review is bold, progressive, but also broad. It includes the suggestion of a review in fifty-nine articles and is consistent with values and principles of our prolongation and of the Parliamentary Republic. It is a proposal that encourages development, promotes evaluation, highlights dignity, stimulates solidarity and, above all, strengthens credibility. Since this proposal is adopted, our country will indeed have a new constitution for a new Greece. The 1975 Constitution laid the foundations for a long period of political normality and stability and stable democracy. However, forty-four years later, the time has come for a bold reassessment. Our aim is for the Constitution to go hand in hand with the modern needs of our country in the economy, in administration, in justice, in education, in the environment, in development, everywhere. We are putting forward our own comprehensive proposal, which is based on three main axes. First of all, political stability and the effective functioning of the institutions, which includes the continuity and effectiveness of the state, the separation of powers - which disturbs you - Parliament's strengthening, the shielding of justice, the limitation of the reasons for the early dismantling of the Parliament, so that there is a stable electoral cycle. Also, with the revision of Rule 32, the election of the President of the Republic is completely disconnected by the early dismantling of the Parliament and, of course, the holding of national elections. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you put the masks on this issue too. You have said that you will be voting against your own proposal for Article 32. One more government fiasco, which is a confession that you are using the review of micro-party games. It's a confession you'll lose the next election. And it is a confession that next government will be the New Democracy government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. And you want to put on more triples. You're in panic, and, unfortunately, you're self-meaning. The second axis of our proposal concerns economic stability and development prospects. Mechanisms to prevent the country's financial derailment are established in the Constitution. The budgets of the State must be balanced or comply with the maximum allowable budgetary deficit, subject to conditions. Healthy competition is thus underpinned by entrepreneurship, while taxes and other charges are imposed only on the future and do not have retroactive effect. At the same time, the environment is protected with modern tools, with rational, spatial and environmental planning and protection from climate change is much clearer and intense. In addition, local government acquires own resources, as well as accountability mechanisms. Its budgets must ensure a transparent budgetary balance. Finally, education is being upgraded, while in addition to the full autonomy of the public HEIs, we propose that Article 16 should be changed and that private, non-State universities under the supervision of an independent high prestige authority should finally function in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the state must guarantee quality public higher education, giving everyone opportunities. At the same time, it must allow what is happening throughout the world, the functioning of private, non-profit institutions. It is time for our children to leave for study abroad, give them more opportunities for study in Greece and their families not to be charged with unbearable expenses. Greece can become a educational centre throughout the Mediterranean, to exploit the important scientific potential within and outside Greece, to provide substantial revenues from thousands of foreign students who will study in our country. Public opinion is against you in particular on this matter. Over the past twenty years, the need for non-state universities has grown in society. The world goes ahead and we, unfortunately, follow as a country by asthma. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All countries worldwide allow non-state universities to function. The last countries banned - please note - are North Korea, Cuba, Bhutan and Greece. In the last decade, however, both North Korea and Bhutan and Cuba have allowed private universities to operate. The change in Article 16 requires society, education, the economy, the future of our children and tomorrow. We're sending our children abroad for studies. Businesses and the public are recruiting private university graduates from abroad, from America, from England, France, and even Bulgaria. What are we talking about? We tell them not to operate in Greece, but to accept their degrees. We invite you to leave the ostrich and see the reality. We invite you to leave darkness and follow progress and light. Finally, who is progressive and who is clinging to antiquated perceptions, I think everyone understands it. We invite you to leave your ideological obsessions behind on such an important issue and to listen to society, young children and their families, our young scientists and academics who are abroad. Cyprus has done this. It is an example to be imitated. I shall make a reference to the third axis, and I shall conclude, Mr President. The third axis of our proposal concerns social solidarity and equal opportunities, where it strengthens civil society and creates conditions of social mobility and prosperity for all. It introduces minimum guaranteed income, guarantees the right of citizens to safety and ensures access for everyone to health, education and culture. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to address the question of relations between the Church and State. We are clear and clear. Article 3 does not require revision. Religious neutrality is fully and clearly guaranteed in Article 13 of the Constitution, which regulates freedom of religious conscience and equal treatment of all religions by the state. We defend the protection of religious freedom, while respecting our history and our culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u353	Thank you. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr President. In advance, I will ask for your tolerance for too little. The process of reviewing a constitution, ladies and gentlemen, has always been an essential attempt to establish consensual processes and common positions, to strengthen democratic institutions and to guarantee the rights of citizens. That is why the major revisions initiated and completed by the PASOK governments were consultative, consensual and corresponding to the needs of the Constitution's modernisation. In any case, however, they were not revisions aimed at the minimum common denominator, the exacerbation of political confrontation, the alteration of the institutions and the strict character of the Constitution or the micro-party conspiracy of elections, the exacerbation of the dividing lines and the division of citizens. This review procedure was - you will allow me - to be of a different nature. It started from the then majority of SYRIZA - ANEL as a political response to what it called in its proposal "the post-democratic treaty" and, in fact, called into question the unifying functioning of the Constitution, as was said by Aristoulou Manesis, which does not take away, but settle and mitigate the contradictions within a democracy, forming a symbol of common destiny of the citizens. The concept alone of the 'trans-democratic treaty' mentioned in the government's proposal attempted to link the Constitution to the crisis, to use it as a tool for changing the political agenda and to show it through the revision process new - supposedly - break-up performances with the past. No post-democratic treaty exists today and, obviously, the Constitution is not responsible for the crisis, which the chronic pathogens led to and the lack of awareness of the real needs of the economy and the country before, but also during the crisis. Today, the need to modernise the Constitution is limited to a small measure of consensus, which may ultimately be exhausted by the responsibility of the political staff and the election of the President of the Republic. This consensus does not extend - Mr Loverdes told you - on matters relating to the real lives of citizens, such as the need for greater budgetary protection and development, the protection of a stable financial and investment environment, the liberalisation of dynamic education in the new responsibilities for local and regional government. In many of the above needs, this revision does not seem to respond. On the contrary, the Government by mouth of the rapporteur-general has linked the constitutional review to the return to normality and to the upgrading of the country's international image, and has defined the return to normality as the intersection with the past and the pathogens that caused the crisis. So let's see what the reality of this normality is and how it affected the review. The revision started by the Government as a subject of convenings and informal committees, without a substantial ending, plunging it into political dismantling and, above all, to the indifference of a large part of the citizens. The process of this Review then went into inertia and silence, while at the same time in Parliament the construction of the prosecution of political opponents was under way by the 'NOVARTIS' case. However, it was evolving with the covert of real corruption in the field of pharmaceutical companies, with slow judicial investigations that two years have now not produced any results. At the same time, when the government was disfellowshiping for the honour of the political world and the revision of Article 86, top government ministers were hiding behind what was shameful in other article 86 of the political cover. They invoked it to escape judicial investigation and enjoy ministerial immunity. Even yesterday you voted for Mr. Kammenos. Also, during the same period of pregnancy of this Review, the Prime Minister called the judiciary 'legal obstacles', 'institutional obstacles' and 'barbards', where his Government had to exceed. Ministers threatened and manipulated judiciary officers, while the latter were trying to protect themselves, publicly denounced also in European bodies for extortion and pressure from strong political actors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Finally, the review process comes to plenary in the wake of the relaxation of parliamentary procedures, in the middle of the Parliament and the political system by some MEPs and ministers of short-term political use, with pictures and expressions of great well-being and a discount on the functioning of the institutions of democracy. However, the government does not link them to the basic pathogens of the political system, but is aware of them as a framework for action which is defined by a so-called progressive review, and even a revision in which, as you said today, the House will, as you believe, commit, the direction to be followed by the House of Reform. The reform system, which establishes the current Constitution under Article 110, is based on a clear distribution of reform powers between the two successive Vultures contributing to the Revision of the Constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One or a half minutes, Mr President, I will need it. I won't ask any more. This system is based on a distinction between finding that certain constitutional provisions, which belong to the first Parliament, are necessary, and the decision to determine the content of the revised provisions, which belongs to the second Parliament, which is why it is called a revision. Today, we are deciding whether a revision should be made and what constitutional provisions should be revised. After the parliamentary elections are held, the next Parliament will decide to dominate the new content of the revised provisions. The upcoming election defeat of SYRIZA, which the ruling party seems to prosecute, does not mean that another article 110 of the Constitution should be invented, so that the now-insecure government-insecure majority that now finds itself in apparent disharmony to the people's sense, commits the decisions of the revised parliament. So we repeat once again that the only commitment of the House, the next to come from the elections, is on the subject, but not on the content of the provisions that will be revised. Anything that gets into the first House's review decision on this direction or the content of the revised provisions cannot commit to the House. That is why we are proposing that under no circumstances should the articles to be voted on exceed a majority of seventy-nine, in the case of Members, so that the next Parliament, the next majority, whatever it may be, cannot unilaterally shape the content of the constitutional provisions. That is what the Constitution says, that means 'consensus', that means 'consultation', that is 'democracy'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u355	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-four students and students and three educational sessions from Denmark and Agios Dominikos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Sevastakis has the floor, strictly for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u356	Only seven minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u357	What can we do? You're professors. You can in less time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u358	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u359	Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u360	You were more generous with Mr. Papatheodorou, who added...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u361	What am I supposed to do? Mr Papatheodorou and Mr Aygeakis are more enjoyable in the Bureau. Here, you have the floor. Let's get started.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u362	Thank you very much. Although today and yesterday it seems to be a discussion outside of immediate news, it is very interesting, not academic or theoretical. I think it is interesting, because it condensates and is very clear about the ideological divisions that run the Greek political scene, and which are supposed to echo the urges, the moods, the attitudes of society, if we assume that the political scene is the expressor, the straightforward expression of these social momentum. Therefore, even though the debate has evidence of disagreement, I think it also contributes to the political reflection and understanding of a size, which policy has usually thrown it out of its grammar and syntax, and which is the size of time, the element of macroscopy. I will remain in a part of the SYRIZA Members' proposal, which is the analogous system, which is the welfare of the Prime Minister to be a Member, that is to say, strengthening the parliamentary identity of the first citizen. He releases the President of the Republic from overthrowing the parliamentary order with his incomplete election, which leads the parties to elections. It suggests self-government reform with proportional characteristics, and at the end I would also put the famous retreat of Article 86, which simulates the responsibility of the political executive, the Minister and the citizen. All these elements are, in my view, inconsistent with an internal approach such as that which makes very reasonable the argument that the House proposed must be in touch with the revision, that the two moments, the electoral procedure which emerges from the House and the electoral procedure under which the revised House emerges, this long part of time in which political debate is condensed must be linked, it must be linked, it must define, ensure that the regulations are put in place and it must be over-determined. This special quality of reading political time I am very much interested in, apart from symptomology, in addition to the mortal association of powers and the technical assembly. It is not Parliamentary assemblies to have a symptomical power and we are taking long-term regulations. Contrary to this view, which I think has a subconscious long time, there is another view of the New Democracy, which is completely inconsistent with the approach of the problems. The New Democracy is proposing a great deal of changes in many articles and with an openness in the direction of change. It therefore essentially proposes the possibility of re-write the Constitution at a later stage where it will have another political connection. It is a little mortal and short-sighted - I think - such an approach which contradicts what I consider to be the political subconscious subconscious of the New Democracy. It proposes a change in Article 53, trying to define stable periods of elections. Steady periods of elections are built not technically, but through consultation, i.e. through the analogue system that makes connections easily, not hegemonic. Because that is the dominant cultural view of the Greek people. The Greek people have a conception of relativism: small powers, a small premium, no structural, blind hegemony parties. This element must be received by the Constitutional Review. Speaking before and with prescribers, they basically accept that they have ideological directions. Every constitutional revision has its ideological directions. It has underneath ideology, and the origin of ideology is the concepts of the social body. With these considerations, I think that the concern of making a parliamentary treaty more proportional, of providing for a prime minister who will certainly have been put to the vote, of unbundling the President of the Republic as a policy-making system that will be independent of parliamentary ties and finally of bringing the parliamentary extremist to confirm responsibility with the lifting of Article 86, I think it is a very creative direction. I mean, something I don't know if technically the right thing to do. I would like more consultation time. In any case, the Minutes of these two-day discussions will have a very important teaching character, we will be able to revert and see some excellent positions that have been scattered and which are supposed to be the epitome of our culture and our cultural treaty, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u363	Mr Javarras has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mr President, with all the rigour you are addressing me. I would like to say that in the course of the work of the committee which worked out the proposals put forward there was a fruitful dialogue, a quality dialogue, I would say a high-level dialogue, which, in general terms, touched moments of parliamentarianism in an old era where everyone was in the parliamentary process with an obligation, duty to contribute to compositions and to reject arguments with arguments. In particular, I would like to point out the very positive presence of Mr Dousina, Mrs Sis Anagnostopoulos, Mr Baltas, for our part, of the Members of the New Democracy, as well as of the KINAL side, with the enthusiastic presence of the Professor, Mr Venizelos, where we were given the opportunity to work together and end up in very good compositions, of course, maintaining the right of his ideological personality on behalf of everyone. All this under the fair address of the Bureau, which we must indeed honour in the face of President Paradise and in the face of Vice-President Tragakis, as well as the person of Mr Papatheodorou. But this climate will allow me to say, Mr President, that it was unfortunately broken out this morning, when one of the issues that the committee had dealt with in the best way - and I am referring to the question of the bindingity of the guidelines proposed by the House by the revised House - received a special treatment intended to counter scientific knowledge with political will. The scientific knowledge presented by all those involved in this debate this morning, but also in a very plural way, was exposed during the work of the parliamentary committee, precisely the scientific knowledge that we have followed since 1993 in various variations. There was the creation of a so-called 'interventional debate' - and at the end of the day there was a free exchange of opinions - to deal with the political will of the majority. In other words, an issue of scientific validity, an assessment of rebellious opinions at the level of the scientific community, we decided to resolve it using majority power. Here too, you will allow me to express a few views on this very specific issue of the parliamentary phenomenon, which is doomed to see dialogues being developed, but we must all ensure that they are creative. Because if in the parliamentary process what Alexis de Tokville was for the first time in this monumental work on democracy in America, which was published around 1850, had characterised it as "the tyranny of the majority", you realise that such honest exchanges of views as those prevailing in the committee were condemned to remain unaffected and not gather the praise of the municipality and the wise, but always fueling petty negative comments against the parliamentary system, such comments as another politicist, Carl Smith, who was indifferent to the parliamentary phenomenon because of such phenomena, which did not respect the regularity, which did not respect the legitimacy, but were open to the fields of the informal procedure, the normal procedure, which was imposed by the political will and the power of the majority. In this very dimension, there was another wise man, Hans Kelsen, who was fighting for democracy. It is precisely this attitude that we have to take, and we must respect it because it is a deep foundation for legalising any parliamentary procedure that is democratic legitimacy, but it is also constitutional legitimacy. That is why one of the top proposals made by the New Democracy is to heal, with a specific review proposal, this phenomenon which is constantly being observed during Parliament's work at the legislative level. In its legislative function, therefore, we are all aware that we are adopting solid anti-constitutional laws. In fact, provisions that come at the very last moment in the form of the amendment are fleeing or evading control of the Scientific Committee and then administrative courts, such as the Council of State, are creating uncertainty both at the financial level and at the legal level. Indeed, insecurity of law, I would say it. We cannot therefore ask that we be in the system of predictable democracy, predictable legality, predictable justice, if we do not, by a concrete proposal, obtain the question of the preventive and statutory control of the constitutional legitimacy of the laws produced. Unfortunately, the inability, to date, of Parliament to resort to the Revision of the Constitution, by establishing a constitutional court, has led us to propose the permanentisation of the Supreme Special Court which has exactly the power of pre-critical scrutiny with opinions and of the general control of the constitutionality of the laws passed by the House. Unfortunately, however, you, ladies and gentlemen, were most fascinated by the opportunity and the opportunity to incorporate into the current constitutional text some references that have to do more with the ideology in favour of which you are fighting, which have to do more with the enemy you name on the face of the New Democracy as a guardian of any kind called neoliberalism or extreme right-wing populism. This, unfortunately, is something that doesn't make you so worthy of praise. You have reached the point of creating the impression that you have the Civic Opposition, not as a force of democracy, of control and criticism, but as a party that prevents your progress towards maintaining power and democracy in the form of the country's governance. I therefore believe that - even at the moment - we should stop thinking about a parliamentary wickedness which does not fit in the history of this House and we should all take care of any arrangements and suggestions that they are responding to the challenges of times and give solutions to the acute problems that following the economic crisis and the crisis of the institutions that we have experienced, are necessary to deal with the most appropriate treatment. It is precisely at this level that we must all, if we consider that a number of proposals by the political opponent are worthy, support them, without instruction, without any other comments which do not have the intention of expressing the will of this House for the exercise of the powers conferred on it by Article 110 of the Constitution, which is no other than a finding of the need to revise these provisions. They are provisions such as Article 32, such as Article 86, such as Article 62, which we have common references, we have common ways and our views may differ in terms of the content of the provision. Let this be left for the next Parliament, for this House that is entitled to deal with and decide anything about the review - because this is the revision House and because in it the Greek people will, in their verdict, have the task of carrying out this important task - without resorting to constructions such as the one that is supposedly accepted by the ad hoc Supreme Special Court, which I developed this morning, supposedly the next Parliament is the mandate of this Parliament. There is no case at all, but there is no possibility of a mandate being established between two Vultures who have come out of two different verdicts, which are equal, which are equal and which each one has a distinct competence. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u365	You're excellent, Mr. Javarra. Because you speak of breasts you can make the economy of conversation. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-four students and students and three fellow professors from the 4th Agrinio Gymnasio (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] As I will shortly call the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, I would like to say the following about the procedure. Immediately after that, the Secretary-General of the KKE, Mr. Koutsoubas, and the President of the LtG, Mr. Mitsotakis, have asked for the floor. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr President. The Constitution is the central text, the nuclear legislation that safeguards popular sovereignty and parliamentaryism and from which the binding principles and values which make up the very democratic organisation of the state, the rule of law and social protection and solidarity are derived. His review is therefore a top institutional process of parliamentary democracy. And I think that from the very first moment we have seen her as such, as our intention to review the constitution is not a last-minute intention, but was well-meaning in election and immediately after the elections to the government's programme statements. It was a process that we started with a wide-ranging dialogue, we pursued it, we did not confine it to the debate in Parliament. On the contrary, however, we tried to open it in society itself, in collective bodies, in social organizations, in productive forces, in diverse movements. In other words, we have tried not to leave it to the exclusive competence of specialists and constitutionalists, which we certainly do not underestimate, because they too have to play their special role on the basis of their technical knowledge. Above all, however, we have tried not to limit this debate to a procedure which will only concern civilian staff, and that is why the proposal, which we have tabled and which we are debating today, does not merely reflect the mood for a technical settlement. On the other hand, I would say that it reflects the will for changes and for reforms that express and justify demands, movements, in our assessment of majority quests. At the same time, it also takes into account the treaty of the crisis, the lessons of recent years, the ever-changing international environment, but also the current challenges facing parliamentarianism from the ever-associated extra-institutional, extra-constitutional powers, because the technologies of discipline of modern societies and the technologies of circumventing the rules of democracy and popular will are constantly evolving in a complex and complex era, at the time of economic globalisation. And it is precisely for this reason that our proposal stems from the need to strengthen Parliament as an institution and a cave and a core of democracy, but also a strengthening of the democratically elected government, the one that takes the vote of confidence of the elected representatives of the Greek people, the representatives of the Greek people precisely to those powers that are many in our day, which are not directly related to what we call popular sovereignty: independent authorities, supranational organisations, international rating agencies and I could list many others here. Strengthening Parliament and the elected government, which is also the first axis of our proposal, is achieved by a combination of changes that create conditions for the consolidation of political stability, but also conditions for four-year electoral cycles. So soon, I would like to repeat these proposals concerning this first axis of the reform, which we are proposing. Firstly, to guarantee the so-called constructive vote of distrust, the institution which imposes the simultaneous vote of a new Prime Minister as a precondition for accepting the motion of censure against the government. In this way we seek to normalise the electoral cycle, to have stable governments, and let them be called by you governments that take the vote of confidence of Parliament, the elected representatives of the people, as 'curly governments'. I think, however, that this is one of the necessary conditions for political confidence between us on the rules of political game, otherwise we are confessing to political stability and electoral circles, which must be completed. The second proposal concerns the disconnection of the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the House in exactly the same direction, so that the parliamentary circle is not affected by the failure to reach a consensus between the political forces. The third proposal on the first axis concerns the direct election of the President of the Republic by the people only if the exhaustive procedure for creating consensus within Parliament fails, i.e. if this procedure fails to ensure an eighty-eight-vocal majority vote in seven successive votes. And I believe that this proposal is wise, since it is in fact also a strong incentive, a strong moral and political pressure on the governments and oppositions involved, on the parties that make up Parliament, in order to reach consensus on the face of the President of the Republic, because the person of the President of the Republic must express the whole of the nation and the Greek people. And, of course, this proposal runs counter to the proposal, which, in other words, was tabled during the debate on the revision, on the part of the New Democracy, which speaks of a hundred and fifty Members of the President of the Republic, in the event that the consensus procedure in the first two votes proves inappropriate, because the presidential election is thus converted into appointing by a majority of the 50 Members of Parliament, the government in question. The fourth point again concerns the duty of the Prime Minister of the country to be elected MP so that the country's keys are not handed over to any technocratic Prime Minister, as important and excellent as it is, because we now have the experience of the crisis, we know that the Prime Ministers of the country should be accounted for to the Greek people and not to other centres of power. And the fifth point on the first axis is the introduction of a proportional electoral system, which will function balancedly in strengthening executive power, and at the same time it will activate and strengthen Parliament's legislative and control role, which, from a outset, will become a real protagonist of political life. This is the first axis. The second axis of our proposal concerns what we call'restoration of the credibility of political life', which may be the most important in terms of the crisis of institutions and representation, the crisis of values, the crisis of the political system in recent years. These proposals are proposals which are coming to respond to the distrust of citizens against the political system itself and to fight at the core of the representation crisis, which is about the widespread, unfortunately, belief in public opinion that civil servants are in fact a caste, which is mainly interested in the reproduction of privileges and not in the service of the public interest. In this context, we propose, first and perhaps top and most symbolic of all, the amendment of Article 86 of the Constitution, an article that precisely symbolizes the conversion of civil servants into caste, which thought they should be treated differently from the law, as power is a hereditary right or is a property that is not lost - is the concept of the legal property of power - a caste which they considered many times and considered to be entitled to special privileges and special criminal treatment in relation to all other citizens. Because the brief limitation on the offences of the Ministers referred to in Article 86 today is nothing but a mechanism of legal cover and a systemic collapsing of the extensive corruption policy which was thriving in the country, particularly in the period of the fat cows and, of course, in the period of absolute sovereignty of the 'old political system', as we call it. Of course, we appreciate that if there were no end to this continual situation, we would not be here today in the face of this Review, despite the fact that it was said from all sides. Because everyone is against this provision, but of course they have no say in accepting the beneficial effects of this provision, their executives. And of course, it could have been revised, if they believe what they say, in the previous revision, but that was not the case. Both New Democracy and KINAL voted together in the 2001 review. Secondly, on the question of the credibility of the political system, it is only a question of restricting parliamentary immunity to offences relating to the exercise of the duties of the Member. In other words, in a completely different view of things, the waiver of immunity should not be demanded at any time, assuming that immunity is a given given by the Members to vote on it. On the contrary, immunity should be sought, when and when Parliament considers that this is a crime involving the exercise of the functions of the Member and not a more general offence. The third proposal concerns the provision of limited parliamentary immunity for each Member, in order to avoid the creation of client networks and systems which often turn the Member into a dealer of services and voters to customers. This is a proposal, a regulation which, in addition to its essential value, has a particular symbolic value, to stop this spiral in public opinion, the firm conviction in public opinion that employment with politics is a profession and not a function in the public interest. The third axis of our proposal is the strengthening of the Republic and its involvement in the decision-making process of the people. This proposal comes to a large extent also as a vindication of a mass folk demand, particularly during the period of mobilisations against austerity 2011-2012, the popular demand for more and deeper democracy and the involvement of citizens in making critical decisions. We therefore propose the introduction of a popular referendum, but also the so-called popular legislative initiative, while at the same time establishing the obligation to ratify every international treaty, which confers the country's sovereign powers on international organisations. It is precisely at this point where the refusal of the Anti-Population shows, I would say, a deep disagreement and ideological, but also a different view of our own conception of politics, according to which the work of the people is simply to give their consent every four years to some people who know it, because the many, as ignorant - heard of this, the 'true majority' - are those who do not know, while the genius, who come from many times, from political fireplaces, are the ones who know how to handle the problems, but if they are the ones who have thrown us into bankruptcy in the previous years. The fourth axis concerns the rationalisation of relations between the Church and State, with the express assurance in Article 3 of the principle of religious neutrality of the State, but also of the mandatory political oath in state and administrative matters. And here I think that an important step is taking, with absolute respect, of course, for the religious beliefs of the citizens, a step forward towards establishing the secular state, which is the foundation of any liberal constitution. Again here there is a difference - deep, respected, but there is a difference - and ideologically, although it is a impression that Mr Mitsotakis has specifically joined in that view which was not previously a friendly opinion and opinion and placement of all those who wanted or want to call themselves liberals. It seems, however, that the most comprehensive shift of both the same and the New Democracy have led him to these positions. We have only remained to have liberalism with regard to economic issues - neoliberalism, even - market immunity, the dissolution of the social state, support for elites, but not to issues relating to social and political rights, fundamental issues, I would say, for the creation of a modern liberal society, such as the principle of religious freedom and tolerance. With this comment, I am passing on to the fifth and final axis of our proposal, which concerns strengthening the protection of social rights and common goods, which under the current conditions of the domination of economic neoliberalism, are constantly under threat. We believe that they should be protected, constitutionally, legally and in fact from the attacks of a market perception, which, unfortunately, is dominating nowadays and in a European context, according to our own assessment. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, now that I have presented to you our main positions and suggestions, to make a few comments before coming from the Step. From the very first moment in this debate on the Constitutional Review, we have respected the prestige and central importance of this top institutional process. I am sorry to say that I cannot say the same thing about the posting of Officership. He didn't want to follow that road. At first he wanted to sabotage the dialogue completely, he did not participate at all in the dialogue process. He then chose not the path of seriousness and responsibility, but chose to play games that often display an anti-institutional behaviour, transaction games, to transform the constitutional review into a lot of poker, not even respect the constitutional check, which demands the pursuit of broad consensus on constitutional revision. And when I say that he played games, I'll specifically refer to them. Because at first he said to us: 'If you accept the whole of our proposals, we will be in the process. If you do not accept the whole of our proposals, we will withdraw and participate in the constitutional review process, unprecedented in political times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u367	When was that said, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u368	You know, there are recent meetings and recent stigmas in here. Under the outcry, of course, it has retreated from this standpoint, because everyone understood, Mr Kumucaco, that if you insisted not to participate in the constitutional review process, then the argument, which is a strong argument and true, that this will only be done to prevent a process which would also be revised by Article 86, when you understood that this would create a serious political problem, as the vast majority of your public opinion and your voters think that this is an extremely problematic, embarrassing article for our democracy that must be reviewed, then you have changed your position. You have changed your position, you have participated in the process within Parliament, but you have continued to play a game, in my view institutionally hideous in relation to the issue of the election of the President of the Republic. You'll all remember that cute stench I had with the Chief of Officer Response when he himself answered me with humor in the previous conversation. When I told him that reminds me of a sympathetic football player, he pointed out to me that he was not a president, but was a Vice President. But why did I say that? Because the attitude of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis on the issue of the election of the President of the Republic was another attitude and remains another one. One said he agreed, then disagreed. Then he changed his mind and agreed a little. And then again, he disagreed a lot. And, when I finally asked what your proposal is on this issue, you replied that you would consider it. And today, after a lot of thought, we also continue to play in this matter. You say that in the end, although you disagree with the proposal put forward by SYRIZA, you will vote for the proposal you disagree with. But then you add that this proposal with which you disagree and which you will vote will not bind you. And if you, your horror, become Prime Minister, you will do whatever you want, writing in the oldest of your shoes consents, constitutional customs and court rulings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u369	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u370	What's the shame? Is your positions a disgrace, or what I'm saying is a disgrace?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u371	Quiet, ladies and gentlemen. Go on, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u372	It disturbs you when the political speech becomes invasive and understands exactly what you are doing. For you are accusing us of a government of rags, but you have turned yourself into an opposition which has no wretch. So I will continue despite the fact that I understand that it makes you angry. You are upset, but your attitude is extremely institutionally dangerous, I would say, and I will explain why. Because if your point is that you are so sure that you will win the next elections and have the parliamentary majority of fifty-one in Parliament, why then you do not vote on all the articles that we propose and with which you disagree so that you have your hands broken? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You'll answer when you come to the Step. If your institutional approach rather than any other feasibility is that which guides your position and your opinion, the position and the view that the Reform House does not commit anything, and the latter defines them all at the same time, and if you have the absolute certainty of electoral victory, namely that you will have a majority in the next House, why do you decide to focus on this article, a critical article, not only institutionally, but critically and politically, regarding the election of the President of the Republic, with which you are in advance stateing your disagreement in this direction? So why don't you vote for it all so that you can be sure, since you say you will be elected, change the other articles as you wish? Therefore, it is not the confidence that guides you, nor your institutional commitment to a post which you have previously discovered. For I would remind the House that revisions have been made of the Constitutions, and that position has never been formally formulated by your own party as a position and opinion. I am not underestimating and will not go into the essence of legal controversy. However, I will only say to you this: in 1985, when the constitutional reform relating precisely to this issue, Article 32 and the responsibilities of the President of the Republic, there was the will of the then Government of Andreas Papandreou, who, in cooperation with the Left in this House, had a majority of eighty to reduce the powers of the President of the Republic. This was therefore voted on as a direction in the first House. The party and the party of the New Democracy then disagreed with your late father, Constantine Mitsotakis. However, he never came out to say in the elections asking for the Greek people's vote that "vote me, because if I am elected and have a hundred and fifty ones, I, who disagree with the reduction of powers, will increase my responsibilities". In other words, what was voted on in the first House will change its momentum in the second House. You never said that. But what's behind all this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u373	We're unable to follow you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u374	All right, now you will stop being unable to answer and understand, because now I'm actually going to get in. What is hidden is a political feasibility. And I'll tell you immediately what this political feasibility is and what's behind it. You want to convince us that what is hidden is supposedly your fear of us playing political games. It is a completely vivid argument, since we have made it clear that we want and we are the ones who are bringing this House the proposal to decouple the presidential election from the dissolution of this House. As long as we bring it, what is it that's bothering you? You say you are concerned that if you have won the elections, we are causing you a problem. In other words, if we want to block the election of the President of the Republic by going to the direct election, that is to say to elect a president from the people after seven consecutive votes requiring the eighty-eight Members, and you in this version will, if you have the majority, want to elect a President of the Republic from Parliament with a hundred and fifty-one votes. You are supposed to tell us that what concerns you is the so-called institutional issue - because it is also institutional - of our undercover political feasibility. However, I am glad that a few days ago in a television interview - obviously on behalf of SYRIZA and not on my own behalf - I have spoken and committed politically - which you have not done, Mr Mitsotakis - that the SYRIZA considers that the current President of the Republic is doing his duties extremely well and we will propose that he be the next President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u375	Will you put it on your proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u376	Let go of the evacuations now, because it is a political matter, and don't look for any evasion. So what exactly do you say on this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u377	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u378	When we have gladly stated our proposal to change the constitution, but also what we propose on the political issue, you, Mr Mitsotakis, are carefully avoiding being placed for this. This, then, simply means that the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis will not again propose Prokopi Pavlopoulos for the President of the Republic, because the current President does not wish to renew his term of office. Maybe because he doesn't think he's a good president or because he's got his support somewhere else. What's he doing about it? He attempts to transform the process of constitutional reform into a parody, he collects various worthy, otherwise, constitutionalists to give him the view that he does not play a part in what he is voting on in the first House, but he expressly says that he disagrees in the direction and content, so that he has this article a hundred and eighty, hoping that in the next parliament he will have with KINAL, obviously, a hundred and fifty Members and change it to elect a President of the Republic, not the current President that we are proposing, but someone else, perhaps a member, now or in retirement, of KINAL. That's all the feasibility. That's all the political game that's been hiding behind this story that started since yesterday. So we'll say it clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u379	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u380	There is a great concern, but if he wants to, Mr Mitsotakis can object. He'll take the floor and he'll say "no, we'll recommend Paulopoulos", so this whole story will end. I challenge him to do it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But we want to speak clearly and then now, as always. Firstly, as far as we are concerned, we will not play with the institutions. The Greek people must know that those planning parentheses were the ones who made political careers with our national issues, who led the Greek people to the social loot of deep austerity, who gave them all, did not negotiate anything, and when they saw that they lost the upcoming elections, they built parentheses plans and waited for power to fall again as mature fruit. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We're not gonna play these games. We believe that the governments that take the vote of confidence in the House are not barber governments, are governments that take the trust of the elected, the elected representatives of the Greek people and must have a term of four years. Of course, you will tell me, 'Were you not using this option'? Yes, because the Constitution gave us this possibility. And whoever was in our position, in the position of counterpopulation in a moment of hard polarization, when the Constitution itself gives it this possibility, has no choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u381	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u382	But for that very reason, because we have institutional responsibility and insight into the future and we do not reform with our minds in the current political context, but with responsibility for the future generations, we come to respond and bring this proposal for the Review and change the Constitution. We will therefore not play games on this issue. We see the constitutional review with institutional responsibility and not on the basis of the current political context. We tell the Greek people to know that in the coming elections, in the autumn, at the end of our constitutional term, we will conflict politically and ideologically with Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy for which Greece we want, which economy we want, which society we want and the choice of the Greek people will be a choice of deep and heavy responsibility. This option will either give us the opportunity to get the country out of the memorials, which have come out of the crisis, which has reduced unemployment from 28% to 18%, which has increased the minimum wage, or will enable us to continue this process forward, or will give Mr Mitsotakis the choice, and of course KINAL, that is to say, the executives, the people who have led the country into bankruptcy, to rectify this system of power that has led us to this point. The Greek people will be the one to decide purely and unambiguously. We're not playing undermining and parentheses games. Finally, as far as Mr Mitsotakis and Mr KINAL are concerned, I would like to say - because you follow them closely in all your positions and opinions - that whatever plans you are working on today, whatever you have already agreed between you, whatever positions you have already shared between you in advance, even that of the President of the Republic, to know: Keep your appetites, you do not need to worry, with 90 Members, that you are going to bring together in the next House, President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u383	Thank you. Mr Koutsoubas, Secretary-General of the JRC and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u384	Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Review is another outstanding one that the SYRIZA Government wants to close, as the Prime Minister has told us, calling for a vote of confidence in the House a few days ago. Of course, as much as SYRIZA's gentlemen repeat the various ways of deepening democracy, the various other misleading things to present as supposedly progressive their proposal for this constitutional review, if you look at it carefully, will find that it is not all about reality. Today that this debate arrives in plenary and while the debate in the committee responsible has already taken place, we can confirm what we have said from the first moment, that this constitutional revision serves two interrelated objectives: on the one hand, it promotes some of the current needs of the urban political system, in order to ensure its sovereignty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u385	Please be quiet. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u386	On the other hand, it serves the electoral controversy between SYRIZA and the New Democracy with new false dilemmas, with dividing lines that hide or try to hide the convergence strategy in one objective: to encapsulate popular discontent. But it also serves your need, gentlemen of the government, to say that something is supposed to proceed from your election promises, which most, as the Greek people now well know, ate. No supposedly progressive wrapping can hide the real content of your own constitutional revision. For the Constitution safeguards the power of the sovereign class, it ensures its own interests, its own alliances, promotes its goals and objectives, which are in direct contrast with the objective, the real interests of the majority of the Greek people. All the revisions of the Constitution that have been made and are aimed at printing in a legal form, in a constitutional form, the needs of the urban system, as they form under the new developments. This objective was served by the constitutional reforms and the governments of the New Democracy and the PASOK governments. This objective is also served by the review we are discussing and reflected in the proposals put forward by both the SYRIZA Government and the New Democracy. You both serve the same goal and whatever you do, whatever you fight for secondary issues in here, no matter what you set up, you can't hide. Would you like to remind you of the changes made to the Greek Constitution with the previous revisions? It was a series of changes which concerned the field of the economy, the freedom to act on the capital set by the incorporation of our country into the then EEC - later in the European Union - which the people now understand very well why we called it 'the lion pit', 'the alliance' and many now come to our words. Such changes have been made that have further strengthened the validity of European Union law, not only with regard to common laws, but also with regard to the Constitution itself. Based on all this, don't you charge our people three memos? In view of all this, is our country not under permanent strict committee? In view of all this, has not all the measures in favour of large capital been implemented? We are talking about everything that is being expelled from the European Union and that applies to all its Member States. That is why many of the memoranda measures that were even in a formal contradiction with the Constitution were ultimately legalised, by invoking Euro-Union law, which has increased force. Have you forgotten, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the criticism that you have previously heard of these changes? And despite the fact that, today, you are obviously speaking hypocritically, about the so-called'supernational centres', in your proposal, you do not even at all touch on any of the reactionary changes that guarantee the strength of these so-called'supernational centres'. This has also been done with the participation of our country in the European Union and then the Economic Monetary Union, EMU. You, Mr SYRIZA, have now become the best propaganda of the deepening of the European Union, which is, of course, changing, but which is becoming worse and worse, more and more reactionary. Ladies and gentlemen, the first main objective of the constitutional review, in which you coincide with SYRIZA, New Democracy and the rest, is to secure the notorious government's stability policy. It is what you are all seeking, in order that, as you say, there should be political continuity, that is to say, that continuity in the implementation of anti-grassroots policy is not disturbed at the current juncture. Because, for example, you think that even the election of the President of the Republic, or even the pressure the people can exert at a certain point, are factors that can block this anti-grassroots work. In fact, with your proposal, ladies and gentlemen, to elect the President of the Republic, you are clearly saying that he is moving in the direction of not disturbing your own government's stability. So, what are you telling us? That your people are voting every time, anyway - as you, now, others, tomorrow - for urban parties to have stability in unemployment, in the working jungle, in wages, in hunger pensions, in the wild tax burden, so that you have the stability to serve the plans of the Americans, as you have done with the recent Ambassadors' agreement. That is exactly what you are trying to do with your proposal to elect the President of the Republic and the so-called constructive vote of distrust. What does that mean, practically? That governments that may have lost the majority of the Parliament, remain in their place, rather than against, if you like, and the will of the Greek people. Of course, this is also the practical result from another way and from the New Democracy's proposal for stable and uninterrupted four-year parliamentary governmental circles. Did you see, gentlemen, SYRIZA and New Democracy, how on a crucial issue and despite the individual differences, do you finally identify yourself? Because you both serve the objective of permanent, stable, anti-grassroots, civil governments, cooperation or even minority, not only to share in more than one political bourgeois party the responsibility of the anti-grassroots policy you are implementing, but also in order to be able to implement it without inadvertently, without obstacles, without any interference. Therefore, the crucial issue for the people is not only not to consent, but also to combat this objective of the notorious government's political stability. For as long as the great capital needs stability in the implementation of anti-grassroots policy to secure its own profits, the people must, with their struggle, seek exactly the opposite, so that they can delay anti-grassroots measures, put obstacles, pave the way for radical changes to their benefit. The second objective of the Constitutional Review is the resumption of this rotten, corrupt political system against which there is also intense popular discontent. And it makes sense, when you say other things you have been doing for years now with your first and best, gentlemen of SYRIZA, for taking the hope of the people and making it a real blade for his rights. The Greek people have been seeing this rot, even more recently with all this lisverish, bazaar, the transcriptions in which you are all involved together.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u387	Please be quiet. Mr. Tasouula and Mr. Catrugale, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u388	These reactionary goals cannot be concealed, no matter how much you try to dress them up with pompous slogans, with great declarations of incision to democracy, to deepen democracy, to protect social rights and, as much as you try to forge them as progress and break with the old, conservative, corrupt political system. Even these proposals which are the so-called anti-neoliberal agenda are not as anti-neoliberal as you say them. Besides, today, in the current constitution, there are declarations for recognition of rights, such as the right to work, the right to shelter, the right to strike, the right to sit together. For the right to work, however, they can best speak of the millions of unemployed, underemployed, young children who do not today know what 'right' means. Only for so - called opportunities and all opportunities are you all talking to them. In order to defend the right to the roof, the New Democracy put HNPH in place, and SYRIZA kept him, taking off the auctions. As for the right to strike, the Constitution has not prevented you from voting for your well-known striker last law. And as far as the right of assembly is concerned, tell the farmers, who before they can set up the farm blocks, start their mobilisations, send them the court proceedings, drag them into court. As for the equality of citizens mentioned in all the constitutions internationally and in the Greek of course, it is karlphic, because it equates the holder of capital with the holder of the labour force, equates the exploiter with the exploiter, the oppressor with the oppressor. Where and yet is the employee equal to the employer, the owner of a large company, a monopoly group, which can be hired whenever he wants to fire? Your proposal for social security is karabinatis neoliberal policy, since it introduces the term of recompense, which reminds you of it was the philosophical ramification for all the state-owned laws of the New Democracy and PASOK, for the dissolution of whatever social character it had left in social security. So here is how and where you identify neoliberal and social democrats. We have read in your proposal, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, but also in you of the New Democracy your intention to ensure a minimum standard of living that the state must ensure. If this is not the constitutional guarantee of extremist poverty, the confession of both of you that you cannot guarantee anything better than the management of this extreme poverty, then what is it? As for the proposal that water distribution networks be under public control, it is not because you want to block the course of privatisation and liberalisation, but because you want the public sector only to be a wheel-maker. What other than constitutionalisation are these proposals? Villages that even a number of rights exist today in the Constitution you and the previous ones have smashed them, plunging them, making use of the clauses and loopholes that each civil constitution has. In fact, on the occasion of the Review, you said to regain the fight you left in the middle of reviewing or not of Article 16 of the Constitution, both playing in disparity with the intelligence of tens of thousands of students and their families. To tell us, does SYRIZA object to the New Democracy's goal of closer links between universities and the capitalist market and large businesses? Has it not served this goal consistently for four years now? Did he put a brake on the pay-out postgraduate programs? On the contrary. On SYRIZA, we had a sharp increase in the number of these programmes. Does SYRIZA object to the equivalence of the diplomas you promote, based on the directions of the European Union? In fact, Mr SYRIZA, to see how democrats, how progressive you are, you refused to adopt, even some overripe demands of urban modernisation, such as the total abolition of Article 86 on the criminal liability of Ministers, in order for there to be genuinely equal treatment of the ministers with the ordinary citizens of that country, with regard to their criminal treatment. You also rejected the complete separation of a State-Church, despite your election declarations, which has been initiated for two centuries in other countries and which has been carried out for at least decades in some other countries. You rejected the simple and unadulterated analogy to the analog caricature you brought, with the possibility of bonuses in 10% of the seats. You even rejected the arrangement that the court should not be appointed by the government, which was your own proposal before, as well as by the judges themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u389	It has crises now, Mr President, that is why they do not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u390	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u391	Well, we saw what you did, Mr. Athanasios. Do not interfere and you want to hear them again from the Step. You hear them from here at least in a beautiful way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u392	I advocated what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u393	There's no need for such lawyers in the JRC. You know that very well. He can tell his views clearly and unequivocally to the Greek people. Neither you nor SYRIZA need lawyers. Ladies and gentlemen, we in this debate on the constitutional review have gathered our attention either to the abolition or to the positive amendment of articles concerning, for example, trade liberties, the abolition of anti-democratic articles and others. We have tabled proposals for the protection and expansion of popular democratic rights, trade union liberties and the sovereign rights of our country, without delusion, of the fact that there can be a truly progressive democratically genuine Constitution, within the framework of the current defensive power of big capital. One of the main axes of our proposals refers to one of the most central issues that could be captured and the title "exercise of the sovereign rights of Greece", for which neither you, masters of the government, nor you gentlemen of the counterpopulation speak, you dare not even harm them. We are talking about Articles 27 and 28 of the Constitution, allowing restrictions on the exercise of sovereign rights, their assignment to foreign centres, as well as the possibility of crossing and staying foreign troops and the existence of bases in Greece. These are provisions that allow the country to be involved in dangerous imperialist competition, in a context where international law becomes more reactionary, resulting in increased wars, interventions and with the possibility of more general wars in the wider region. These provisions which facilitate the implementation of NATO, the European Union and the participation of our country in these plans must be changed. Of course, in the past, the participation of our country in these plans has also been implemented in violation of the Constitution itself, such as the period of war in Yugoslavia, through the crossing of the country's naval troops, in order to confuse the neighboring and friendly people. In particular, we call for the abolition of Article 27(1) which allows for a change to the limits of the Greek state, as well as paragraph 2, which allows foreign troops to pass through them. We also call on Article 27 to add a paragraph that does not allow for the acquisition and retention of nuclear, chemical weapons in our country. Is it possible to raise these provisions when your Government has taken the role of NATO signifier in the region when it has turned the country into a vast U.S. camp? In our proposal we call for the abolition of Article 28 as a whole, which allows the granting of sovereign rights to foreign centres, of restrictions on the exercise of our national sovereignty. We are also calling for a abolition of the interpretative declaration guaranteeing the country's participation in the European Union, as well as the interpretative declaration under Article 80 that regulates - and indeed constitutionally - Greece's participation in the euro area. These two provisions guarantee the unacceptable, in all respects, supremacy of European Union law vis-à-vis Greek law. Another key element of our proposal is the expansion of social, political and trade rights. We have proposed that any restrictions on the right to strike be completely removed and that this right should be extended, with the safeguarding of strikes, solidarity, etc. We have also proposed banning competitivity, the well-known lock out. We also said that there should be a ban on strikes being taken, that the right to strike be extended to the security bodies, to judicial proceedings and that there should be no ban on the trade union activity of employees in the closer and wider public sector. In particular, we would like to stand by the so-called'social rights' and emphasise the following: we are well aware that it is a prerequisite for their implementation that the state has the necessary tools to have - just to say so - the real keys to the economy itself. Therefore, it must also be a power, a government that will make social ownership of all the concentrated means of production, so that it can meet modern popular needs. But in any case - under any circumstances, we say - we cannot tolerate education, health, welfare and social security being goods. We call for the abolition in these areas of the activity of the various business groups that are interested only in their own profits, indifferent to the lives of the people, even in jeopardizing the lives of our own people. These services must be provided free of charge by the State. Social security must be an exclusive obligation of the State. We are therefore talking about guaranteeing, without restrictions, free collective agreements in the public and private sectors. Over the years we have had no illusion that you would ultimately adopt these clean proposals for our people. Here you triggered the law of the New Democracy, the Brutsi Act, which determines the lower wage by ministerial decision, excluding collective agreements. That is why you rejected the proposal for a law of the five hundred and thirty unions tabled by our parliamentary group. We demand that the right of appeal be fully guaranteed, while at the same time abolishing the restrictions on public meetings, as the existing restrictions in the Constitution do. We also propose a series of changes concerning popular democratic freedoms, such as, for example, guaranteeing the right to legal support for all procedures before all judicial and other authorities, such as extending the protection of personal data that are at the mercy of the action of various repressive and other mechanisms, services, groups, and forming, with the support of the United States, the European Union, their governments, new and more advanced entrepreneurial and monitoring mechanisms. Relevant to these issues is also the axis of our proposal on the protection of public wealth and the abolition of the privileges which foreign and logistics have enjoyed for decades. We are referring to Article 107 of the Constitution. That's not even what you dared accept. We have also raised a question of amending Article 18 of the Constitution so that the country's mineral wealth - hydrocarbons, social goods, water, electricity, gas and so on. - to be the property of the State and not to be granted for exploitation by different third parties. The same must be protected and the public land in mountainous areas should not be allocated to third parties, the gypsies, the caves, the lakes, the lakes, the archaeological sites. In particular, with regard to the archaeological sites and the cultural heritage of our country, this issue becomes extremely topical, considering the transfer of several such sites to the so-called superstition for use. And, of course, when we hear about exploitation, we know that this is about the concession of the capital for exploitation. The remedial moves you have made lately after strong people's pressure do not ensure neither everyone nor sufficient archaeological sites in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, a separate chapter in our proposal is the issues of the functioning of the House and the state institutions. It distinguishes Article 48 of the Constitution, which refers to the state of siege which is also one of the central issues. As is well known, this article provides the possibility of suspending articles of the Constitution that define individual and collective rights, civil liberties, and also provides for special courts to be established in the name of dealing with external risks or a threat to national security. We have proposed the substantial abolition of Article 48, because there is no reason to suspend civil liberties, individual and social rights for any reason. Consider only the possibility of ordering necessary infrastructure, such as ports, airports, food industries, medicine and possibly others, which belong to domestic or foreign economic interests today in the event of a foreign country attack or coalition of countries against Greece's sovereign rights and territorial integrity. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to go into the matter of Parliament's operation, about the issues of legislative initiative by the people, etc. Here, too, we have tabled detailed proposals on these issues. And, by the way, because your hypocrisy is overtaken, can you tell us what all these predictions have been and the current constitution that banned the needless, the late amendments, the restrictions on legislative acts and the urgent drafts? Why all of you have broken them raw and continue to violate them with various pretexts each time and all of you, despite the prohibitions of today's constitution, so you have ruled, with fast track procedures and evil having been extended over the last four years. The same applies to the legislative initiative by the people. Five hundred and thirty mass clubs - we will say again, we will call it trade unions, labour centres, confederations, federations that cover thousands, tens of thousands of workers have tabled a proposal for a minimum wage law. You threw her in the canopy of the useless. That's the way you are. You're unreliable to all of you. We told you earlier about our proposal for the complete separation of State-Church that it is an overtime request. That is why we propose that all the relevant articles of the Constitution be repealed or amended. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't make such a noise, gentlemen of the New Democracy. This specifically concerns SYRIZA's colleagues there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u394	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u395	Once again, therefore, we stress that this separation of State - Church to nothing prevents people who believe in their religious duties. In this context, we predict the abolition of the religious type of oath, the mandatoryity of the political marriage, the namelessness of their recognition by the state, which also does not prevent anyone and anyone from making a religious ceremony. In what we disagree is the political and economic entrepreneurial embrace of the State - Church, which is outdated and obsolete today. And here we cannot comment on SYRIZA Members' positions in the Committee on Constitutional Revision, which in order to hide their own retreats, their various transactions, reached this hourly request, which they themselves have already proposed, to call it a so-called pillistic one. We also want, in today's debate, to reiterate that the JRC supports the single employment relationship in the public sector and the abolition of the constitutional ban on the permanentisation of contractors. And if, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you wanted to solve the problem of the hostage of the contractors, you could propose the revision of this particular article. But you don't want to solve it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also tabled proposals on justice issues and on the way in which the supreme courts have led them, without, of course, cultivating and illusions that there can be genuinely independent justice from the strong political economic interests within this sound and corrupt system. Our proposal includes some overtime, we believe. Such is the election of the head of justice by a broader electorate instead of its appointment so far by the government. For the need to change the article on the criminal liability of Ministers, you have all spoken. However, the JRC supports the need for a radical change in Article 86 in order to remove all obstacles and to prosecute ministers like all citizens and to ensure that the common limitations apply. But that's not enough. Their persecution should not depend on the will of the particular governmental parliamentary majority. You know very well that, as things stand today, the government majority decides whether or not to initiate the process. If the government does not want it, persecution is not exercised, your proposals leave it untouchable. We say that this Rule 86 should be lifted completely and, in any case, the prosecution should not depend on the will of the current government majority, but on moving, even if a limited number of Members - for example a hundred Members - are calling for a stop to the involvement of Parliament. I left the issue of local administration last. I shall say two words, without, of course, meaning that it is the last one in importance. At a time when the role of local government is increasingly being strengthened as a mechanism for the passage of anti-grassroots policies, our firm position is constitutional safeguarding, the obligation of the State to ensure the necessary resources in local government by financing the state budget instead of the current situation and accepting all the other forces and their representatives to the local government, according to which the transfer of powers is accompanied by economic strangulation, transforming the municipalities, regions into another tax mechanism, to a lever for strengthening the reciprocity, the commercialisation of social services, which we live every day and should also be an additional criterion for the Greek people and youth in the face of the local elections in May. Ladies and gentlemen, as a party, as we have done in previous revisions, in addition to these articles, we do not think that at this stage the number of eighty-eight in critical constitutional provisions should be concentrated, which will solve the hands of any next government, in whichever government majority decides the final constitutional changes at hand. We call it clear. We have no confidence in you, because all of you, despite your differences, are serving the interests of big capital, the groups, the European Union, NATO. We won't get tired of saying it. That is why we have no confidence in what you will finally decide to implement in the next House and in relation to the Constitution. We put these proposals before us first and foremost in the working class, to the people with a view to becoming the subject of demanding the movement. Through this struggle, workers, farmers, the city's self-employed, young people and women in the working and folk layers believe they can realise that the defence and expansion of these rights, their enjoyment in real life require deeper, radical changes in the economy and society, to whom they have the power, the workers, the people, or the exploiters of wealth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u396	Thank you. Do you want to testify, Mr. Loverdo? You notified me before I gave the floor to the chief...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u397	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm just making a statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u398	Thank you very much. It is a statement about reports made by the Prime Minister to your party, as I was informed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-five students and students and two teachers attending the 4th Agrinio High School (Third Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The floor is held by the Chief of Officerial Response, President of the New Democracy, Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to the speech by the Secretary-General of the Communist Party and his positions and opinions on the constitutional review. I must say that they are coherent and certainly consistent with the ideological core of the positions of the Communist Party. And I fully respect the position of the party it represents, that in his view the eighty-eight Members should be the one called for in the Review House and not in the Proposing Parliament. I must point out, however, Mr Secretary-General, that the Constitution does not define that. If the Constitution imposed an increased majority on the Review House, then it would explicitly define it. But I cannot say the same about the Prime Minister's speech. And hearing him read his speech about the Constitution, I thought, thank God you think, Mr Tsipras, that yours is the economy and not the constitutional ones, because at that time I would be very worried. For once again you have shown - and I will say - an ignorance of the basic issues relating to the Constitution or a conscious attempt to distort our positions and now your memory has been rather selective. You did not mention, Mr. Tsipras, in your speech that at our first meeting, which we had a few weeks after he was elected President of the New Democracy in January 2016, I had raised the issue of constitutional review myself, then submitting a bold proposal, but also in our view deeply democratic and certainly fully consistent with the spirit of the Constitution. What was that proposal? "Come on to vote on the articles requested by SYRIZA, SYRIZA asks for the articles that the New Democracy asks for to be considered a reviewer to come from the first, the Proposing Parliament, with an increased majority of more than one hundred eighty Members so that the next Parliament can, by a simple majority, determine the contents of the Constitution." The reason why I submitted this proposal to you is simple and is to do with the fact that the reformist philosophy itself includes between the first and the second Parliaments - the proposed and the revised Parliament, namely, the people's mandate, the elections. That is why elections are being held between the first and second ballots. Therefore, when the people are called upon to come to the elections - when you finally choose to hold them - they will vote not only for a government, but also for the content of the constitutional provisions. Hence it is not the House proposed, Mr Katrugale, to define either the direction or the contents of the revised provisions. Then there would be no reason for the Review House to have an opinion on this matter and it would certainly not have been for the constitutional legislator to have had national elections between the two stages of the process. So, Mr. Tsipras, you asked me and asked me the challenge: "Why do you not vote for the other articles than 32?" is not only the 32 that we are voting on, your partners have not been well informed. There are other articles in which we coincide. So why don't we vote for other articles? I repeat my proposal: Vote on all the articles that we are proposing, that we also vote on the articles that you request to be revised! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But not half the jobs, Mr. Tsipras! Not half the jobs!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u400	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u401	If you believe so much in the power of the people's mandate, then you have no reason to fear our proposal, because in fact the next elections will not only have the object of who will govern the country for the next four years, but also the content of the Constitutional Charter. And, of course, the citizens will also know your proposals and proposals. In any case, all this insecurity that you have made in your half-speaking scripts about whether an increased majority or not occurs, but, Mr Tsipras, if you were so sure that you would win the election, you would not have had any such debate, it would have gone further. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So why is that stress? Why such insecurity? Why are you compelling your Minister and rapporteur of the revised procedure to go to the parliamentary authors and imply that he may not have the eighty-eight Members, because in this way you will give New Democracy the opportunity of a hundred and fifty-five Members of Parliament to be able to formulate the relevant article? I don't understand. What I think you are all aware of is that through this debate on the constitutional review you are trying to make a political management of your perpetual defeat. However, things are more important because the Constitution - because it is being regulated today and indeed our rapporteur, Mr Tsoulus, is right - does not all the Bulgarians have the privilege to participate in a review process, we are lucky to have this privilege - regulates the issues relating to the political and state map of the economy and the economy over time, we have to look at them beyond our narrow electoral horizon. Because the Constitution is indeed the compass of our democracy and the supreme law defines all aspects of life in the country. Therefore, it must not just go hand in hand with the needs of today, but it must also meet tomorrow's demands. The Constitutional Review is a leading moment for Parliament. But it is a time of responsibility for each and every one of us. And it should not be a lost opportunity because of the inability of the political forces to convene where it needs to be. Because the review procedure itself presupposes by definition and consent on the one hand and the individual responsibility of Members on the other. To borrow the lyrics of Andreas Calvos, "the freedom will be virtue and bold" and the constitutional revision will certainly be a virtue and bold one. And from this point of view, the process in which we are all involved is a lesson in democracy. However, it is also an active assessment of the quality of the country's life policy. So the review becomes the mirror of the political system in its current state. Ladies and gentlemen, the political, economic, social environment in which the constitutional reform processes are culminating is unprecedented. For a decade now, our country has been plagued by a deep crisis. The economy has been dismantled and shrinked. The cohesion of society is under threat. People'sism became a tool first for the conquest of power and then for the exercise of power. The institutions have been undermined. The clear - at least so should be in a favoured democracy - dividing lines between legislative power, executive power and government have been brutally violated. It's the same civilization that was challenged at its core. So this process of constitutional revision is also of the character of restoring democratic function. Greece today has more than ever a need for a regeneration. The economy needs rebooting, society needs unity and a tangible vision. Institutions need reconstruction and prestige. A new Greece clearly needs a new constitution. Of course the Constitution is not panacea, because today the problem of the country is more political and less constitutional. A new constitution, however, can heal many of our country’s chronic pathogens. That is why a brave, bold review is a prerequisite for moving forward, leaving the crisis behind. The New Democracy faces this process as a guide to the bold changes that our country needs. We have tabled 59 proposals, proposals for revision in 59 articles. Even at the last moment, we expect the government majority to deal with them - I shall then come to the proposals that I consider to be the most decisive - to deal with some of them in an open spirit, to put the country's good at above the party's present interest. Furthermore, we must not forget that in the revision process each Member has full autonomy to obey his conscience. There is no - at least for New Democracy - party discipline in the debate on Constitutional Review. This is a political tradition, which we must continue. I note with interest that a few SYRIZA Members spoke with courage yesterday and with a willingness to throw bridges and not to raise walls. The country today needs consent and not extreme controversy. Soon tomorrow and in a month from now, when the second vote is finalized, we will know whether they, at least at the level of the Constitution, can be achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, in the two proposals which brought together the fifty signatures required and were tabled - SYRIZA and the New Democracy were the two parties that tabled proposals, bringing together the necessary signatures - there are indeed some - unfortunately a few - welcome convergences. But these two proposals and our great differences reveal differences, which actually reflect two opposite worlds, other values, other ideas, another conception of institutions. Besides, the moods of each political party appear clear in the mirror of the review process. It seems to me that everyone sees the future of the country, who wants to go home ahead and who wants to be doomed, who meets the demands of the present and the challenges, the needs of the future and who cares. Finally, the way in which we are dealing with the Constitution shows our true identity, shows who is really progressive and who is ultimately the representative of maintenance and delay, as is revealed by the possibility - not to discount the final result - of a political selfishness with which the national interest can be sacrificed in order to serve temporary party pursuits and ultimately to lose a great opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, three months ago exactly from the same Step I had warned about what is unfortunately happening today. I said that SYRIZA would not hesitate to use the Constitution as a tool for his own interests, as a lever for intervention in the institutions and as a handle to hold a little longer in power, and I am unfortunately confirmed and not just in it. In the meantime, the parliament has suffered a violent shock. It's changed to a real political mass. Since I understand that the Prime Minister is disturbed when we use the term'majority', let us be told how else one has to define a reality in which MPs exchange their consciences with ministerial posts, where MPs belong simultaneously to two parliamentary groups, whether they are hired or better recruited, hired politically - so as not to be misunderstood - by the government for a certain period of time or for a specific purpose. Or how should one characterise a reality where, Mr Tsipras, MPs on paper declare independent, but have given their vote in advance and in white, that is, their very conscience, Mr Tsipras and the government majority? We have the global paradox in Greece to have two different majorities. One is the typical majority of forty-five Members participating in the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. It's a forty-five minority. There is also an informal group of fifty-five of a special-purpose MP. They're being recruited all the time, they're changing. I am curious to see how these majority voting for the articles of the Constitution will be formed. Let us see, for example, what the majority will be and whether a majority will be found for the revision of Article 3 of the Constitution. However, these MPs are recruited every once in a while to turn a clear minority to a majority of opportunity, to a majority of SYRIZA with six MPs "Twice". [[Laughers - Applause from the New Democracy ward]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] This, however, alters the representativeness of the House, but it also burdens with additional political and moral burdens the attitude that will be taken by the six Members concerned in the constitutional review procedure, because I would remind you once again that the revision is not a matter of either the executive or the parties. It is the responsibility of the parliamentarians alone, and it wants clear positions and transparent functions. Unfortunately, the atmosphere in recent months has not. This debate, therefore, presupposes, for all of us, that we should go further. I am not sure that there are personal political reserves so that the Members of the House will do so. I hope, however, that I will not be confirmed in that provision. Ladies and gentlemen, because Mr Tsipras has made a brief retrogression of the reform process as it was launched, let me present it in my turn in a slightly - I believe - more objectively. About three years ago you announced the revision procedure by having, if I remember correctly, illuminated the Parliament and then assigned this procedure to a "Digital Committee". This 'Digital Committee' may have involved persons who are distinguished in their premises, but they certainly had nothing to do with the Constitution, nor did they have any specific legal knowledge to understand the limits and techniques of the revision. So this important process was brought to fruition. Even so, the Commission's finding was ignored. This was another communal trick. And that was evident when the rapporteur himself, Mr Katrugalos, resorted to institutional populism. I would like to remind you that Mr Katrugalos has said a supporter of the Constitutional Assembly. Isn't that right, Minister? I have here the articles in question. They show you with a little richer count then. I am presenting to the Minutes the relevant articles of Mr Katrugalos. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It was the anti-immemorial era, when you clearly said that a Constitutional Convention is needed, thereby violating the very limitations imposed by the Constitution in order to protect the revision itself from any misappropriation. For the first time, the proposal to divert the Reform Parliament essentially into a Constitutional Parliament was heard. And how did you say that, Mr. Catrugale?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u402	I was a professor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u403	Oh, it wasn't official lips!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u404	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u405	Yes, sir. In other words, you have revised your views. But you say as a professor, but as a minister, but as a Member of Parliament. Congratulations on your consistency and thank you for clarifying it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But it's even better. Mr. Tsipras said that, of course. The Constitutional Assembly, Mr. Katrugalos, said, how will it come about? It's going to be motorized with a catalyst on the left. That's what you said. Air words, as they proved, but which directly violated the constitutional order. I wonder: Is that what you taught children? Were you teaching children, as a Constitutional Professor, that the revision of the Constitution could result in a movement with a left catalyst? In times of political normality, the review process is a process that takes time to discuss in depth the proposed changes of the Constitution and, where possible, to reach the necessary consensus. Instead, the government left the review on the shelf. You only restored her when she served you politically. You remember, Mr Tsipras, the review just thirty-one months after you had started the debate on it, with the obvious that the choice of time was not random. You are trying to change the political agenda from the burdens imposed on society: economic, social, moral, last and national. In fact, Mr Tsipras confirmed that he is not in fact interested in either the Constitution or its change, which is why he has brought the revision to the House in conditions that will probably make it politically consumable and institutionally incomprehensible and likely to develop into another lost opportunity. The meetings of the parliamentary committee were extremely few for substantial dialogue on almost all of the articles of the Constitution. This process in the 2001 review and in the 2006 review, regardless of the final result, had lasted for more than five months. Here in just eighteen meetings more than eighty articles were examined and the revision is now to be voted on in plenary in two meetings. In other words, Members in a few hours' time only have to discuss the revision of the Constitution, a revision that should be an opportunity for the country's institutional relaunch. The facts therefore speak for themselves. This rape of the process reveals the SYRIZA plan to put the constitutional review on the mill of a barren political confrontation. I won't say it's a disgrace. I will simply say that it is a pity, as is an important political backwardness, because the political system in the last few decades has shaped a tradition, that the constitutional reform of political conflicts and party polarisation should avoid. I participated - I see Mr Loverdos, who also participated - in the review committee - as a newly elected MP at the time, first four years of the Karamanlis government - in the years 2005-2006. I have extremely pleasant memories of this experience, because I do remember that we have been able to put aside the sterile party conflicts - and then there was too much tension - and to discuss and listen at least to what our interlocutors have said and try well to form a common place, as the Constitution itself imposes. So this acquis - because this is really the acquis of all the review procedures, regardless of whether some have subsequently retreated, if Mr. George Papandreou has abandoned his insistence on changing Article 16 - but the acquis of the procedure has always been consensual. So this acquis is thrown into the fire of political amoralism, an amoralism which unfortunately sees all the opponents who are trying to destroy in every way. In any case, you had no intention of respecting, not only political traditions, but also institutional functions. You initially proposed that your proposals should be put to a referendum, a referendum which you were consulting, and you know very well that Article 110 clearly and rigorously defines the constitutional procedure. And since then you have insisted that the House should not only propose the articles to be revised nor even define their general direction, but instead define in advance the content to be voted on by the next House, which, from the Constitution, is the only revision Parliament. In other words, you are trying to violate the spirit and letter of the Constitution, according to which the composition of the first, the proposed parliament, proposes the articles to be amended, and the next one defines their precise content. You made a derogatory reference to your word at a meeting we had with top constitutionalists. It was disgraceful to refer to you, Mr Tsipras, because all constitutionalists or almost all constitutionalists are in favour of this view, namely that the Proposing House cannot commit to the House, not even in terms of its direction, but certainly not in terms of the content of the revised provisions. And I don't think I need to reread here the positions of the top constitutionalists, which they shared, and top constitutionalists like Professor Manissis, Professor Chatsos, who are no longer alive. Because the Constitution is too clear. As I told you at the introduction of my speech, it is clear that the people should have the right to express themselves in the elections that are taking place, that is to say, to know how the new constitution each party wants and with their vote to define the changes they want. That is what the constitutional order stipulates, but that is why democratic conscience is also anticipated. So, Mr Tsipras, do you deny what the Constitution expressly states and to which all constitutionalists who interpret it practically agree? And what is ultimately demanding is what respect for the people's will ultimately demands? And why do you refuse the Greeks finally to decide what concerns them? Finally, you seem to be very afraid of the popular vote in the next election. But whatever is to be discussed in this House, as many votes on incidental procedural matters as they are organised, it is the next House that will finally judge this issue. Interna corporis. Parliament's internal issues are decided only by the House itself. All this, however, as tactical moves, confirms once again that you are lacking respect for the popular verdict, a popular verdict you are trying in every way to manipulate, as you are trying to violate the constitutional order, supposedly binding on the next Review House. As I said, Mr Tsipras, there is another way. I repeat my proposal: let us vote together on all the articles which you consider to be a reviewer and we shall vote on yours. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And if this is a little heavy and awkward, because you may be discounting the election result, I can come back with a slightly shrunk version of my proposal. For us two articles, Article 16 and Article 24, are top political articles. So choose two articles, Mr Tsipras, which we do not want to revise, what you think are the most important, and I undertake to vote and judge them as a reviewer, although you agree here and now in the revision of Article 16 and Article 24. Whoever you want. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Church, referendum, any articles you want. If you have such faith in your electoral prevalence in your interpretation, I imagine you have nothing to fear from our proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u406	You're playing the Constitution in dice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u407	He's not in the dice, Mr. Comrade. It's not the dice, because you know the people's mandate isn't dice, when people interfere, we don't play dice, we do elections. If you're in trouble with the casino elections, that's your problem, it's not ours. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's go see the essence of SYRIZA's proposals, even though they concern a limited review. What do you propose, Mr. Tsipras, to the five axes that you presented to us? Firstly, let us see and where we agree, some self-evident and mature changes, such as the one concerning the responsibility of Members and Ministers. I do not need to remind you that in 2006 as a Member - with some bold ones, the truth is, colleagues - I had at that time proposed the revision of Rule 86. Of course then and since the coalition I have found no support, but I am going through this. However, it is certain that this issue had been raised from the past. It is also certain that the conditions have matured and that Article 86 should also be revised in respect of the amortisation deadline and the special protection regime enjoyed by the ministers, but also the article on immunity for Members, behind which your old competitors and partners are now hiding in power. Mr. Kammens hides behind the immunity article now so that he does not go to court to be tried like the common mortals. To highlight a little hypocrisy in your attitude. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But at least that is what we agree. It is at least the least we can agree on. You are also proposing some provisions - which have no real value at all - which are obviously tabled only for reasons of impression. You have not even dared to refer to them today in your speech. I would remind you, however, that you are talking about not privatising energy when you yourself are the ones who have devalued PPC and sold its units. How hypocrisy, Mr. Tsipras! How hypocrisy now! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Other provisions we consider to be inappropriate, such as matters of State - Church relations. I would remind you, Mr Tsipras, that what you call "religious neutrality" is essentially enshrined in Article 13, which clearly guarantees without questioning the religious freedom of all Greek citizens, those who live in Greece. This is not the case, therefore. Issues relating to relations between State and Church can be regulated by common law and obviously not with initiatives such as those you take, so that you can actually get out of the official payroll of the state ten thousand clergymen to make tens of thousands of appointments, because that is the real purpose of the arrangement you bring. However, you are proposing some provisions, which are directly dissolving, such as the constitutional safeguarding of simple analogy, which will lead the country to insolence and chaos. Other provisions, which seem to sound good, but which undermine the institutions of our representative democracy, such as your proposal to extend the institution of the referendums. Really? And who suggests that? You who have succeeded, humiliated the institution of the referendums, when you make the famous "cock" of 2015. Others asked the Greeks to vote, 'no' they voted, 'yes' you gave them a week later. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] However, your proposal to revise the method of electing the President of the Republic is also invaluable. What did you tell us, Mr. Tsipras? I do not know if you said this at the hole of your speech, or if you understood the deep cynicism you said about what you did in 2015. What did you tell us? "But the Constitution gave us the opportunity to drop the government, but now as a responsible political leader, I come to change the Constitution so that in future I would not give anyone else the opportunity to do the same thing that I did some years ago." Mr. Tsipras, you're untreatedly cynical. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you are the last person to talk about changing the way the President of the Republic is elected and decoupling him from the early election process, when you have just used this provision of the Constitution to cast down the previous government. What you want to do is eventually end up with a clipboard Constitution in your measures, blocking any reformal change for many years. In addition, Mr Katrugalos had confessed to a public position. The main target you said, Mr. Catrugale, is...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u408	Never.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u409	Of course you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u410	Never.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u411	Like what you didn't tell the reporters! Okay. We've got it in the Minutes. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What you said is that your main aim is to prevent, to "burn" that is to enable New Democracy to change Article 16 for higher education. That is your real purpose. You want to go to a small revision to refer to the ultimate future of major constitutional changes concerning key issues, such as the change in Article 16. I am very surprised, however, by you who are liberal reformers, progressive, because in your proposal for the revision you deny any change in funds relating to public administration, education, development, justice, fiscal stability, the environment. These are all areas where we need bold reforms. But they remain outside the narrow core of SYRIZA's proposals. We recommend a series of bold constitutional changes that respond to the demands of times. Of course, it is no coincidence that at the moment - perhaps if Mr Tsipras accepts my proposal, we have some pleasant surprises - you have only accepted two articles of which we have proposed to be reviewed, one of which concerns the rights of parliamentary minorities. Obviously, you have been taking care from today of what you are waiting for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u412	You suggested it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u413	We suggested it, didn't we? So things are clear. We are tabling a bold package of reforms, moving on three axes. The first objective is to ensure the political normality and balance of institutions, which ensure the proper functioning of the state and democracy. If anything needs, ladies and gentlemen, today our country is a functional democracy that guarantees political stability, but it will also guarantee the separation of powers and, in particular, the control of executive power, with a state which is impartial and effective. Secondly, our proposal promotes the country's economic stability and development prospects. It is not possible for these funds to remain outside the debate when we come out of a multiannual crisis, which is primarily economic. We therefore want constitutional provisions to facilitate the creation of a rational economic environment for citizens and businesses. Thirdly, we are promoting proposals that promote solidarity on the basis of society and democracy - I repeat, the dignity - at all levels of the state so that all Greeks have equal opportunities for progress and free the country's great human resources. In order to become more specific, we propose provisions that ensure the continuity and effectiveness of the state. We're going a little further than you. We want to establish a stable electoral cycle and limit even more than your own proposals the reasons for the early dismantling of this House. And yes, we are disconnecting the election of the President of the Republic from the early dissolution of the House, which is very important now, because political stability must finally be ensured in the country. Because I have heard you comment on our proposal and our attitude to this particular issue, let me become a little more detailed. Mr Tsipras, we agree with you and I in the direction of Article 32. What do I mean, we agree in the direction? We agree that we need to find a way for Parliament not to fall apart in case it fails to elect a President of the Republic. That is the direction, and that is what we agree. That is the major issue. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We disagree with the way in which the President of the Republic is elected. Indeed, after intense internal consultation, which has been heard by many different proposals, we have finally come to the proposal that, if the House fails to elect a President of the Republic by a qualified majority, the President of the Republic should be elected by a simple majority of fifty-five Members, which I would remind you that he has done before in the recent parliamentary history. It's nothing new. The reason why we come to this proposal is primarily that we cannot have two different ways of electing the President of the Republic. We cannot, on the one hand, seek consensus and elect a President of the Republic with two hundred MPs, and on the other hand, when it is not done, appeal to the people and a President who has not been able to obtain consensus in this House, be elected by increased popular legitimacy, paid off by the people's polls. We will have two different kinds of Presidents, and this is a problem for a State which is the President-in-Office and in which the President of the Republic has specific and defined responsibilities. So, as you can see, Mr Tsipras, we do not enter the debate on who should or should not be the next President of the Republic. You must be too desperate to catch in your mouth today's President of the Republic and to involve him in your own party games. Because that's what you're doing right now. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We propose the upgrading of the House by rules of good law and by strengthening the role of a minority, while gaining constitutional safeguards with our proposal to combat crime and pluralism. We are proposing - and I am surprised that you have not found a word to say about this, Mr Tsipras - that you may refer it to the second language or speak of it by the Minister of Justice - the shielding of justice and the choice of the highest judges to come from the government to the House. Don't you think this is a bold reform initiative? So put yourself in this regard for the independence of justice. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We propose a modern public administration, with merit and assessment, reciprocity, efficiency and with ASP to a central role for all levels. We propose the real strengthening of local authorities: More competences, increased resources, increased accountability of elected representatives. We also propose strengthening the welfare state by constitutionally guaranteeing the minimum guaranteed income, which I repeat is a policy launched by the New Democracy on Minister Giannis Vroutzis, which you fought for and then adopted. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are proposing a stable development and economic environment and we are introducing rules that prevent fiscal derailment, as the European Commission recommends. At a time when the country still has a huge difficulty to borrow from the markets, it has a lack of credibility, everyone can wait for us at the corner and hold it, if the country can go back to the old bad habits, do you not think that such a constitutional safeguard will facilitate the country's effort to borrow from the markets and also put a clear constitutional framework to justice, so that justice, when making decisions on budgetary matters, does not make it arbitrary, but within a specific context? Don't you think that would be really useful? I didn't hear you say anything about that. Our proposals stimulate healthy competition, strengthen strategic investment and our proposal for taxes and other burdens are imposed only on the future and not retroactively. Finally, we propose - and I am surprised that you have not had a word about this - the essential protection of the natural environment. We must ensure that climate change is dealt with in a constitutional way. It is the biggest long-term threat to our country. You who are a party of ecology, ecological movements, a word about Article 24, didn't you find yourself saying? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, yes, we solve the loose end with the definition of the forest. It is an unfinishedness which is afflicting hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. We must resolve it and resolve it in constitutional terms, defining in 1975 as the starting point for the definition of the forest and using these aerial photographs, so that we can finally resolve this loose end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u414	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u415	And, yes, we are proposing interventions that have to do with public education, full autonomy of higher education institutions with state aid, but yes and also the possibility of establishing private universities, under the strict supervision of an independent authority. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have spoken so much about this issue, Mr Tsipras, but you have not found a word to say about Article 16. You didn't find a word to justify your inertia. You did not find a word to explain why it is progressive for Greece to be essentially the only country in the world - North Korea is not even included in this list, North Korea has a private university - because Greece is the only country in the world that does not allow private universities to be established. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You didn't find a word to tell our tens of thousands of students who choose to study at private universities abroad when they could do it in Greece. You did not find a word to tell the thousands of researchers who work at private universities abroad and could come to work in Greece. You have not found a word to say about the fact that Cyprus has achieved this without - I stress - diminishing the quality of public education, because for us public education is an unrealistic priority. Also, however, unnecessarily topical is our ability to transform Greece into a training centre for the whole of the south-eastern Mediterranean. And also our unnecessarily high priority is the right to free choice, it is deeply identified with the ideology of this ideology. If we have a free choice, Mr. Tsipras, in kindergarten and in school, why not have a free choice at university? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So I come back to what I told you before. I think that in the name of any political disagreement, no one can close two windows to the young people for tomorrow: the education with which they will build a better life and the environment in which they will have to live in health. That is why I ask you today - and if not you, I ask your Members - come to vote on the revision of Rule 16 and Rule 24 at least. And if you do not want to do so by an increased majority, let us do it at least a hundred and fifty-one Members. Do not deprive the next House of the opportunity to decide to review these articles and go back ten years! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have a heavy responsibility if you do. Even a hundred and fifty-five Members! And let the next House come with an increased majority to claim the wording of the articles. I will be waiting with great interest in your positions, either today or in the second debate, which will take place in a month from now. You have a month to think about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u416	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u417	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close with this remark: tomorrow's vote is not only crucial because it concerns the country's top law, because it is being tabled about a hundred days before the voice of the Greek people is heard, because on 26 May we will certainly have elections and the citizens will judge the attitude of each of us today. They will see who is with a progressive constitutional concept of the rule of law and who is ultimately in line with stagnation, which legally leads the country to institutional paralysis. In the balance, of course, the citizens will also put everything they have lived in the last four years: the memoranda, taxes, pension cuts, seizures and a new national wound, which recognises Macedonian identity, language and ethnicity to our neighbours. The government may close its eyes to the points of the times, ignore those who recommend moderateness and protection of institutions, even at the end of their term of office. The indications may multiply that in this election period you will use all unfair means. After all, the newspapers on your resignation are already prone to what you are planning. In democracies, however, there are no deadlocks. The elections do not only bring solution and clarity, restore the institutional order. A smooth political life cannot exist without a modern and democratic Charter and prosperity is not ultimately guaranteed without constitutional rules that encourage it. Because, yes, the quality of a country's institutions is ultimately inseparable from the level of its wealth and its economic prosperity. What investor will trust a bureaucratic administration, a state without a stable tax framework, without independent and rapid justice? What citizen will progress if the state does not provide him with opportunities, security and protection of his rights? And what democracy will eventually develop, without absolute discrimination of powers, protection of any minority, objective information and a right to quality public education for all? The truth is that good democracy is functional democracy, which also requires an operating constitution. That is why we will vote tomorrow, but that is why the Greek citizens will soon be voting on the first opportunity their voice will have to hear. And everyone knows that in every poll on 26 May the truth with lies, development with delay, national pride with national irresponsibility, but also institutional consistency with micro-participation. And I say it again: from every poll on Sunday, to the end of the country, the message of the great majority of the Greeks, who at last want their homeland to move forward will be heard. Because the Greeks can and we deserve better! We will achieve this, for a better life, with a better constitution, for all Greeks and for all Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u418	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-three students and students and two teachers from the 3rd General School of Ioannina. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u419	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u420	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I should like to inform you - if I am not a big mistake - that at the second meeting we will be holding after a month, the proposals, which will not be adopted tomorrow, are not put forward. To know that. They are not the same classes as the two sittings in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If I'm wrong, I'd beg by the end of the day to see it, so we all know exactly what's going to happen. Prime Minister, please want an intervention. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u421	Mr President, I am not going to get far, as I did in my first speech, and I did not need 56 seconds. Because, as Mr Mitsotakis said, it is not my constitutional thing. These are matters which are handled well by the one who knows the difference between the separation of powers and the social contract between Montesquieu and Russo. Let me speak more politically and not on the basis of the constitutional knowledge available to others. Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, the review process is a top political process. There have been revisions several times. In 1986, 2001, 2008, if I'm not mistaken. This unprecedented and unprecedented proposal has never been heard. So, who? No provision is neutral. There is an ideological pretext on our points of view. On the existing disagreements of the political forces on the provisions of the Constitution, one to vote on the views of the other, namely those to which it disagrees, in order to turn the next electoral process into a constitutional referendum. Because that is what you are proposing, at the same time that you do not dare to speak clearly about a referendum. You could say 'Come and have a referendum'. An unprecedented and innovative proposal that comes into direct conflict with the letter and logic of the legislature itself, which proposes this process. In fact, you are reproaching Giorgos Katrugalos, who, before entering the policy, had expressed an opinion on the need for a constitutional procedure. That is, basically, what you object to, that is what you propose. A editorial process you propose. And you suggest this at a time when you know very well that the differences between parties between critical issues are not present differences. You referred to very positive comments in the previous review process, in which together Members of the New Democracy and PASOK then you started the review process. So why didn't you, since you as a new Member, as you said, have always been in favour of the revision of Rule 86? Why didn't you then agree or suggest what you are proposing today? To open up, that is, all of them to be a roulette. Why didn't you suggest it then? As to the notorious Article 16, you have always had that view. I do not ask you to do so. But you know very well that what you call a progressive overtime at the place has another view. And PASOK then had another view on this matter. Not George Papandreou, but the basis of the movement then. So why didn't you do that? In any case, I will insist on the spirit and the letter of the legislator. Our Constitution shares review power on both Bulgarians. It requires, in other words, not just cross-party but also a time-consent to revise it. So it's paradoxical that the first House says alpha and the second one says beta. And it is completely paradoxical in a spirit and a letter lawmaker calling for time-consensual consent you instead of suggesting a gambling "stick all the means and whoever wins, take it all". This is not a serious proposal for a review procedure. He's new, he's unheard of. I won't answer everything, of course. Let me tell you that it is very elitistic that you have expressed your view in order to devise a substantial dialogue procedure that we have done for the Constitution and a committee, involving highly distinguished scientists. You deceived by saying that they were not experts of the Constitution. What I know is that the Constitution was born by the people and not by experts. In 1844 in the Constitutional Square - and that is why we call it this way - the people were calling 'Constitutional and Constitutional' and I think that powers are coming from the people, and that is why the revision process is not the sole prerogative and right of experts. Greece acquired a Cinema Constitution in 1843 against Ottoman domination, in the monarchal alumni. So let us not underestimate the editorial power exercised at that time by the Greek people. Today, however, we are not in such a period. Today we have a constitution that provides for the process and this process as planned by the legislator you come with roulette suggestions, gambling. I didn't expect that from the conservative party. Perhaps someone else could suggest it. You told us that this was a process of underestimation in the first place. I would remind you that in 1985 the committee lasted two weeks. But, in any case, I am not going to talk about this. I think that time was sufficient but the New Democracy within the committee did not participate with substantial proposals. For two months, you have not specifically told us which paragraphs you are asking to review but only articles. You were perhaps expecting your legal adviser to return from his training leave to suggest us which specific paragraphs you want to review. You didn't actually participate. Throughout the past period of dialogue both in social and political terms and within the House, you have changed to critical positions constantly. Today, with your position, of course, significant ideological differences have emerged. I believe that the debate on Article 16 has been exhausted as well as the debate on Article 24. You are asking, in other words, for a party which has fought for the protection of the natural environment to vote in favour of the revision of Article 24, when we have been fighting and fighting for decades to protect the natural environment. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, I shall refer in particular to what you said about the fifth axis of the changes that I have presented, those relating to the protection of social goods. In fact, you also made a cheap political comment. When we talk about the constitutionalisation of the social goods of public space and the social right to water and energy, we are obviously talking about the possibility of public control in the state. This does not mean that there can be no relocation. This means that 51%, the majority, in any case, management, will be and will be constitutionally regulated in the public sphere. However, you have spoken of wishes and provisions which are wishful. What are the wishes? Are those wishes which we are proposing to strengthen social rights? Is it a wish to guarantee the guaranteed income? Is universal access to health desirable as an obligation for the State to provide all citizens equally? Is it desirable to secure collective bargaining in constitutional terms? Sure. You deliver them overnight to collective bargaining. It is obvious that, through our differences and for the Constitution, a structural, ideological and political confrontation emerges. And the Greek people can understand what it is that we are protecting and want to protect in an international and European environment that is complex and difficult and who is your ideological core. In reality, what you are saying is that your positions are to be abolished, because that is what you want, namely to abolish what we call social rights and goods. I come to a final comment. There was essentially a confession today on the part of Mr Mitsotakis, a confession to the real political project in which he has also involved the institutional process of the revision of the Constitution. He told us a moment ago that we agree on the issue of the election of the President of the Republic, but we disagree on the content.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u422	As to how.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u423	Listen. The reality is that you have shaped and presented to the Greek people today on the basis of your political self-interest and not by seeing the Constitution over time, but by seeing the future political developments. The last time we debated this House on this issue, the view, which you made publicly, and which you have changed, was that of direct election, if there is no broad consensus on the election of the President of the Republic. Today, you are talking about institutional dissatisfaction with the direct election. And you are talking about institutional disharmony, because a President, you say, who will not find consensus in this House, how can he have increased consent from the people? Your mutations and displacements in this matter, unfortunately, prove to you political feasibility and political self-interest. Because today I took a bold step. I revealed the political game you're playing. I have caused you to take a concrete position, saying clearly that SYRIZA is not going to play any game with the President of the Republic, that SYRIZA will also propose in the new parliament the constitutionally anticipated renewal of the mandate of today's President, Prokopi Pavlopoulou, because I believe that he is an excellent President of the Republic, because we believe that the choice of the President of the Republic should have the broadest consensus, because in the face of the President of the Republic the consensus must be consolidated and the common will of most of the political forces is reflected, because he is expressing both the nation and representing the nation and the people. And you, Mr Mitsotakis, while in common, I threw this glove away, not only did you not raise this glove, but you spoke fifty-six minutes and avoided mentioning the name of today's President of the Republic. You spoke of the President as an institution, which is not to be involved in our political games, when that is exactly what you are doing. Mr. Mitsotakis, you know, so far I have had the feeling that Mr. Samaras and Mr. Georgiadis do not allow you to name the neighbour of Northern Macedonia under its new constitutional name. Today I see that you are not even allowed to mention the name of the President of the Republic. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because they have an opinion and they want the extremist wing of your party to play political games. It may also be a revelation. You have made your plans, you have made your agreements, you have shaped them. You know, in the end, they shave the groom, it says a proverb. Do not share positions, because after the next elections you will be back in the chairs of the opposition. You will not be reached by the MPs to propose and elect a President of the Republic. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The President of the Republic will be elected by the proposal of the new majority, which will again be with SYRIZA and will be the current President of the Republic, no matter how much you do not want it, because he is indeed an excellent President of the Hellenic Republic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u424	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u425	For a short time, Mr President. The President of the New Democracy, Mr. Mitsotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u426	I'll be brief. For some reason, Mr Tsipras, when you speak of the next elections, you are not going to give any particular assurance either you or your parliamentary group. And, as I told you, to the extent that you yourself discount the election result, why are you getting into this debate? What is this stress, which dominates you, to think from now on what New Democracy will do to surely win the next elections? Because that's what's bothering you. This stress is all due to this debate, a defeat management, and you are again trying to refer to people and not to our obligation to reach the right institutional interventions. It's a good thing you didn't ask me to say Mr. Pavlopoulou's VAT. That's the next one, which you should tell me! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You know I have an excellent relationship with Mr. Paulopoulos. I respect him and value him very much, and I think he is doing his duties very well. So this is to avoid any misunderstanding and attempt to distort your own people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u427	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u428	I now come to the question of the review procedure and the way in which the parliament proposed commits or does not commit or direct the revision House. Look - and this is addressed to you, Mr President - the Minutes of Parliament since the 2001 review. The minutes shall only refer to Articles and paragraphs and whether or not the Article or paragraph has been voted on. This was in 2001. This was done, Mr Katrugale, in 1986. That's what happened in 2008. In fact, where there was a joint proposal, it is said that the joint proposal is being adopted. However, there were also a number of articles, which brought together the increased majority, without finally comparing the proposals of the two groups that proposed them. That is how the vote was taken, Mr President, in all the previous revisions. And so it was simply for the reason that the vast majority of the constitutionalists agree with what I told you before, that the House cannot direct the next House on the content of the revised provisions, because there would simply be no reason to hold national elections. The national elections, therefore, Mr Tsipras, take the hamparily well, will also determine how to formulate those provisions that we will consider to be revised. And yes, since the provision concerning the election of the President of the Republic gathers more than one hundred eighty Members, then yes, the citizens will know that, if we win the elections, the President of the Republic will be elected by a simple majority if there is no increased majority and if you win the elections, we will again resort to election by the people, unless you are planning other tricks. Unless you plan to withdraw a number of forty of your Members from the vote, do not take a hundred and eighty of the relevant article to release the next House. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At least, here the KINAL and the Communist Party are clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u429	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u430	You have a position, Mr Loverdo, which says that we want a hundred and eighty Members in the second House, because we believe that the content of the review is more important than what articles will be judged to be revised, so the increased majority for the wording of the articles must go to the second House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u431	We've said it all along.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u432	That's a respectable place for you. I'm not a constitutionalist, but I think it's a political position. The Constitution does not say so, let us be clear, but it is a political interpretation. If you say the same, Mr. Tsipras, say it now. But here we are, and we will see the results of the vote. However, Mr President - and I am addressing you now - the vote and the votes should normally be recorded in exactly the same way as in all the previous revisions. I now come to your theory of protecting social rights, majorities and all these fine things you have told us. Explain what exactly are you protecting by not changing Article 16? Who are you protecting today? Are you protecting public education? And what are you protecting her from? From the private competition, from the osmosis with the market? Are you protecting the tens of thousands of children studying abroad who pay tuition fees at a university abroad? Are you protecting children studying in Greece in colleges, because Union law here prevails and through side procedures they get a diploma, which enables them to recognise professional rights, but does the state typically not recognize them? Are you protecting them? Are you protecting our researchers and teachers who are looking for work abroad? All you're protecting is our competitors, the other countries, that is, which have developed a dynamic private education market and you don't allow... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Yes, Cyprus is protecting it. Bulgaria is protecting it. Romania is protected, but you are certainly not protecting the country's interests. Because to repeat that the establishment of non-profit and private universities is a process that will take practical time. Tell me this, Mr. Tsipras. I've asked you before, and I haven't been answered. And I don't think I'm going to get an answer, because there's no real answer to what I'm giving you. We have glory of God's foundations very important with a very important print. You know, what you were fighting once, but now you are properly applauded and even photographed along with what you are donating. Luckily, at least you understood that. If tomorrow comes an important, great institution, as has been done in Turkey and says "I want to give 500 million to build a non-state, non-profit university in Greece...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u433	Will he have a tuition fee?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u434	Yes, it will.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u435	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u436	And the public universities have one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u437	Will it be for everyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u438	Be quiet, Mr. Katsi, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u439	Well, since you're talking, and because you show what you're talking about and a relative...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u440	Be quiet and shorten the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u441	No, wait a minute, we won't shorten the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u442	A little.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u443	We will take as much time as we need, Mr President. The constitution is at the bottom of the scripture. To make it easier for you to think, because, you see, you don't know things well. The large universities in America which are non-state, non-profit-making, have tuition fees. Non-profit are defined as those that do not divide dividends, so they reinvest their profits. Do you know what else they have? They have the financial capacity to offer to any student they cannot afford to study financially. Is that undemocratic? Is that right? Is that a capitalist? What is it at last? What you're doing is a deep idea. Can't you see the world has changed? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Wake up and see the world around you at last! Open your eyes and see what's going on. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Capitalist Bloomberg, Mayor of New York, went to his university and offered 1.6 billion euros so that the University of Johns Hopkins can provide a scholarship to any student who deserves to enter the university and does not have the financial capacity. Is that right? Is that a capitalist? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And why is this forbidden to happen in Greece? So you're showing a deep...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u444	Marinakis gave money too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u445	Please, Mr. Manier, we will never finish if you carry on like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u446	You told us about Article 24 and your interest in the environment. Am I not questioning your intentions, but are we protecting it by today's provision, which often creates areas in our country, which were forests, but have been built today, unsolved legal situations, which you are going to go through with provisions on housing density and other terrestrials, which are stumbled in the Constitution itself? Because you know you need to solve this. Are we protecting any forests that are no longer woods by sticking to that logic? And in any case, what did we say about Article 24? To put in a prediction of climate change. Aren't you concerned with climate change? Can't you see what's going on around us? Can't you see this is the biggest threat to the country? Do you not think that this should have a constitutional guarantee and you hide behind those chips that we should not change Article 24 because we are the fighters of the environment alone? Who are you protecting? Who do you really protect by not changing Article 24 in the direction that we propose, or in another direction that you propose? Indeed, Article 24, when it was written in 1975, was extremely innovative and indeed the case law of the Council of State might have been strict in many contexts, but it protected our country from extremes and forced the administration finally to carry out urban and spatial planning and to comply with the provisions of the Constitution. But that was forty-four years ago. So you can't come here today and say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u447	It has been reviewed, Mr President. There's been additions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u448	Some additions were made, in fact, to define the forest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u449	There have been serious and substantial additions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u450	Some additions were made. However, no other issues have been solved. And that was in 2001. It was seventeen years ago. Let's see the truth in the face now. I'm sorry, Mr. Tsipras, but a chance is missing. And the opportunity that is being lost is unfortunately to emerge through the reflected vote, unless we have shocking surprises, a commitment by the next House to some important articles not to be judged by a reviewer and never to come to the House for review. You have a personal responsibility for this. It's your personal responsibility, Alexis Tsipras, for the fact that a series of articles... Yeah, you're glad, you're laughing. Good for you guys, laugh! You have this irony. I don't really understand it. Leave these for the panels where you're going. So you have a personal responsibility, Mr Tsipras, for the fact that today for a number of important articles, not just Article 16 and Article 24, you have not said anything like justice. You like what's going on in justice, obviously. It's all good for you to hire. Because we have a provision that is incompatible for judges, so that Mrs Thanos does not come one day after she makes the consultant to you and then send her to an independent authority. Because that's what you did. You didn't say that. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So you all have a great responsibility. The next review, as it seems, will be a review less than what the country needs. Too bad for that, but it's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u451	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u452	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u453	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u454	Mr. Mitsotakis, I would suggest we do a special...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u455	Mr President, this is out of order!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u456	Just two minutes. You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u457	Please, Mr. Scandalidis. Finally, the proposals from both parties are to be voted on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u458	All right, I will say very soon that I propose to Mr Mitsotakis that we have a special debate on the issues of education and the environment, if you like. But look, do not shed crocodile tears and, above all, say that it is a pity for children who go abroad and study when you have disagreed with all the proposals that the government has put forward and implements to revise the map of higher education, which increases the positions of importers, which creates new public institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u459	Please don't react. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u460	You have a programme for reducing admissionees, disagree with the establishment of a Law School in Patras and you come and shed tears because our children go and study abroad. Rather, what cuts you a lot more than the institutional problem, as you mentioned it, is that there should be more customers to those who will come to speculate in the field of education as well. But I suggest we talk about this one more time. I would also suggest that you don't talk about justice so much. Where's Mr. Athanasios? He's not here? Has Mr. Athanasios left? He left the highest position of the judge to become Minister of Justice. Is that what you're going to tell us? So, all these years, where have you been? I would like to close up with the crucial issue of today's procedure. I've caused a lot of people to answer Mr. Mitsotakis. Does he pledge to support the current President of the Republic for his re-election or does he not commit?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u461	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u462	Mr. Mitsotakis has not committed himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u463	Please, everyone has the problem. You won't tell him. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u464	Maybe next time we can...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u465	Do not make matters that way. Don't react like that. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u466	You can tell us even the number of its tax register, but you will not commit to supporting it, because you have made other agreements and why you have a wing that does not leave you. Good insects, Mr. Mitsotakis. We caught you with the sprout on your back, which the people say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u467	Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue with Mr Leventis, I would like to clarify this. Mr Mitsotakis raised a matter in relation to the ballots. We had this debate in Parliament yesterday and today. We have come to that unanimously, because the conflict was in relation to the issue that has been analysed, whether or not and what it means to commit, etc. That's another matter. We have concluded that the ballot, which mentions the provisions of each party and the right of all Members to vote from all the votes, will be in the way that the party itself chooses. Already, I have a prototype in relation to the ballot. But it'll only be the title, what it'll be about. But if a party - in this case SYRIZA - wants to refer to a title in the direction it has in it, that cannot be different. We have therefore already formed the lists, after consultation with the responsible rapporteurs. From today, at 22.00 a.m., although the procedure will continue until tomorrow morning, the voting groups will also be given the vote so that Members can do their job in good time. Tomorrow at 10 a.m. the procedure will begin and the vote will take place at 11 a.m. We have reached agreement on this - I repeat - regardless of the disagreement that has been and in any way, which we discussed this morning in terms of bindingity or not. We have come to this together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u468	Mr President, I would like to ask a question on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u469	Here you go, Mrs. Canelle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u470	I just want to ask a question. You said the process would continue tomorrow morning...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u471	To this night...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u472	Let me ask my question. There are twenty-seven Members left. You have to tell us now, at this time, which of the political leaders and in what order will they speak...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u473	We said it before...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u474	Wait a minute. ...if ministers are intervening, and if between political leaders they will be intervening. Otherwise, we'll have to wait for it to end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u475	Mrs. Canelle, you're right. I'll let you know. It's about Mr. Leventis and Mr. Michaloliacos speaking from political leaders. It's to speak to Mr. Theodorakis with his status. Mr. Kammenos hasn't said anything. It's about the twenty-seven you said. It is only by ministers that the Minister for Justice, Mr Kalogerou and fellow Members should speak. That is what we believe until late in the evening has been closed so that tomorrow morning we can allow the rapporteurs three minutes to close the sitting and we can go to the vote at 11: 00.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u476	You want to say that the twenty-seven MPs, the list, after the end of the four...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u477	It's not four.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u478	It's four. There are three political leaders and one Minister. They are, therefore, four speakers. The list of twenty-seven speakers is now under way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u479	By 12 o'clock we'll go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u480	With a speaking time to each colleague seven minutes, it is more likely that by 12 o'clock the list will not end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u481	Perhaps five or six speakers will stay for tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u482	So that's how the process goes? Aren't they going to interact? Will the Chiefs speak after each other?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u483	Yeah. They had asked for it, they had set certain hours. It was not possible to keep the hours because you realized that we left outside...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u484	But nothing has been observed, Mr President. We started two cycles. The circles became six.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u485	Everyone will talk and we will be done sooner than what we said. We said Thursday at 13:00. Tomorrow at 11 noon, 11:30, the vote will begin. And it will begin in the sense that everyone will have made their ballots - you will get them in time - and you will simply be tabling the ballot. From today at 22.00 a.m., the parliamentary groups will have the ballots.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u486	Mr President, what name are we going today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u487	We'll figure it out in half an hour and say it. Mr. Leventis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u488	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I personally do not understand the meaning of this debate on the revision of the Constitution. For a revision of the Constitution we do when there is a minimum consensus, when there is a convergence of perceptions. Here the division of personalities and perceptions is a given one. And each one goes to bring her to the other. That's what's going on. At least, this is the case between SYRIZA and New Democracy. One is going to bring her to the other. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] They say SYRIZA represents progress and Mitsotakis represents maintenance. That's what they tell SYRIZA. So they divide the political field: progress is made by SYRIZA, maintenance by Mitsotakis. I think they're both maintenance. You will allow me to say that the way in which they think and act betrays maintenance for both of us. Where's the progress? Let us take the issue of the election of the President of the Republic. They say it's bad to have elections. Why is it wrong to have an election? Why are we afraid of elections? If the President is elected by the people, then we may have a two-pole conflict and have a diversion. Don't you remember how the diversion started in '65? The king had the right to stop the government. Thus, the anomaly, distances and then the junta of the colonists and the betrayal of Cyprus began with the clash of the two poles. That's how they started. Do you want us to elect the President of the Republic from the people to have authority? And what do you want to do with it? To clash with the Prime Minister? That's the most dangerous thing. Wherever they have the President of the Republic, the President of the Republic is the strong one and the Prime Minister is the decorative one. There are no two powerful cities in any constitution. This is precisely to save the conflict. It is stupid to suggest the election of the President of the Republic by the people. I don't understand that. Why do we want to avoid elections? What's the election? He's the devil with the linen, where the hell should he avoid the hamburger? When a government resorts to the people, either to re-elect or to come to power or other parties, if they are parties coalitions, it resorts to the most sacred thing that exists in a democracy, to the people. And here we are all discussing how to avoid the people. Mitsotakis says, "with a hundred and fifty one elected." But the President of the Republic is not representative. Tsipras says "to go to the people we elect me President of the Republic". Then we will be at risk of having two pole conflicts and diversions. Both of these people - and Mitsotakis and Tsipras - are dangerous with their suggestions. In practice, in all the constitutions of the world it has been shown that such proposals are not only fruitless, but are also dangerous. A few days ago, a month ago, a matter was raised that the Prime Minister did not have fifty - one. And they said there's the possibility of staying, he says, a government, and let it not have one hundred and fifty. And it goes out, the professor of law, George Cassimatis, and says that the spirit of the 1975 Constitution is still there, in all the revisions made, important articles were revised, the essentials remained the same - it is that the Prime Minister cannot exist with less than one hundred and fifty. That is why Tsipras asked again for a vote of confidence, because he could not remain a government without the hundreds of one. And I say that for Mr Kammenos to hear about it, which says that when Mitsotakis proposed distrust and added the power of Kammenos to his MPs, the motion of censure would not succeed. The motion of censure would not succeed, but if Kammenos belonged to the President of the Republic and said: "After Tsipras intends to sign the Ambassadors' Agreement, I take confidence in the government," the government would fall. Why does the Kammen constantly say that even if his MPs were added to the New Democracy MPs, he would not receive the hundreds of fifty - one. But it didn't take distrust to get a hundred and fifty one. If one of the two partners of the government coalition came to the President of the Republic, one day before the Embassy Agreement and took away his confidence in the government, the government would fall because it would lose fifty-one. Mr. Tsipras wants a neutral state. What would neutral religious state mean? Do we not recognise that Orthodox religion is the official religion of the Greek state? Don't we recognize it? So when the Papafleses and the Athanasians were free, were they nice to shed their blood? Now we've become modern leftists, and we've forgotten who liberated us, and we're going to put the Mormons and the Jews on the same fate as Orthodoxy? Is that what we're gonna do? Is that the thanks to a religion that makes its mistakes? Because where there are worldly offices there will also be mistakes. It's a secular office, and the destiny and the clergyman. But we respect faith as faith. We don't depend on her not making mistakes. Loyalty officials can make many mistakes. The faith of the Greek people must remain unshakable if it is within us rooted. That's what I feel. It is not an honest thing for others to play games and others, in the name of a so-called modernisation, to want to level them up. And neither is it fair for the Prime Minister to conduct secret talks with the Archbishop. That's not fair. The Church of Greece is also commanded in association with the Church of Greece and the ten thousand clergy whom the Archbishop ignored. Tsipras held secret talks for a year and a half without informing the House, without informing anyone, and the Archbishop held talks without the Patriarch knowing it, without the Holy Synod knowing it and above all without the ten thousand clergy knowing it, whose fate was played in the negotiations that took place and that is not moral. One of the scourges that this country has is rousphetti. Did we do anything about the criminalization of the roussetti? Did we do something to exterminate this carcinoma? Oh, no. We have had enough to say that everything will be done through ADP. However, I have the following complaint to the effect that this is happening: they put very difficult issues so that everyone can hand over a white glue so that it can then pass through the middle. You know that, honourable Members, that? You don't know that. You're learning it now, aren't you? You're discovering America now. The middle still passes, gentlemen. Why do citizens come to our offices and ask us to intervene, since there is an IAP? Since there is a witness that the media doesn't pass, why do we have constant arrivals in the political offices asking for help? Is all these citizens in error? He's not in the wrong, they know well that in this place he's going through the middle. And when the Prime Minister says he'll put thirty thousand people in public, does he mean citizens of anyone? Is that what he means? It doesn't mean it that way, no matter how much you're blaspheming it. You don't believe it, of course, you know what's going on. The rushphetti should have been banned from the Constitution. Once there is evidence or document that a party or a MP or a party had to be represented, the Member had to lose his status. It cannot continue this poison by means, that the Greek citizen does not trust the state. They don't trust it today. It's been so disgraceful over the last forty years. And what did PASOK do? First he appointed a million people and then made the law of Pepponi. After all of Greece joined the public, then the law of Pennon: "We stop", after it filled the public and did not have any other countries. Anyway. One of the other serious issues is that Members should not be translated, because this gives rise to public life. Changes from MPs and their transfer to other parties, especially when elected on a list of the parties, are the most dishonest thing. And even more dishonest are the ones who are being accepted and registered in the parliamentary groups. They're scramblers, they're even more dishonest. It is dishonest for the apostate to leave a party and not to hand over the seat, but it is the most dishonest one who accepts and shares him as the force of the Group's parliamentary group. And you know, today in the hundreds of fifty, there is a Member of the Central Association who is fifty-one of the vote of confidence. You know exactly what I mean. We proposed that the participation of workers in the profits of large businesses should be introduced as a Central Association. The worker gets a wage, which is presumptionally too low. With the exception of some businesses where workers are well paid, in the vast majority of the remaining businesses, pay is very small. They reach antisocial low levels. It is therefore appropriate to establish a percentage of each undertaking's annual profits to be distributed to workers working all year round in the company. This is very important. It will give workers the urge to offer production and productivity and to increase the dynamics of the economy. This is what Archbishop Petzetakis did and from a business with thirteen employees, he finally had a business with four thousand employees that man. On this trivial, but very important in the end, and beneficial for the wages of the secret workers, the rise of Aristovoulos Petzetaki was based. There is also a foreign paragraph that when a country exceeds 3% of the annual deficit, the Prime Minister should be referred back. In Germany, if the annual deficit is over 3%, it is brought to justice, to the prosecutor in question. Here's 15% of Caramanlis had gone, and he was buying a field. There is no control over how much the deficit is going. We had to put this in the Constitution, as well, and when bonds are issued, that Parliament approves the bond issue, that Parliament takes responsibility for bonds, and not in secret, for the Minister of Finance to issue bonds, and that we find the bond after five years, and say it was hidden somewhere, we recovered it and we have to pay it. The bond issue must be approved by Parliament and by the annual deficit, when it exceeds 3%, the Prime Minister must be brought to justice. With regard to the simple analogue, Tsipras suggests it without believing it. I voted for the simple analogue. The Centroon Union, when it brought it, we went and voted for it. We were the only party. Not even the PASOK voted for it. No one voted for the simple analogue. The Golden Dawn did not vote for it either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u489	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u490	Oh, no. We only as a Centro Association because they were in our beginnings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u491	You're reducing us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u492	You'll speak, Mr. Michalliac. I'll talk to you. Don't be in a hurry. I had recommended to Mr. Tsipras that you should not bring the simple analogue to the vote. Because the simple analogue creates a climate of consensus, the most important thing is not to pass bills with a hundred and fifty two, trying to spend it with two hundred and twenty. You'd better not pass it at all, if it's with a marginal majority, because the act will expel them and society won't accept them. And to convince you, in fact, want the simple analogue, you have to sacrifice a share of power for the sake of convergence and consensus and pass the bills with two hundred and twenty. That's how you'll convince. Otherwise, if governments like Mitsotakis or Samaras the previous one, and marginally a hundred and fifty-one, you pass the bills, how are you going to convince that you believe in the simple analogue? Simple analogue is a big step that the place will take for the definitive change of page. How will you convince that you will take this step when you continue to exercise power in a similar way to the previous ones of the reinforced analogue prime minister? In the media there is still chaos. Whoever they want, they call. I've been watching all day. One of KINAL's going, one of SYRIZA's, one is New Democracy. There isn't! We get to the ER and they say we make complaints. Should we not have in the Constitution that either state television or privately licensed media respect a certain proportion of both MPs and parties? Shouldn't we put it? What do we want to see Revision of the Constitution from the time we are blinded in front of such major problems? Elections will come. How are there going to be elections? As anyone wants? Will anyone call? Are these elections? Is this a good result? So, the six intercepts, which we denounced, are they going to continue to spread the lives of the country? In the polls we asked and agreed that Tsipras had agreed an independent control authority on the findings. It has to be done, he says. But what did they do? They've been cozy. SYRIZA's making polls that he's ready, approaching New Democracy. New Democracy makes twelve out of fifteen units different from SYRIZA. This mess is served both of us. Why should they do an independent principle, since they only care about the fanaticism and polarization of society, blind the world and take it back to the polls? That's all they care about and nothing else. Mr. Mitsotakis wants private universities, and he wants them very well. If we were a normal country, the simplest thing we could have is to give approval and be done. Zimbabwe also has private universities. Why should Greece not have a European Union state private universities? However, the point here is that if we issue licences for the establishment of private universities, what happens with the ERT. ERT was the first television station in the country. The state television station was ERT. And private channels were founded. They paid three times the wages that ERT gave. Terrence Quick was at the ERT. Stay was at ERT. All the names were at the ERT. They paid three times the wages, and the private channels took the journalists. That's how ERT was deceived. Now to see ERT - and I am sorry to say this, because it is a channel that could be the road map of pluralism - it must have Eurovision or football. Only then is he listening, because, unfortunately, emissions obey the government, and that is wrong because spectacle is exterminated. That's how spectacle is exterminated. The establishment of private stations has therefore reaped ERT. The same could be true of private universities. The most recent teachers in the universities will be given five times the wages of private universities and state will be devalued. Only Mr. Mitsotakis forgets it takes 12,000 to 15,000 a year to tuition each parent for his child to the private universities. He said a percentage of posts would be scholarships. Are we going to rely on scholarships? When state universities are deceived and when the most famous teachers are guided by higher private wages, will we rely on the scholarships and the enthusiasm that privateers will give? Is Mr. Mitsotakis serious? First, we need to redeem the state universities, get the partition out of there, get those who act like a piece of dogs inside the universities, whether they're teachers or students. This climate exists in universities. As far as drugs are concerned, they are in university spaces. This must be stopped, state universities must be made redundant, be able to compete with private people and then issue licences for the establishment of private universities. Otherwise, if, as it is now, we give permission to private universities, they will stop studying the children of the poor and the free education of George Papandreou will go for a walk and only the children of the rich will study. This is gonna happen, gentlemen. The Association of Centres is in favour of establishing private universities, but since state universities are first made redundant. He said the Prime Minister is not a technocrat. It must be from the House. I ask one question: if this is the way the fate of the House does not have a person to lift the burden of the country's governance and we must address a person of Greek technocrats, that will be forbidden? Do you know who PASOK proposed in Papademos' day? The Petsalnico. Mr. Petsalnikos might have been highly valued, but he was endured at the time when our euro stay, the fate of the country, was playing? I do not understand why he should not be a technocrat and be in this Chamber. Only in this Chamber are the wise ones? Why this blockade? I don't get it. Is this the only room that can get Prime Ministers out? And if the Chamber fails, will the country remain ungrateful? What kind of crazy are these? You also said about the twelfth year for Members. On this I have no objection, but if Eleftherios Venizelos lived, if Andreas Papandreou lived, we would tell him Andreas Papandreou: "You have completed twelve years, go home now! Mr Scandalides must now take over.' Is that what we were going to tell him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u493	Why do you mention me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u494	I am not talking about you, as an example I mentioned, because you are before me. I appreciate you, you know that. There are some times when a country's fate is linked to some individuals. These generalisations, the exclusions are extreme. The Chamber may have been filled with familydom, it may have worked out in this Chamber for the MPs to leave and put their child, their nephew, their grandson, but not to extremes. It's an extreme point of exclusion. You don't know how fate will bring it, how the country will need to put a man at her wheel in order to get away with it. I would like to state before I leave Stepa that I will obviously not vote on any of the articles in the Review of the Constitution - I regret to say this - because I think it is ridiculous that SYRIZA, but New Democracy, has other articles to review. And a revision prerequisite is for there to be a minimum consensus. Since there is no such minimum of consensus, they fight to mock and make each other’s proposals to apply them at a hundred and fifty - one in the next parliament. So the Review and all that they say, "Tsipras in the yard, who was picking up and making announcements," will be written in history like the marriage of Karakiozis. I just want to say about Macedonia, why did a journalist ask me: 'Will you call it Northern Macedonia?' He asked me today. Listen, gentlemen, since the decision was taken without a referendum, without a council of Heads, without asking the Greek people and given that the Greek people were a huge majority opposite, I personally regret, but from whatever institutional position I have in the future, I will not say it "North Macedonia". I have said that following the elections, the Centroon Union calls for increased confidence in the Greek people and I will set a condition to support government - not to get ministries, not to take plunder and exchanges, secretaries, I do not want anything - along with the eleven points that the Centro Association has - which are of interest to the country, do not concern me or any of the Members of the Centro Association - to accept any Prime Minister who is, to make a retrospective referendum, to see whether the Greek people agree with this crime, which was granted the name of Macedonia. I've sworn it, I won't retreat. I call it public. I would also ask that this step be taken to support the Greek people in holding a referendum after the elections in order to legalise or illegalize the Prespes - I am sure the Greek people will illegally put the Prespes - and cancel the agreement by means of a declaration we will make in the United Nations and the major powers. It is a crime that has been committed by a particular party and a Prime Minister, which we Greeks cannot swallow. We can be poor, we can cut off pensions and salaries, we can betray Macedonia!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u495	Mr Michaliokos, the President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, has the floor. I appeal to you, Mr Michaloliakos, for the time, not that I choose you, but I see that we still have many speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u496	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, those of you who have left this Chamber - as far as time is concerned, Madam President, I am not going to violate him. I don't think it's worth the trouble of breaking him. I shall, however, deal first with the dialogue between the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff Responsibility, which lasted longer than two hours. And I'll point out that I said to talk at five and a half this afternoon, and I'm talking now. However, I will also give an explanation why Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis came out at this time: because they are so popular, their speeches are so interesting that they could not stand against the Olympiacos- Panathinaikos derby in basketball, which started at eight o'clock at night. This is the country's political life! As far as the time I have spoken is concerned, although our party has come third in the last elections, you have chosen to speak last. If there were any other parties, you'd put us back even further, but unfortunately you're out of your mind. You have broken up two parties for the well-known reasons. Before I refer to the Revision of the Constitution, however, I wonder about your courage to talk about the Constitution and I have in front of me an answer from many of the SYRIZA ministers to the Members of the Golden Dawn when they ask questions. This answer says: "We will inform you that in the face of pending trial for the establishment of a criminal organisation, in which the participation and integration of the majority of the Members of the Golden Dawn are investigated, we will refrain from responding to the questions put to us by the above-mentioned member of the Golden Dawn for constitutional and parliamentary reasons". And I searched for the Constitution and the Constitution says exactly the opposite, that you are obliged, Mr. Famele - that you are in the Chamber - to answer. And don't think you'll save your Bolshevik honor as "I repentant Magdalene", at the same time as you've become NATO's puppy, not answering the Golden Dawn. On substance, the presumption of the innocence of the defendant, who you do not respect, has been established for the first time since the French Revolution - which you believe, we do not believe it - in the Declaration of Human Rights and Citizens in Article 9. Today it is enshrined in Article 6(2) of the European Convention on Human Rights. This presumption means that every man is considered innocent until proven guilty and the state through its organs has to prove the guiltyness of the defendant and not the accused of his innocence. And you, before justice, condemn us. You are portraying the social democrats, but behind the lacquer of this social democracy - which you painted with a lot of PASOK officials and many statements of good cooperation with NATO - behind this lacquer of social democracy remains the Bolshevik who believes in no freedom and no democracy. Example. You were angry days ago because some citizens not only in Macedonia, but also throughout Greece, reacted to the Prespecies Agreement. And you denounced them a little bit as terrorists. And yet, terrorist attack took place against the Golden Dawn offices at the dawn of Monday 11 February two days ago by the well-known strangers of the "red" paratroopers you never arrest. At three o'clock the attack was made, laddered, climbed the first floor, undisturbed, centrally next to the new highway. They were burned by political offices. And symptomically this attack took place at the same time as an entire system declared appalling by the rise of the Golden Dawn. In addition, the same office was attacked in June 2017. We had drawn attention to the competent authorities, but they did not pay any attention. I repeat to the Greek people as it has been able to see this image through only one television station that is mandatory and cannot be cut off, the Channel of Parliament, which - not least - has been Members of the Greek Parliament since 2012 and has not devoted one minute to a member of the Golden Dawn. Is that a democracy? Shame on you! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] As for the famous political service against the Golden Dawn, it is admitted by its architects themselves - literally and transportly - that, like Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who said on Friday, February 8: "It was the New Democracy, which led the Golden Dawn to the stand. But you insist on forgetting them. They don't suit you. So don't take New Democracy into your mouth and make unscrupulous references to the extreme right and finally stop slandering the spontaneous patriotic reaction to the Prespecies Agreement. Oh, so so! The New Democracy led Golden Dawn to the stand and no justice! As far as the'spontaneous patriotic reaction to the Ambassadors' agreement is concerned, I know that the New Democracy today does not commit to canceling the agreement. He says he'll respect her. Its prominent members say that they will call the state of Skopje "North Macedonia". We as Golden Dawn declare it: There is no state of North Macedonia for us! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] But we have a conflict here. On the one hand, New Democracy is addressed to SYRIZA and says it cooperates with Golden Dawn and is sponsor of the Golden Dawn. SYRIZA again launches arrows to New Democracy that strengthens Golden Dawn. Don't fight. Neither the New Democracy nor SYRIZA strengthens it. The Greek people amplify it. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] In fact, we have elements of quality in political research that should concern you, such as the fact that the second party in youths between seven and thirty-four years of age is Golden Dawn, and that the first party in farmers, with more than 20%, is Golden Dawn. Neither New Democracy nor SYRIZA did that. Golden Dawn fighters and a whole people who sees, under our banners, the only hope for freedom, for restoring national honor and dignity. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Mr Tsipras spoke about many things, and Mr Mitsotakis also answered Mr Mitsotakis. I will be standing in my speech of 14 November 2018 when the first debate on the Revision of the Constitution took place. I referred to Article 4 which stipulates that the Greeks are equal before the law and paragraph 6 of Article 4 which states that "any Greek who can carry weapons shall be obliged to contribute to the defence of the country, in accordance with the definitions of the laws". And, of course, there was the 2001 Review of the Simitis, which stipulates that the provision of paragraph 6 does not prevent the so-called ‘alternative term’ from being provided by law. We proposed that the alternative term be abolished. All Greeks in the army. In fact, according to the proposal of the Golden Dawn, it must be compulsory for men and women to be recruited over eighteen years, because only in this way will the staff problems be addressed in our Armed Forces. Of course, we have not received an answer to this question and neither have we the possibility, due to the limited number of Members of Parliament, to propose specific things for the revision of the Constitution. We passed in Article 3 for which, when Mr Mitsotakis made certain conditions for the revised articles of the SYRIZA to be accepted and accepted by SYRIZA, he did not mention Article 3. He mentioned Article 16 for private universities and Article 24. Article 3, which leaves thousands of Greek families, the families of the staff of the sacred clergy of Greece in one uncertainty, is not guaranteed in the public sector. Above all, however, SYRIZA's proposal for the revision of Article 3 says: "We propose recasting and modernising Article 3 in order to expressly guarantee the religious neutrality of the State, but retaining for historical reasons the recognition of Orthodox religion as a prevailing religion". However, it also says in particular: "Article 3 is mixed with our proposal in one paragraph and the declaration that the Greek state is religiously neutral and that there is no predominant religion is being proclaimed. It is not the term “predominant religion” means the recognition of official state religion.’ We consider the review of this article to be a real bomb on the foundations of the Greek state, as established by the First National Assembly of the Greeks. I read you from the declaration of Epidaurus of January 1, 1822 "The Temporary Citizenship of Greece": "In the name of the Holy and Indivisible Trinity, the Greek Nation, the horrific Ottoman, is able to bring the heaviest and extinct yoke of tyranny and have removed them with great sacrifice, it declares them today through its legitimate representatives, to a National Assembly, before God and man, his political existence and independence." In the name of the Holy Trinity, the Greek state was founded. It was not founded in the name of any liberalism, no French Revolution, in the name of Christ and Greece our state was founded. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] You can't dismantle it and know it's very comical to play the role of Danton, Robespierre, St. Just being really a historical parenthesis at the place. But to all of you, general McGyannis answers, who was robbed by the Left, who during the difficult years of the Bavarian rulership had written: "And now some of our rulers of Greeks, sowing the Jewish, who told us to erase the holy faith, Orthodoxy, because Francia doesn't want us with such a dress orthodox." This is what General Makriyannis said, whom you are liking, and you should consider that what you do is a tower in the sand. Also, in my report on the Revision of the Constitution in November 2018, I mentioned in Article 27, which allows for changing the boundaries of the rule with an absolute majority of the total number of MPs. And I come to Article 28 which has concerned us and which you are reviewing by speaking of referendums. Indeed, the more serious issue is the electoral law or the Yunker proposal you brought it to a referendum, so that the majority of eighty votes are required, from the issue of Macedonia, which is recent, and for which you did not vote? And since this was mentioned by previous speaker, we sixteen Members of the Golden Dawn tabled a motion for a referendum to all Members of the Greek Parliament and we did not receive a reply. Our position is that a referendum should be held on the subject of Macedonia. With regard to Rule 62 - parliamentary immunity - and Rule 86 - immunity of Ministers, if you wish - you say a great lie in this House, that you change it. You're not changing anything. They remain exactly the same procedures. And let it go, saying if it's not civil offense and it's a different charge. Genesis, which runs out of all kinds of fraud. What other charge? Here, in Parliament, since 1974 you have given parliamentary immunity for uncovered cheques, beatings, slanders. Recently, you have freed your once-in-a-lifetime partner - and for me, even your partner - Panos Kammenos for slandering. In the context of political duties is slandering? We will not vote for your Review and we hope that we will once have the majority, that a Constitution to which the alternative term will be abolished will be passed, that Article 28 on national sovereignty will be abolished. We believe in a free Greece and not a protectorate. And protectorate is a state that by law can empower its national sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u497	I invite Mr. Stavros Theodorakis to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u498	Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with an image of my puberty. End of the 1970 ’ s, Arsaceo Megaron, where the courts once were. Patrols stop in Santaroza and download the "bait" of the night. Among them, adultery, women and men, i.e. naked, wrapped with sheets, tied to each pair with handcuffs, see them as the prosecutor, testify to adultery. That was then the normal, legal, moral, until Andreas Papandreou arrived in 1981 and decriminates adultery through strong protests from the Church, but - take note - of the New Democracy. The laws, therefore, the rules, the institutional framework and finally the Constitution are not written on granite plates. They must change, they must converging with the evolution of society, science and culture and eventually go near and respond to the needs of the citizens. The proposal that Potami makes is to change - and we will insist - first of all, Article 110 of the Constitution. The Constitutional Review cannot continue to be a marathon process, to think of something today and to implement it after seven, eight, ten years. It must stop being Greece. We propose that the House should be able to revise articles in the Constitution by a majority of 2/3. The new Constitution must guarantee solidarity between generations, safeguarding all rights to all citizens, protecting biodiversity and tackling climate change. Transnational justice, modern individual rights, biodiversity cannot be amendments to a bill. They must now be constitutional rules. We are going on top of the important issues that should concern us. The Vice-President of the River, Mr George Mavrotas, has said so clearly and clearly. Non-State Universities: I want to start with this. The irrationality, I thought you, too, decided, gentlemen of SYRIZA, that it had to end. The country here should, on this issue, cease to be South Balkans. We've already wasted a lot of time and a lot of money. Turkey - you know, we've said it before - has more than fifty thousand foreign students in its private universities. Mr Tsipras, moreover, if I remember correctly, is the same honorary doctorate of a private university in Smyrna, a trophy from a previous visit to Turkey. So, ladies of SYRIZA, the logic of the junta, which then said that private universities will destroy education, because state control will stop. Mr Tsipras said to the House: 'I do not do non-State universities, because then the education budget must be shared in public and non-State universities'. It's a lie. Either they have misinformed or misinformed the House and the people themselves. We are specifically proposing, in order to respond to this problem posed by the government, to follow the example of Spain and Germany and to expressly prohibit the financial support of non-State universities from the state budget. Let's go to the main theme: President of the Republic. We have a proposal that we thought could be accepted. What do you say? That is the question of everyone: we have the first three votes. If, then, after the third vote, it turns out that we have no president, what are we doing? We say, therefore, that the election can be done with a mere analogue from an enlarged selective body. We have the Members who vote on the three votes. We add the MEPs. Why does a Member of the European Parliament not have an opinion on the election of the President of the Republic? We therefore propose an enlarged electorate with the Members of Parliament, the district governors and the mayors of the twenty largest municipalities. It is a proposal that we have taken from the constitutionalist, Mr Alivizato, and it is a proposal that responds to the deadlock and to the proposal, which I consider to have elements of populism, to resort to the people to cover our deadlock. It is split between SYRIZA's proposal, that is to say, to resort to the people, because Parliament cannot vote for the President of the Republic. We are pleased that the New Democracy has changed its position, because at the beginning of the winter it also supported this election of the President of democracy by the people. State-Church relations. We must dare and must show courage to the Church. As Stavros Tsakakis wrote, the separation of State and Church requires seriousness, alliance with the believers, who realize that separation will be beneficial not only to the state but also to their own religion, with absolute respect, of course, to the faith of everyone and the right of his worship. It does not mean progress - and here I am addressing the New Democracy - on terms of the 19th century. And it is hypocritical - I now refer to SYRIZA's colleagues - to speak of religious neutrality. You are calling on us to change Article 3 together and you are not touching Article 16(2), which says that the state - take note of the state - not the Church, has as its task the development of religious conscience, not democratic conscience. We must therefore also change Article 16(2) if we want to change the chapter of the relations between the Church and the State. Justice. We propose that the choice of the leadership of justice should not be the responsibility of the executive. To select the chairmen of the Supreme Courts by the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of Parliament by a majority of 3/5 members of it between five officials of each Supreme Court, who will have been designated by secret ballot of their full-length. If no proposal is drawn up by a majority of 3/5, the President of the Republic will decide. Rights: We will insist on saying that all rights to homosexuals do not threaten the Greek family and of course do not threaten homeland, as some people say even today. No one is in danger of respect for reality. On the contrary, we are at risk of hypocrisy and oppression. Diversity in sexual orientation must be a right written in our Constitution and does not make any second-class citizen. They are also taxpayers, they are voters, they are farmers, they are scientists, they are entrepreneurs, they are politicians, they are unemployed, they are some of us and they are not small-scale people. Let us go to the last major chapter: Immigration of Ministers and parliamentary immunity. Are the politicians something different? Is this another caste? Do they belong to a caste other than the rest of the citizens? That is the question, and that is what needs to be answered. Obviously, we are all going to say that the answer is 'no' and we are all going to say that it is incomprehensible that the offences of the Ministers should be dropped much faster than those of the citizens. But I wonder why the House refuses, why do the two major parties refuse to modernise the immunity of Members? Why do you want the two major parties to be the ones to decide who will have immunity and who will not? Why do you want a transaction and a small-party sale? In particular, we propose that the immunity of Members should no longer be the responsibility of Parliament, that majority voting should not be set up, but that it should be decided by a judicial board with a majority of judges and prosecutors of the court. Ladies and gentlemen, I will insist: to see Greece otherwise - this is what the Potami wants - the House otherwise, the Constitution will have to try a lot. We're not optimistic. Conservation and populism are in the nature of parties and power systems. It proves this and the presence and evolution and course of your government. That is why the citizens must strengthen a separate voice that is not demolished, plundered and silent in the face of the fear of political costs. This voice in Greece today is unfortunately only the voice of the Potami, the liberal voice that dares in the Constitution's case to say at the same time "yes" to non-state universities, "yes" to religious neutrality. No other party dares to say this self-evidently in a country that we want to be modern and European. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u499	Thank you, too. We shall now continue with the list of speakers. The first speaker, after everything he has done, is Mr Koutsoukos from the Democratic Partnership. Then there's Mrs. Triantafyllou, and then I'll give the floor to Mr. Ilioopoulos. Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u500	Ladies and gentlemen, we have lived up to Mr Tsipras' confrontation with Mr Mitsotakis, far from the spirit of the debate that has to govern a top-level process, such as the constitutional review and far from what we agreed yesterday with the President of Parliament that the constitutional review is exclusive right and power of the people to the Members rather than the Heads of State or Government. In any case, the only thing that did not arise from this confrontation between Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis is that the Constitution must also say the name of the President of the Republic, namely "constitutional" the election of Mr. Prokopios Pavlopoulou through this proposal by Mr. Tsipras, because otherwise the controversy was void - so that I do not use more heavy expression - of the type - "you vote our own proposals, to vote on yours". Obviously this controversy is, as I have said, a vacancy of content and the process is defying. I would like to begin my position with two issues arising from Mr Tsipras's systemic strife. Mr Loverdos made a statement in the Minutes - he did not want to interrupt the debate - which says that Mr Tsipras, in front of his deadlock and in his confession, presents scenarios for participation of the Change Movement with New Democracy in the election of a President of the Republic with fifty-one votes. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not our concern. Obviously it manifests Mr Tsipras' fear of our presence in the next House, which we believe will be strong. As Mrs Gennimata and our rapporteurs have explained, we - and I believe that we will manage, overthrowing political correlations - to be part of the majority of eighty-eight Members who will determine the substance of the revised provisions of the Constitution, because this is the real problem of constitutional reform and the next election. The other stress of Mr Tsipras - which is a system which turns around - was that in 2008 in the Review we were unable to revise the report on the responsibility of Ministers. I would like to remind young Mr Tsipras, who has a memoir of loots, that I am a little older, but not too old to forget, that the only provision that was revised after our departure from Parliament because of the drunkenness that Mr Tragakis has made at the time in Rule 24 was the vote on the abolition of incompatibility. A single article was revised in 2008. That is why that Review, agreed by the New Democracy with the leadership of SYRIZA, was destroyed. That's all Mr. Tsipras can learn. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to some of the issues I wanted to raise with my position. I would like to start by saying again by Mr Tsipras, who spoke about a dialogue that was wide-ranging with social movements, the experience of the Memorandum, its proposals to strengthen Parliament and so on. I have the impression that Mr Tsipras has been talking to another House and on another subject, because he is deceiving a key question that has not been answered: why this review, which has been made, in terms of theatrical terms, for some two years now, has resulted in a thorough process and indeed with an attempt by the Bureau of Parliament not to speak, to which the groups have reacted together yesterday, and that has changed. My personal view is that this process has been degraded precisely because it results from the content of the provisions to be revised - that is, their small scope, but also their content - that it is a very defensive and 'conservative' - I would say - a review, which is far too short of the changes necessary to adapt our democracy to new developments and to the fastest-changing conditions of public policy, and much more that has been carried out in a climate of parties and institutional intervention, not to say a diversion. I will use some examples to support my claims. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, has it not been time after so many years of post-multiple change of the model of exercise of power and enable local communities, through the strengthening of the role, economic resources and self-government, to exert policies with proximity and subsidiarity, rather than having them in the central state? Isn't that a bold and progressive policy? Are you doing anything about this? Oh, no. Your only meaning is to institutionalise the simple analogue and supposed referendums at local level. It is not, ladies and gentlemen, a major issue for a progressive policy to see the effects of rapidly changing developments in the field of technology, how do they affect the production and distribution of goods and restrict the exercise of public policies, and therefore to establish and safeguard those individual rights of citizens, but also a policy of fair distribution of wealth, in view of the conditions created by the so-called fourth industrial revolution? Obviously, it is a progressive policy that you do not pursue. Is it not a question of awarding justice, speed and efficiency, of regulating the constitutional issues relating to how to organise justice? Is not a progressive policy an effective policy for the administration's obligations towards citizens from the smuggling of the interpretation of flexibility and arbitraryness, on the basis of the proposal we have put forward? No such welfare. Is it not, in any case, a conclusion that should be drawn from the long-standing Memorandum Crisis that our country is going through how the heavy commitments imposed every time in our country are dealt with, with what consensuss and majorities? That's a classic example of the superstition. Didn't we draw any conclusions? And finally, ladies and gentlemen, is it not very horrendous to see that we are upgrading public universities through healthy competition with rules and conditions with non-State universities? These are progressive policies. That's why your reform is awesome. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, in order to address these issues, we have tabled a number of proposals. Our rapporteurs have presented them. They are validated by the Conference of Change Movement. Mrs. Gennimatas sent them to the political leaders, Mr. Mitsotakis, Mr. Tsipras. They prosecuted the island for so long and today they came here to raise the tons of confrontation to say that there is a real dialogue on the Constitution. Hey, no! There was no real dialogue on the Constitution. The approach the majority has in mind is how to control developments after the elections. That is what he thinks - it makes sense - and Mr Mitsotakis also. In order to finish and not to abuse the time, ladies and gentlemen, we have said in every way that we claim what I said at the beginning through the next elections to be a force that will determine developments and will not let a single act be played with unique roles to Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis. I want no one to misunderstood us on this, because we are in a pre-election period and understand the purposes and purposes of those who are projecting and those who are undermining our line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u501	Before I give the floor to Mrs Maria Triantafyllou by SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how Parliament is organised, nineteen students and students and three educational sessions of Karyas Lefkadas. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mrs. Triantafel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u502	Thank you, Madam President. I think that the way the debate is unfolding from the previous speaker is that everyone has a look at the post-elections, and so I think that, when we are discussing issues of the Constitution, just like today, we should ask ourselves who is finally playing with the Constitution, and indeed, when we see, even self-evident changes - self-evident in the sense of consensus, agreements - they cannot finally qualify, they should not be promoted, precisely because, as has been said by prominent KINAL officials, the Constitutional Review should come into better conditions and these better conditions have to do with the SYRIZA defeat strategy, with the overwhelming defeat of SYRIZA. I would like to say this: there are today arguments which have been made by the Opposition and which are condensed, beyond what I said before, that they are basically exploiting - and above all the Golden Dawn - popular and social religiousity, popular patriotism and I think that the New Democracy is, unfortunately, entering into this process. The Constitutional Review is a top process, everyone said so, since we are talking about the country's Charter. His execution showed gaps and deficits in need of changes and treatments. And why now? Is this another communication trick of the government ahead of elections? In my view, it is a foolish argument, in the sense that elections usually do not win any of the constitutional revisions. However, we must say a few words about the juncture. The third programme has been completed, the third memorandum after ten years of economic crisis, which has also built up the country's social and political life, which have dismantled social structures, which have earned the employment rights, which have deregulation of the labour market. And, furthermore, democracy was hurt. Pan-European and global there is a tendency to circumvent or abolish the principles of legality guaranteeing human social and labour rights. There are forces that attack international law that threaten national sovereignty of states. In this new era, in this political context, which in a short time the new Greek state has been completing two hundred years of historical existence, I think it is appropriate to have a debate on the constitutional review, in order to set the strategic objectives. Because the Constitution reflects political and social relations. The proposals put forward are therefore being assessed. For example, in a debate that says "you do not get rid of the chairs" proposing a maximum term of office of Members is an answer. At a time when the credibility of the political system lies in nadir, at a time when public and political dialogue is in Nadir and is being aggravated by the election struggle, which, of course, deserves to be initiated and given it over nearly three years ago, the economic crisis has legitimised the distrust of politicians and politics, which has been a representation crisis in the Memorandum years, we must respond by stimulating the participatory nature of democracy. The Prime Minister should have an organic relationship with Parliament, that is to say he should be a Member of Parliament. The introduction of simple proportionally deepens democracy, strengthens popular sovereignty. So is the institutions of direct democracy in local self-government, the activation of citizens with the possibility of a popular legislative initiative for the citizens with the right to vote. The SYRIZA proposal also emphasises changes in the protection of basic social goods, such as water, electricity and their distribution networks, which will be subject to public service status and which will be under public control, despite the enormous propaganda and the hypocrisy of the New Democracy in what it says. One of the most comprehensive elements of the SYRIZA proposal is to amend the provisions of Article 16 on the responsibility of Ministers. Why is transparency on the part of public life, fairness on an equal footing with everyone? Of course, we must say that this is not just an insulating of the sense of law, but also a essence of democracy, because there is also the question of economic democracy, there is also the question of economic justice. What do we don't need? We do not need the constitutionalisation of fiscal policy, and when in the recent past there have been decisions on labour and other rights that undermined democracy, such as wage cuts, Greek bond cuts, and there is, moreover, - you know very well - a European framework that is quite suffocating. They spoke from the Qualified Opposition for Balanced Budgets. Ladies and gentlemen, where have you been for so many years and how have we reached bankruptcy? You are talking today about balanced budgets. What have you been doing all these years? Here I think we must seriously discuss this: there is a need for a debate and a proposal that says that we should have the will to change and change those practices that led to budgetary bankruptcy. Extreme corruption and distorted development should be eliminated and their position finally take productive reconstruction and fair development. There was a lot of talk of private education in higher education. I think it is important and somewhat passes - you will allow me to say - in the duo that SYRIZA defends public education. The New Democracy calls it idealism and not only, the Communist Party of Greece calls it hypocrisy. We need to see what private education means, because it is being promoted and surrounded in the sense of development, etc., while in reality it is a hope for recovery by taking advantage of those who believe in it, the prevalence of extreme neoliberalism in the structures of education. I do not know if you have many times in mind the debts they have when they took loans to study, which they have not been able to repay. I do not know if you consider what actually means to private education. I doubt it. I want to say two things about Article 32 on the possibility of electing the President of the Republic by the people. I think we need to find a way to keep the House from falling apart. That's what I'll agree with. However, I must say clearly that I am quite sceptical about the direct election of the President of the Republic, with all that has been entered by the Prime Minister, by the people. Of course, when we talk about stability, I think that we should also give a content, in my opinion, of a complaint, a teacher's style. The lack of proposals is not a political exercise but a commentary. In my view, today we must have this in mind: there are a number of changes, in a number of countries, changes of leadership - and I do not mean in any case Venezuela, because it may go to the Civic Opposition in mind - there are therefore attempts to change leaderships, not always with the rules of parliamentaryism. And I have the impression that this ambiguity between progressive forces, if it is or is not so progressive, what we will finally achieve - and I say it in introductory terms - is'globalisation of the lobby' and that will be established everywhere. Finally, the tripartite "activation of citizens, restoration of credibility of politics, strengthening of the representative parliamentary culture", with a central focus on the continued democratisation of the civil society, conducive to the efforts to consolidate a social, humanitarian character in the Constitution. This is reflected by SYRIZA's effort, both domestically and internationally. It is an attempt at a social shift that fights the extreme right-wing and also opposes the attempt to remove social rights. I think we should give all our powers to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u503	Thank you. Mr Iliopoulou, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn for 12 minutes now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u504	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to begin with my speech today and because we are talking about the Constitution, and because I have often heard the words 'the constitutional arch and the Golden Dawn', I would like to consider all of you here as the two hundred and eighty-four anti-constitutional bows - and I shall then analyse my speech, because I say this - on the one hand and the Golden Dawn on the other. Gentlemen, then, of the anti-constitutional arch, you've been playing a theatre in the last few days and of course you have focused on Article 32 your conceptions. We have here seen the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff Responsibility crossing their swords for Article 32, for the President of the Republic. That was - supposedly - the level at which they had a difference. We are, therefore, clear - beyond these tacticalisms, beyond this mockery of the Greek people - that the President of the Republic should be elected by the Greek people, perfect and complete. Since you are so democrats, do not at last be afraid in this House of the Greek people's crisis. Mrs. Gennimata said this morning that with all that the Greek people see in the Chamber, the world strengthens the Golden Dawn. We want to tell Mrs. Gennimata and all of you that your fears, your nightmares for strengthening the People's Nationalist Movement will surely become nightmares whenever elections are held. In Article 4 - to go to the Revision of the Constitution - the Constitution speaks of equality. So, on the Golden Dawn that we accused, the Group of Parliament and the half of us have been in jail for eighteen months, what about parity, when our name is not mentioned anywhere in the file? What can we say that since September 2013, with a photographic provision - which is forbidden too - state funding has stopped? We were, of course, the first to say that the parties should not receive state funding. Of course, you only did it against the Golden Dawn. What are you going to say, the democrats who have deprived us of - without, of course - the Vice-President of the Parliament we were entitled to? What do you say, in particular, to SYRIZA, who are strengthening the counter-concentrations towards a legally elected party, such as the Golden Dawn, and indeed the country's third political power? We did not read any announcement from anyone, as our Chief said before, about the millennium attack on a Golden Dawn office. Of course, you are condemning - while we condemn violence wherever it comes - and you are selective in condemning violence. When he is attacked by a Golden Dawn office, when he is attacked, at risk of physical integrity, members and friends of the Golden Dawn, violence is not condemned by any member - I stress it - an anti-constitutional arch. No convict notices. We're still waiting for her. Or do you want to tell us that the Greek citizens, when they owe, even a euro, cannot make any transaction, and you parties, which end up in our homeland, are oppressing our country, over the last forty-five years, not just continuing to take loans, but by owe hundreds of millions, continue to receive state subsidies? The Greek people must wake up to see these. And the only ones who can tell and ruin this soup of the last forty-five years is Golden Dawn. And that is why you have excluded us from everywhere. And since we are talking about the Constitution and the independent authorities, there is the PSE, which does not see the blockade of the Golden Dawn from everywhere. Private channels aren't everyone's lobsters. Private channels have taken state frequencies and are obliged to play Golden Dawn accordingly, at least, with the election result. All they do is slander us. And we have even been excluded from the ERT, the state channel, which we and the at least five hundred thousand Greek citizens who support the Golden Dawn, those who say fascists and must correct their vote. They will not correct it, perhaps others who voted for you to correct it and vote Golden Dawn. The Chrysayites themselves are not going to fix it, don't worry. And so they pay ERT every month and wait to see those who vote what they have to say about what is very serious in our homeland. We're excluded from the state channel too. In Article 3, basically, we understand that it disturbs you the bond between State and Church. It bothers you left-wing left-wing, right-wing pockets, we have said these many times - because of ideology, you are communists and you do not hide it. And, of course, it bothers you neoliberals too, because even in the ideology that Mitsotakis wants to serve, through the New Democracy, neoliberalism serves the binding State and Church. Anyone who talks about the country, about Greece, who talks about religion, about Orthodoxy - say things by their name - whoever speaks about the family is considered for you is like a fascist. You are atheist, you left-wing ones here and you want to change an article that speaks of the Church. And I repeat - and Mr Mitsotakis, who is faithful and most of the New Democracy of course are loyal, but not to Christ and to Virgin Mary, to Mamonas, to his god of profit, that is where the gentlemen of the New Democracy believe. And all of you want to change, disconnect our faith from the state. "For Christ's sake, the faith of the saint and of the country's freedom, fought in 1821 to be free today. "For Christ's faith the Holy One" they put it first of all and gave their blood! Of course, and don't confuse you left-wingers, it wasn't class revolution, don't have such delusion, it was a national revolution for the liberation of our country. Stick it up sometime. SYRIZA says in his proposal and I read it self-evidently: "Nationalists believe that identity is defined by blood, soil and the dead." And we say, where's the bad? These dead gave their blood to be these soils freely. It is so simple - you consider it to be condemned in your proposal! You also falsify Isocrates by saying these things about discipline. You have not read the Isocrates, who only addressed Greeks. He considered Athens, his city, a higher spiritual level than others. He said that we have transmitted the education of the Athenians to the other Greeks. Those who were not Greeks Isocrat, to know, considered them barbarians and wanted to unite all Greeks into the idea of pan-Hellenicism to fight these barbarians. That's the reality as much as it hurts you. Of course you have found the solution. You want to replace the Greek population, the Greeks, by illegal immigrants, who are slowly gaining the right to vote in order to alter the election result. A multicultural hull which should replace the Greeks in the globalisation plans. We say that apart from motherhood, which is, in fact, protected by the Constitution, the Greek population should now be protected in some way. The Greek population is now falling at a rate which will soon be irreversible. There will not even be Greeks to serve your interests. You do not vote on the migrant Greeks but of course on illegal immigrants with great ease because, he says, it serves their smooth integration. You're going to drive us crazy with what you're writing. I guess you do. I too have begun to believe that what you are writing about the smooth integration of illegal immigrants must give them a vote for a start in the self-government elections! But you are afraid of the Greeks rather because you are not causing referendums, as some of you say, the ultra-democratics. We say that the referendums should exist on every national issue and we should address the Greek people, for example on the issue of Macedonia. You're afraid. They voted for the Skopje referendum on the name issue and the Prespecies Agreement, which was the sub-state, nothing and the sovereign state, the great state between these two agreements, was not addressed to the Greek people, because Tsipras knew that more than 80% of the Greeks would vote against the Prespecies Agreement. Private universities. What about both you and the left and the right? Some here want private universities, which are characterized by private but non-profit-making. I mean, they think a private person is going to have a university so he doesn't get a profit. Neoliberals play with our logic. On the other hand, of course, the others want public universities. And they do well. And we are in favour of public education, but not the one SYRIZA wants. Not for Ruvikon and every listener to run. We want purely glowing universities that will pass on education to the Greeks. From there on, because it will be the front of Greek education, if a foreigner wants to do so, he will be able to study with some tuition in Greek public universities, which will be forever free, gentlemen of the New Democracy. Forget what you know. The anti-constitutional arch, therefore, has dealt with Articles 62 and 86. The worst thing the Transmigration has ever created. Parliamentary immunity, Members' privileges and all that is covered. We talked about it before. But everyone can say he wants to be out of the House. We have also said so in the House, and we have also brought concrete proposals for legislation to abolish both Articles 62 and 86. Of course, you all refused because you want immunity too, you want the privileges, you want your ministers - and you in SYRIZA want that - to be blamed for nothing. Don't just say about carrying out parliamentary work because it was analysed before our Chief. Only the exercise of parliamentary work is not the offences for which you are accused of all these forty-five years. There's more. For the Greek Constitution, we are talking about such a serious case, which of course we will vote against as a whole because we do not have any confidence in you at all. We don't agree with what you say. You have proved yourself, partners on the left and right, who are forty-five years, where you anti-democratics have arrived all this time in our country. That is why we are calling on all Greeks to slowly understand that the only force that can legislate in favour of the Greeks and in favour of our country is Golden Dawn and that is why they will quickly make it government because time passes and it will be irreversible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u505	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour at this point to make some announcements. Parliamentary Representatives or Representatives of the Parliamentary Groups can, from 10 o'clock at night and then go to the Office of the Special Secretary of the Parliament to obtain the ballots and thus prepare them. The programming that exists at the moment is to be exhausted until some reasonable time - and I think we can do so - so that tomorrow we can only have the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u506	What time will it start tomorrow morning?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u507	In the morning at ten as we have said. There are a list of speakers. I'll start in the order of the ninth cycle. The ministers will be intervened. There are two Ministers and the Minister of Justice. Mr. Pallis has the floor now. Then Mr. Scandalidis and then Mr. Scandalidis. Before Mr. Scandalidis, I will give the floor to Mr. Fömello. Mr. Pallie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u508	Ladies and gentlemen, I am also of the opinion that constitutional revisions do not change beliefs, traditions and behaviours. However, changes in social perceptions, morals and practices and international developments can only affect the Constitution in the course of time. So these changes were diagnosed by SYRIZA and his Government through a major consultation process. These changes, I imagine, have diagnosed the other parties of opposition, major and minor, and we all agree that an update of the constitution is necessary. So we are at the first stage in defining the articles to be revised by the House elected in the next period. In this context, I shall argue briefly, since the speeches of the political leaders and the parliamentary representatives have covered the main issues. I will talk about two articles in the Constitution that we have proposed for review: the crucial right of islanders to equal administrative treatment and the political right to elect and vote, two'resistor' articles in connection with today's debate, but I appreciate that they deserve our attention. I'm starting at the first. According to Article 101(4), the joint legislator and the administration, when acting regulatoryly, are required to take into account the particular circumstances of the island and mountain areas by ensuring that they are developed. The island policy must be formulated in compliance with the principle of equality which dictates the management of different situations in a different way. This is precisely what is reflected in this article, which received a large majority and acceptance on its introduction about ten years ago. With the experience of applying this obligation of the state, we can now draw useful conclusions. By 2015, aid to islands meant for governments additional mobilisation in cases of financial aid and integration of funding programmes and reduced VAT rates. The government of SYRIZA took some more substantial steps, with the introduction of the transport equivalent, with the specific development programmes of the islands, with a fairer distribution of resources to local government on the basis of a criterion such as mountainity and islandity, with the significant strengthening of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy. Again, however, daily life on the Greek islands is still problematic. The islanders suffer from administrative deficits. Unfortunately, there are no administrative structures and procedures to meet their needs, just as the needs of their fellow citizens in mainland Greece are covered. The aim is to apply different and specific administrative models to enhance islandity. I will only mention, for example, the practices for the abolition and merger of services for the sake of rationalisation and the economy of the public administration, which cannot be applied in the same way to the islands. I am going to address the weaknesses of the territorial isolation of regional services, which require innovative functional interconnection solutions and the issues of survival for public administration officials in islands and mountainous areas. And here, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we are wronged by your President when he says that we are not dealing with the administration. Because we are dealing with the principle of administration. Public administration in the geographically disadvantaged regions must adapt to the particular needs of these regions. Unfortunately, that is not self-evident. In practice, the wording of paragraph 4 of Article 101 of the Constitution is not sufficient. A clear interpretation of the state's obligation to special administrative practices in the islands and mountain areas, such as the one proposed by the SYRIZA Members, I believe it will resolve this issue. The addition we propose states "and for the smooth and uninterrupted functioning of their administration" and I think it is a substantial addition to modern times. Now we are going to the political right of "election" and "election". Another proposal by the SYRIZA Members is the revision of Article 102(2), which includes the possibility of recognizing the right to vote in the self-government elections to foreigners who are permanently staying in our country. In the last days and a moment ago, in relation to a statement by Naoussa Iliopoulos, a candidate for Athens by SYRIZA, this reform was presented by the right-wing press as a dark SYRIZA plan to change the electoral map. Obviously, the Constitutional Review will take place in the next period, it is not the case for these elections, and therefore this argument is being rejected. But explain to me why people who now live in the northern suburbs who lived thirty or forty years ago in the urban areas of the centre of Athens, should go down with their jeeps and vote for those who stay permanently and keep the neighborhoods alive not to have the right to vote? Explain to me why in our islands, where in the villages the immigrants have kept schools open with their children, which have decreased population and there is a problem, why not have the right of those who contribute to the incomes of the municipalities, those who support the production of the region? I would remind you here - and we must say this - that in 2010 with the Ragonisi law, the right to vote was applied to the municipalities for immigrants and the 'elected' and 'elected', which, unfortunately, the Council of Ministers abolished in 2013, found it unconstitutional and, at the time, the CSCE, whose Bureau was obviously not of SYRIZA, had taken a public view that the vote of immigrants in local elections is a necessary step towards their integration and should be provided for in the forthcoming constitutional review. I would also remind you that this regulation applies to many countries in Europe, the Netherlands, Belgium, to all the Scandinavian countries, to Slovenia, Lithuania, Spain and Portugal, and to other countries such as Germany and France, it is part of the programme, not only of the Left, but also of social democracy. So we have no question of SYRIZA conspiracy, so that the result of the citizens' vote is allegedly altered. Instead, our vision, as shown by our own proposals for self-government, is in favour of direct voting through local referendums, for equality of vote by strengthening proportionality, and for the inclusion and democratic representation of all the social groups, so that they are active political in the affairs of their city. I believe that the two specific proposals for the Review, for which I have spoken, are only two examples of how any constitutional gaps that have emerged over the years can be covered by interventions consistent with the social liberal spirit of the Greek Constitution. Like all the proposals promoted by SYRIZA, they give the mark of an open state that respects the diversity of its members and invests in solutions that they join together. One final comment on Article 3. We are talking about urban democratisation of modern Greece in 2018. Mr. Voridis isn't here. I, as a pharmacist, am not afraid that the cross will come down from the label of my pharmacy, but unfortunately with your practice the label has a snake and you have lived the snakes you are feeding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u509	Ladies and gentlemen, the announcement I made before, for the representatives of the parties to go to the Special Secretary's office, also applies to the independents. I didn't stress it, and that's why I'm coming back to fill it out. Now Mr. Screkas has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u510	You're not announcing the next one to get in touch with, why has the list been changed seventy-two times? You say, Mr. Screkas speaks now and Mr. Skrekas prepares himself and Mr. Skrekas. We don't know how many we are anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u511	After Mr. Skreka, we'll see if Mr. Famelos will speak. Then there's Mr. Scandalides...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u512	What are we gonna do, drop the papers to see if he's gonna talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u513	The ministers speak as parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u514	Will the ministers keep talking? When will the MPs speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u515	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u516	Only the Minister of Justice has announced he will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u517	I've got the directory here. Mr. Famelos was to speak at 6 p.m. and Mr. Gavroglou at 5 p.m. They're here for endless hours, like all of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u518	It's us, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u519	But they speak as parliamentarians, they do not speak as ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u520	I'm talking about MPs, of course. Now I'm just saying that people here, because they're waiting so long, to talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u521	They speak as MPs. But can emblems be placed as MPs, whenever they want, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u522	Mr. Screkas will now speak and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u523	But, as parliamentarians, if they speak, they cannot choose when to speak. They're coming in. If they speak as Ministers...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u524	As ministers, they speak. Many ministers have spoken, Mrs. Canelley, since yesterday. They're not the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u525	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u526	Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u527	Thank you, Madam President. The debate on the revision of the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, I think it should be a celebration of democracy. It should be the epitome of responsible, honest, objective and cross-party dialogue. It should be an opportunity to analyse the provisions which, over the decades, ladies and gentlemen, do not correspond to the modern needs of Greek society and much more to the needs of the times that come. Provisions that hamper sustainable development and progress, which eliminate the opportunities for progress and social elevation of our weakest fellow citizens and condemn poverty and decency filled with our young people. I am referring to the most recent and obvious example, ladies and gentlemen, of Article 16. In accordance with this Constitution, which is proposed for Review, Article 16(5) specifically states that higher education is provided exclusively by institutions which are legal entities governed by public law and below, in Article 8, it is expressly and explicitly stated that the establishment of higher schools by private individuals is prohibited. The question is, ladies and gentlemen, what does this article and these provisions have to do with today's Greek society? The result is - and I think no one can object to this - that hundreds of thousands of Greeks, who have unfortunately not been able to go to a public Greek university institution, today they are studying private universities abroad to obtain a basic degree, then many of them for the acquisition of a postgraduate degree and many times for doctoral qualifications. In recent years, due to the crisis that has been plagued by Greece today, most of them have continued to live and are trying to find a job abroad and thus to establish a better life. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, their families have been financially bleeding, supporting these children who are studying abroad. Live money is leaking from winter Greece, poor Greece, private universities by a majority and by the usual richer countries. Greek well-trained scientists, who want to pursue a university career, are either convicted of pursuing footwork or they are escaped abroad to find their luck. And let us say, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that this doctrine that the Greek state follows today, other countries follow it, let it go to the wish! Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, who passionately continue to defend the ban on Greece today on the establishment of non-public private universities, Greece has the sad privilege of being the only country on the planet that is banned and the establishment of non-public or private universities. This is not the case either in neighbouring Albania, where today English-language private universities operate and go to Tirana Greek students to study, either in neighbouring Bulgaria or in Istanbul, in neighbouring Turkey, which has become an educational centre where hundreds of thousands of students from other countries go to Istanbul and when they leave there are ambassadors to the culture of neighbouring Turkey. They could come and study in Greece, in Greek non-profit-making, non-state private universities and when they completed their studies here, in Greece and return to their countries, they could be ambassadors of Greek culture, Greek authorities, values and virtues. You don't care about any of this. Although I have spoken with many colleagues from SYRIZA who have serious concerns and would like to find a common solution for the revision of Article 16 and to be able to finally establish and operate in Greece non-public private universities, it is unfortunately the tough, dogmatic, ideological, the party line from Maximos that cuts them off. So democratic, so progressive, ladies and gentlemen, it is the current leadership of SYRIZA and of course the leadership of Greece! He is not interested in a real solution to the country's problems. He is only interested in the political pursuit in every way, without any hesitation. It even uses this supreme political responsibility, the possibility of revising the Constitution to promote sustainable development, prosperity for the Greek people today and in the next few decades. Even this supreme opportunity uses it only to obtain political, tiny benefits. For example, in the report itself, in the communication published by SYRIZA on the Constitutional Review, it is mentioned - to see how pre-formative and hypocritical these are, which occur in Greece in the last two months by the SYRIZA Government - that they promote ratification of international treaties only after a referendum. That's what SYRIZA wants to go through to the new constitution, which he wants to review. It had the opportunity, just a few weeks ago, to harm the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, a retreat agreement, the Prespecies Agreement - for which almost the vast majority of the Greeks were against, for which the whole of the anti-population parties were on the contrary - this issue, the seriousness, the national, the highest, what will affect the next generations of Greeks, to put it in a referendum. Of course I didn't have to. He went and monographed himself, Mr. Kotzias and then Mr. Tsipras, with a hundred and fifty MPs, cooperating, borrowers, willing. He did not feel the need for Mr Tsipras to table this referendum agreement. Otherwise, he is interested in the greatest democratic intervention of the sovereign Greek people in the important decisions. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I come to the last, ladies and gentlemen, which proves how hypocritical this is, which the government is doing today. It says at some point that the SYRIZA proposal stipulates that basic social goods such as electricity and their distribution networks are subject to public service status and are public control. Listen to how fake that is, how hypocritical this is. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A few days ago the international tender for the sale of 40% of PPC’s lignite production to private individuals was completed. PPC's lignite plants, which produce lignite electricity, would be sold to a private company of 100% and not, as Mr. Tsipras falsely said here, that they will partially have a stake in the private sector, but otherwise they will have public control. If this competition was complete and we had a private shareholder, a private owner of these units, if this provision is passed in the new constitution, what would you do? Would you re-state the lignite plants you're selling? Today, there are private companies 100% producing electricity from natural gas, supplying electricity to the world and through competition electricity prices have fallen. They provide less electricity than the Greek consumer can find today from some other sources. What are you gonna do? You're going to state them? Everything's fake, pre-formative, hypocritical. You're making fun of the world. That is why we do not support this hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u528	Finish, Mr. Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u529	I shall conclude, Mr President. We invite you to see the important articles that need review, because they keep back, on the path of regression, on the road of the past Greece. Greece is not moving forward. The world is going forward and we are staying behind this, unfortunately, the Syrian left-wing idealism and dogmatism. Come and see the articles that need review. Come on, let us agree together and move forward for the good of the Greeks and the next generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u530	I'm going to give Mr. Famello the floor. Then Mr. Scandalidis, Mrs. Canelle, Mr. Gatis, will speak and we will see along the way. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u531	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is a top moment for the Greek Parliament and also for the Greek society, the debate on the Constitutional Review. We are talking today about the Revision of the Constitution after a decade that upset Greece, which changed everything in the political system of the country, but which has also affected the citizen's relationship with politics. Because we have to admit it, there is a serious question of credibility in the political and deep crisis that is also expressed in the political system. There is a possibility for the constitutional review to be the medicine for the political crisis that has emerged, but also a progressive force for our country, for our country. The memorial bankruptcy crisis was not just a budgetary crisis. It is closely linked to the functioning of our democracy, to the social and democratic rights of citizens. We must say this clearly: the citizen was underestimated during the Memorandum. The will of society has been underestimated. For this reason, proposals have been put forward in today's debate which I must say have been made during this Memorandum. And it seems clear what the different DNA in politics is in the end. One side of proposals illustrates the need to deepen democracy, to mobilise society and thus to create the economy, on the basis of parity and with respect for work, in deep areas of reform. But what does the other side propose? It proposes the deepening of neoliberalism, the reproduction of the old political system and the constitutionalisation of surpluses. How hypocritical, however, it is, on the one hand, to set up hypothetical dialogues with Mr Webber on the removal of surpluses and on the other hand, to come here and propose the constitutionalisation of surpluses. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not even have to disprove you. Disguise yourself and make our work easier indeed. But you also put one question: what do you propose? Someone Mr. Juncker and Mrs. Merkel disguise him next time? But what more provocative can a political force do than ask the Greek people, who suffered from the memoirs, to constitutionalise the memoirs? This is something that will really mark you forever. But what does the debate in this House reveal? On the one hand the devaluation of the constitutional rule and the democratic rule of the free consciousness of Members from Mr Mitsotakis, proposed by the Russian roulette system, must now vote on everything, without criteria and without values. Does the New Democracy ultimately pursue a policy without criteria and without values? Watch hypocrisy! On the two main issues proposed by the New Democracy, he did not put the responsibility of Ministers. What does that mean? It means that it is a key issue that the New Democracy fears and does not really want to change. But also from the Change Movement, I think there is hypocrisy when he asks that there be no proposal for an eighty-eight votes. So, ladies and gentlemen, do you not want this House to have strong political legitimacy to amend the article on the responsibility of Ministers? You don't even want this political message to be given by the Greek Parliament? Are you so sad about the 2015 outcome? You don't want to be captured anywhere in the country's political system? On the other hand, one question arises: why do you ask Greek citizens to vote for you when you say that only one MEP of the Change Movement will be placed? The other nineteen representing 95% of your voters are useless to the political system? In fact, you tell the voters that you do not want the power they have given you. You only want one. Be careful, however, if the Greek people don't give you any to the next House. But, ladies and gentlemen, bearing in mind the fundamental political importance of the constitutional review, I have to link the world's political affiliation to today's debate. The objectives of sustainable development, as formulated by the UN at the Special Session in September 2015, I believe that it is the main political text worldwide, for the next decade, by 2030. And the objectives of sustainable development are within our proposal for constitutional review, and that is what I believe is an essential progressive intersection that includes the issues of climate change and is also within the development strategy that we have adopted. The seventeen sustainable development objectives of Agenda 2030 include policy, social, production and the environmental component. Economy, society and the environment are within the proposal of the Constitutional Review. The principle of sustainable development is a universal objective and must be included in the Greek Constitution, because it is the measure, but also the safeguard clause for the environment, in conjunction with balanced development, to ensure social cohesion. But where are these in our proposals, why do we have to submit them to the Greek citizens? Article 21 links the following: Objective 1; zero poverty; Objective 2; zero hunger; Objective 3; good health and prosperity; Objective 10; less inequalities; Objective 6; clean water and sewerage; as well as Objective 7; cheap and clean energy. It ensures a decent standard of living on the part of the state. It ensures universal access to effective health benefits. It imposes the fight against poverty and hunger by ensuring a life of health and prosperity and reducing inequalities. And, of course, under Article 21(7), it establishes public control of basic social goods so as to ensure that all citizens have access to clean water, sewerage and cheap and clean energy. Article 22 is again linked to Objective 1 for zero poverty, Objective 3 for good health and prosperity, Objective 8 for decent work and economic development and Objective 10 for fewer inequalities. The constitutional safeguarding of equal pay for equal work, collective bargaining, the right to unilateral action by the social partners, but also the right to social security, are part of the sustainable development that the United Nations empowers as a key political text for 2030. Of course, the fight against poverty, but also the guarantee of health and decent work, are essential issues of sustainable policy. In Articles 44, 54, 62, 73, 86 and 102, we can also reveal the issues of participation of the citizens, the analogue electoral system, participation in decision-making and, of course, the limitation of parliamentary immunity, the strengthening of justice and the various institutions, mainly the limitation of parliamentary terminology, with the addition of a new paragraph that combats both familialism and professionalism in politics, but also the closed lobby of power, which both the New Democracy and the PASOK want to have in the political scene and the self-government. And, of course, the popular legislative initiative and the direct vote are linked to objective 16 of sustainable development. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, just one minute on the question of Article 24. The New Democracy's proposal for the revision of Article 24 demonstrates the true political will of the Officerial Response. It proposes not to include the word ‘refresh’ in refreshing and refreshing areas. The New Democracy, in other words, proposes new deforestation after its so-called constitutional change not to be resurrected. And it does not include the provision of replacement from an environmental balance. It is therefore clear that the New Democracy proposes that areas which will be devastated after the adoption of the Constitution do not continue to be declared resurrected. So he closes his eye to future arbitrary. Also, the declaration of reservoir lacks the notion of forest land. In other words, the New Democracy proposes that the important forest land for biodiversity and the development of the primary forestry sector that will be burned or destroyed should not be resurrected. Only forests introduce into its regulation, not forest land. Finally, with regard to the classification of forests - and I close, Mr President - I propose that this New Democracy should take place on the basis of the nature of the area in 1975. It is a structural and substantial change that overturns the characterisation of forest land in all areas of Greece and cancels the work of forest maps. New Democracy is trying from the back door to cancel the forest maps and the Land register, which PASOK itself and PASOK together for forty years were trying not to be in Greece, "kicking" on the back of the trespassers. And putting the 1975 date as a milestone, it closes the eye and the trespasses and evacuations that took place before 1975 and during the dictatorship. New Democracy chooses when the country for the first time has a development and environmental tool to cancel and suspend this effort by setting another reference time point. On the one hand, they kept the country retarded and tabled a proposal for a corresponding discussion on forest maps, so that there would be no fines for forest infringements during the forest map preparation period, which we did not accept...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u532	Minister, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u533	...and on the other hand, they are trying to cancel forest maps, but also the possibility for the country to have investments with merit, transparency, environmental balance. And so they are trying to cancel - the Chief of the New Democracy said today - and the settlement of the settlements that are coming to the House, which will solve problems for decades as well for the citizens, because it seems to bother them that this government is solving problems. However, this option would be a blow to development, particularly for the region and the primary sector, since we now also give the opportunity to ensure subsidies on the basis of forest maps and to abolish above all an important development planning tool. It is clear, therefore, that there is not even any possibility of a white vote for the New Democracy's proposal for Article 24, because it is trying to degrade the entire forest protection, the whole environmental balance and all the major environmental reforms that we have done, by closing the eye on tramples, evacuators and the black market in the forest public area of Greece. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u534	Mr Scandalides has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u535	Mr President, because it is fashionable lately, neologies and today we have experienced the case of the incident, you will allow me to begin with an incidental matter. I would like Mr Famelos to decide that we will not elect a Member and Mr Tsipras who believes that we have reached agreement with New Democracy to elect the next eighty-eight Members of Parliament, which is the real one. Anyway, when you talk about a line with this range, with this root, with this strength and this route, you have more respect... [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] ...because the rebetiko song always applies "From high to low and from much to a few". It is not only true for those, it applies to everyone, especially temporary and opportunistic. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide from you that I was very concerned about whether, after almost thirty years of continuous presence in the House, I should have taken the floor. All in this country now has become a gamble of political purposes, in a climate of complete relaxation, a climate of liquidation of political ethos, principles and values that should govern public life. And yet we are discussing the top issue of our times, the issue of modern democracy, how it is organised and operating in our country in the midst of a multiple crisis, a crisis of politics, a crisis of its institutions, a crisis of governance practices. You will allow me not to speak as a representative of a party or as a carrier of a progressive political line. I would like to speak in the capacity of the Constitution, the capacity of the national representative. My views are in line with the proposal of my group as a whole, but they also have some personal dimensions that do not, of course, bind my party. I have that right. I am allowed by my long presence in this Chamber. I am convinced that the political crisis in our country was prevalent in the economic crisis that the institutional crisis preceded the debt crisis and deficits, that the political system as a whole seemed incapable of exceeding and transforming the pathogens it created and that this was in line with the long-standing time of the crisis and the costs paid by the country and the people for it. And yet, almost all of us in this Chamber swore to each one in his way and his arguments that the end of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-1990s came, which some of us have been doing since the mid-90s that our democracy and its institutions need brave changes and constitutional reform to truly open up a new historical cycle. The constitutional review was - because it is evolving - a historic opportunity. They appeared through the proposals of the Government and the Civilian Representation, dozens of articles under review, proposals on all the material of the Constitution, others to make good on the public feeling, others to serve political feasibility, and some of the mature supplements, changes and positive provisions that could bring the whole House into line. My general view, however, is that these proposals have been followed by the policy of marginal change to show knowledge, to present a documented proposal, a proposal on every subject and individual improvements, but in no case a proposal has been scrupulously and transcendentally equivalent to the dynamics I said at the outset. For example, where did the debate run out for years? In Article 3 for the church, Article 16 for universities, Article 24 for the environment, Article 32 for the President of the Republic and Article 86 for the responsibility of the Ministers. Wasn't that the public debate all these years? Where did today's debate end in the House? In the first for the church, for the universities and for the environment, there is no consensus at all. We are talking only about the President of the Republic's election. In Article 86 we are responding to a popular feeling that really wants a more transparent, more correct functioning of the political system and its representatives. In essence, what will the next majority do with regard to the key issues on which the debate has evolved? I do not believe that these are the only basic issues and they are not the main basic issues and I will be explaining them. Ladies and gentlemen, the key issues have been left to be crucial, which have either been reproduced as problems and malfunctions of the civil society or as a result of rapid developments that have brought catalytic changes in social organisation in recent years around the world. These are issues which allow the investigative authority to be dissatisfied at all levels. These are issues that are unscathed in the relationship between the state and the state with the citizen. These are issues that overthrow the potential for growth and fair distribution of wealth. They are issues that undermine the participation of citizens in the life of democracy. I would like to make it briefly, because time does not allow me to mention three, four to four labels. No longer disputes that the 1986 Prime Minister's model is what the President-in-Office of the Parliament is doing, and we are talking about the election of the President of the Republic. I would like to ask: could there not be a debate so that there can be a better balance in terms of the possibility of national understanding in which the President of the Republic symbolically, at institutional level rather than at policy level, not of intervention, prefers himself and calls on the Council of Heads, for example, when discussing a large national issue to be resolved? I'm talking about an example. Secondly, the control of transparency for politicians. I fully agree with everything we say, how it is protected, how time extends, etc. But here I would also agree with the Secretary-General of the JRC, protecting politicians from arbitrary criminalisation of political life, and we have the way. But to refer the politician to the natural judge, it would be a shattered proposal. It is my personal view, which I have been supporting for many years now, of my experience in political life and how we dealt with these issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirdly, the issues of fundamental rights are not rhetorical. These are issues relating to third-generation rights, arising from the evolution of science, society, technology, politics, information. These are issues relating to free and uninterrupted access to information. These are issues relating to a number of pan-human, cultural and other goods, which have to be fortified. At the same time, the principle of the enlargement of the social state should be seen in all matters which guarantee not only the minimum level of living but also the minimum level of social security. Fourthly, the re-establishment of the role and functioning of the media. How much debate have we had here on linking interests, on linking economy and politics, on all these things? Can we not ensure something about the role of media, within a new constitution progressive, which you want to say, within a Constitution that can ensure better functioning of democracy? Where it hurts the people, sees and understands, that's where we're not interfering. We only intervene where it can't cause us any damage or we have to be good. Also, one issue that is huge is this mismatch, another development process. I'm talking about management and organization levels.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u536	Mr. Scandalidis, beg to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u537	I need two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u538	I gave you two minutes. We've reached nine minutes. How much longer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u539	If you want, I'm stopping. I'm fine with it. Wait a minute. Let me finish my thoughts. I have nothing more to say. It is the mismatch of the level of development, the level of administration, the level of economy, the level of parliament and the level of local representation, representative institutions. We've been living this anti-corruption all these years. Couldn't the Constitution provide for a match? Could it not increase the role of self-government in this context? We have made a very specific proposal. So I want to end up with some thoughts. My question is: could such changes be made without consensus? Can they be done with fast track procedures? Can they be on the eve of the elections? As many times as there has been a refusal to agree, the review has resulted in an insignificant and marginal process. I do not want to talk about the past. Is there a real discussion in a few weeks, after the Prime Minister and the Chief of Police have bailed out and determined the climate of the debate, canceling any conciliation procedure in advance? And we've reached the peak. The fact of confrontation and focusing on the whole process is how the election of the President of the Republic will become part of party relations. The beans before, the beans after. It is the well-known tactics and towards a society fragmented, indifferent, uncertain, insecure, to treat politics as a necessary evil and democracy as a stranger to the active involvement of the city. It's the legend of her undermining. It is the fertile soil to develop total perceptions and practices. If you believe, ladies and gentlemen, that today there is a debate that is crucial to the overall course of the country and democracy, you will open up the chapter 'new re-civilisation' at the beginning of your term, and today we would have an agreed constitution, new, with changes in the constitutional type, with minimal and adequate differences that the next Parliament will solve, with the same wisdom and seriousness and not in a civil-war climate. We did our duty. We have proposed from the outset that the revision process should begin as an urgent democratic and national necessity. We came back in the middle, after your refusal, to salvage at least the lassus. We have proposed a framework for a minimum agreement. We tried to give, even now, a contour of the real changes that the Gender Fofi clearly described this morning in an unfortunately empty Chamber. You didn't hear us. Unfortunately, once again, we are a voice of oxen in the wilderness. That's too bad!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u540	Mrs Lianna Kanelle, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u541	Thank you, Mr President. Because some people may see the Parliament's channel at this hour, and because here we are a couple of fifteen, all of them, who rushed out to watch the game, know that the guest left, the match was interrupted. So, obviously, the withdrawal and dentification of the procedure also became useless. And I get from the thirty seconds that I have, to say it, because it won't make any sense not to sarcasm here what it has become is sarcasm! You took the Constitution and you did it 'Casa de papel' and I mean it. In the same way, you yourself talking about December 2008, you come here today and make Prokopi Paulopoulos a dark object. This thing is incredible. It has become the dark object of lust! Valentine's Eve, you fight. I say this because it is an international celebration, with enormous scope, which the free market can only follow or enter the pockets of the Greeks a little more hearts than money. But, seriously, this is a debate about the Constitution? Is it an amendment to the Constitution? This amendment comes and the Prime Minister described it as arrogant here as daring. He said when the elections are going, how many MPs will meet parties in here. That was the conversation. And you're talking about exploiting popular sovereignty? I'm going to stand on one or two things just to show hypocrisy. The separation of the Church - State, which would benefit both the Church and the state, is done on terms of NGO absolutely. Parliament is being exploited through the Constitution by facilitating the production of more independent authorities. We're building other independent authorities. We're making it. It will be easier to do so at the Conference of Presidents. May I bring the correspondence of how much you respect Parliament? You are four years close to power, and here you have brought many - worse than the previous ones did in number, incredible, hundred and fifty, two hundred - amendments at the last minute, legislative acts, urgent procedures, meetings fantastic. Who are you? But you, who have just been elected and taken the first place and not the majority, survived thanks to two right-wings, one who you chose for the President of the Republic and made him with a hundred and fifty-one votes, despite the fact that Mr Panos Kammenos was not needed with the ANELs until a precedent. So you are a party completely hypocritical. Wow, you... separation is between hypocrites and phantoms. You're making a very nice new diaphragm. You think so? Do you want us to prove it in the hypocrisy of my actions as a revision? You will convince yourself that you are interested in the environment and you and everyone, by multiplying the bases, because as we know, tanks, planes, kerosenes, military missiles, mortars, powder, nuclears and everything else there is, protect the environment. You will promote the independence of the country and the possibility of getting out of the memorandum, and I am sure you will, for example, urge you to do something the JRC has told you. It's the official position of the JRC. You have not dared to put it in a voting procedure because you are afraid. Afraid, if necessary, of consciousness. It is not just the conscience of the six who, by a letter, are determined, are the consciousness of the rest of the Members. That's why you didn't put parties' proposals in it. A party formation like the JRC could not make proposals and be put to the vote of the other Members? Are you serious? And you just want fifty and fifty? In other words, to play the Olympiacos - Panathinaikos style review game, but with a foreign referee and a foreign referee is the troika or, if you like, the mutated troika. The Prime Minister opened up, hugged about a Constitution to tell us when the Reviews were made. If you press Google, you find out when the Revisions of the Constitution were made and you look very gobbled in the face of this process. There's no man who can't goog when these happened. But there are people who remember the "troika of the Constitution" that he was talking about direct democracy. You'll tell me it was Mr. Katrugalos, Mr. Kazakis and Mr. Varoufakis in the known photo. They were talking about direct democracy in the Constitution. Aren't you telling me? Was the republic of Visegrad immediate when the Visegrad countries closed the border? Has it been too liberalised politically and respectful for immigrants, for citizens, for Europe, for human rights to cross the trains with products, for people not to pass? Is Schengen very nice? It is twice that Schengen has been lifted: one in Genoa - you should have remembered it - so that missiles and so on can come and the other - and one in Mundial in Germany, so that the required number of whores from the Eastern countries can come. And you come here now and you're talking about doing, he says, popular referendums. What are you talking about? Who are you telling? If you wanted to show that you respect the basis instantly, you would have to put in discussion, not even vote, five hundred and thirteen unions of primary and secondary workers. They brought here for collective agreements a proposal for a law and you did not dare put it for discussion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I too am entitled to a two-three-minute derogation. Don't start haggling now. I can't take it. Wait and think about it. That's what you couldn't bring. A hundred amendments have been tabled, no law proposals have been passed by the Conference of Presidents or will you make referendums with a hundred thousand signatures? Where are you going to get them? The world will hear them say: "Every good, we will collect hundreds of thousands of signatures, it's easy now and with the internet and we're going to deposit a law." You're kidding us. You are fully mocking them, because there are other articles in the Constitution that restrict them that people do not understand, the same as what you have done. With the HICPIA, you've put restrictions on it. With the minimum wage fixed by the Minister and then you tell me that you are defending collective agreements. What's a collective agreement? In other words, the worker is going to negotiate the Minister's expressed decision and this is called a collective agreement with a bilateral perspective. Are you serious? Article 1 of 1973 says about referendums. Articles 2 and 3, what do they say? What does the government bring? When does an executive law need to be implemented? What are the restrictions? People will understand that you are making popular referendums to them when issues, for example, money that can be taken from the public, from Otto, from the legal entities governed by public law, in order to be given to poor people as a pension that is paradoxical or a reward for real, once and permanent fixed work you cannot do so. It can't be because they do it a hundred thousand civilians. Oh, no. He wants the government to bring it and he wants the executive law every time. This is true, as is a number of other similar things. So you came here to play with the game of the Constitution a hypocrisy paper to look like an innovation and a revolution that is so far away from the modern form. Why? What was the role of SYRIZA, and what is now consciously inconvenienced by you in the face of elections? You must memorize all urban governments until today at whatever level they have made decisive decisions. The same happened with Northern Macedonia, the recognitions and greetings on the flag. The same happened with the words 'the demonic good Trump'. You mummify the past, you literally do totem it, and after you do it totem it, you also put two hangings on it from various European positions of ambiguous content in their implementation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u542	Finish it, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u543	I shall conclude, Mr President. In this debate there was a monumental phrase. I know I am giving pain now, but you cannot give me time, because this was also said by a Stepping House as a human right. So I use it to give me some time to finish a phrase. Something has been said here that is shocking and you must keep it as the identity of the symbiotes for the future, revised politically and radically, that there is no longer a struggle of classes, but that there is social competition, so since there is social competition, workers will rely on a review to go along with their bosses to compete with who will have a greater extent of persuading to the world through the mass media, through the trolls, through the Internet. That is why it is more important for one to notice the substance of things using only one’s experience. You came here as left-wing and rebels and ended up a mummy of past years with a look at the career of your miserable future. This will be overturned with mathematical accuracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u544	Mr. Dimitrios Gatis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u545	Then, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u546	Then there's Mr. Katsaniotis and Mrs. Kefalidou. Here you go, Mr. Gaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u547	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot follow the previous speaker either in the style or in the voice, so I would ask our viewers to raise the intensity of television a little, so that they can hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u548	We're here, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u549	You're probably listening to us, I just can't even have Mrs. Canelle's style, because it's really a talent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u550	But if you had it, you'd be Canelle, my dear!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u551	Mrs. Canelle, where you've been from.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u552	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u553	I passed before you, but in peace...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u554	Mr. Gaki, don't make personal reports. Start your position, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u555	I didn't offend you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u556	Do you want me to ask for the floor on staff? I deserve him!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u557	If you think I offended you, take him away!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u558	I deserve him!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u559	If the president gives you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u560	Mr. Gaki...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u561	Can I tell you something? I will not ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u562	Yeah, but he's at the Step now a speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u563	I would have told you that you were supposed to be ‘sincere’ and ashamed! Beware and be ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u564	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u565	Good. Let's start, Mr. Gaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u566	And if you want to translate the "I'm refreshing" and "I'm ashamed", I can say it to you: Ignorantly, Argya! I'm telling you this out loud and out of a microphone!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u567	Good, Mrs. Canelle, good! Thank you very much, Mrs. Canelley. We've heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u568	And after all, can I tell you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u569	Please, I need to talk now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u570	No, look in the mirror first! Look in the mirror!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u571	All right, Mrs. Canelle, this alalum, the hybrid that insults your colleagues, I can't follow it. That's exactly what I told you. If you understood it, good. If you didn't understand, it's okay, let's go down. I don't have to convince you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u572	Mr. Gaki, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u573	I also want to make a comment. I heard me very big...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u574	Just so someone can figure you out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u575	Mr. Gaki, please, go on. Nothing is recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u576	Well done, Mrs. Canelle! Give the spirit!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u577	Keep going, Mr. Gaki. We've already reached two minutes of delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u578	I also heard my neighbor, Costa Scandalidis, very carefully. It was a very good speech worthwhile to notice and study it, to consider it. But I am going to start by saying that we are about temporary tenants of this power. You said we were temporary, and we need to take that into account. It looks like a fly in the milk all over your speech. Let me say this with the courage of our common origin. Ladies and gentlemen, as many times as one can say that the constitutional review is a top parliamentary procedure, it cannot actually reach the value of this process. It is a process that honors us and creates a strong sense of responsibility. I am very honoured that during this parliamentary term I have had the opportunity to participate in the constitutional revision process. Because today I believe that we are correcting, adapting or responding to social needs, social problems and solving political weaknesses in the system. The crucial question raised today throughout this debate on constitutional revision is whether this constitutional review leads to a substantial modernisation of institutions and to an improvement in their functioning. We have responded to this question by putting forward a proposal for the revision of Article 101(4) of the Constitution - and I am staying there, I will not speak because the rest have been heard - by strengthening the standard conditions for regulatory action and provision for the development of an integrated framework for full social and development care of the state against less favoured island regions and mountainous areas, by putting the concept of innovation in the service of genuinely addressing regional inequalities, by making it more effective for the executive to address the current challenges in the Greek region. We have therefore tabled a provision amending Article 101, briefly but comprehensively, to make a clearer constitutional provision more precise, so that we can give it regulatory content. We therefore add, within the provision of paragraph 4, that the joint legislator, like the administration, when acting in regulations, is obliged to take into account the particular conditions of the island and mountain regions, while ensuring their full social and economic development. And this content of our proposal is a complementary and strengthening process of our colleague's proposal from the Cyclades, Antonis Syrigos, for the revision of the same paragraph, which has been chosen by the committee and which can be an overall one for the intervention in Rule 101 and, of course, for the next review House in the direction of always the proper and uninterrupted functioning of the administration, as Mr Syrigos said, but also the economic and social development of the islands and mountain areas. This proposal, too, is to be voted on by the House with the wider majority, because we believe that the request for intervention to identify islands, but also to resolve the problems that this particular particular particularity creates, is a responsibility for the whole Parliament and is not only the responsibility of those who table the proposal. I think that a climate of consensus is necessary for this intervention both in substance and in the institutional depth of the concepts of 'insularity' and'shortness'. The new regulation therefore strengthens the effectiveness of the provision in Article 101(4), since it clearly improves the current wording, in line with the modern spatial, social and environmental challenges faced by the island and mountain regions of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the current challenges faced by regions with specific spatial, demographic and social characteristics, such as island and mountain regions, also require modern innovative solutions, require responses to the critical issues of our times, such as the ongoing dialogue that is taking place for effective European integration in both administration and economic policy, in order to minimise disparities, both between the regions of the European Union and at national level. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. Our aim is for the Constitutional Review to meet the specific needs of local government, in the less favoured territorial, demographic and economic areas of the country, to contribute this intervention to the development of an integrated regional national productive reconstruction plan by creating a new model of development and a social state that mobilises for its implementation first of all the citizens themselves, the Greek people themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, the revised provision which is realistic and at the same time dynamic, with the new wording becoming more substantial and more comprehensive on the substance of the will of the people for positive political synergies of regional cohesion and development. And through the consents created by the reality of the lives of the inhabitants of the islands and mountainous regions, I call on you to vote for it, and I particularly address the Members of the islands and mountain regions, and I call on them all to contribute together to the elimination of the particularities or - if you like - to reduce the disparities resulting from the particular territorial characteristics of these regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u579	Mr Katsaniotis has the floor, then Mrs Kefalidou from the Democratic Association, and then the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights will take the floor, Mr Kalogerou. Here, Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u580	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate and decision on the revised provisions of the Constitution is at the heart of democracy and is the dominant factor in the functioning of the country's institutions. From the provisions that this House will be inherited in the next to be reviewed, Greece's naturality will be judged to a large extent for the years to come and how this function will affect Greek society. This is a top parliamentary procedure which has to run on three axes. The first is the preservation and further institutional shielding of the idiosyncrasy of the Greek state, with respect for the historical, cultural and religious traditions of the Greeks. The second is to strengthen the efficiency of the State, through better legitimisation, efficient administration and faster administration of justice. The third is the deletion of commonly outdated provisions, but also the modification of those which make the country a sad example to avoid throughout the world. With reference to the first axis, i.e. safeguarding and strengthening national characteristics, I note that the government is attempting a suspicious change in Article 3 of the Constitution. The freedom to choose the religion that exists today is more important than the religious neutrality that you want to bring with Article 3. The coherent and legal reference to Article 3 is attempting to be altered in order to enable a Minister such as Mr Gavroglou, a good time, to alter the nature of the lesson of Religiouss, without jeopardising his decisions by cancellation by the Council of State or by enabling any government to erroneous the Orthodox feeling in the name of the religious neutrality of the State. It is obvious, however, that Greece is a country in which anti-religion is constitutionally protected in Article 13 and no discrimination can be tolerated. And I come to the second axis, namely modernization and addition of provisions, which will put an end to long-term outstandingities and strengthen the sense of law. Among the top in this category, I consider Article 24 on the environment, which requires a substantial review. To address the issue of forested areas, but which has changed for many decades and are exploited for agricultural and livestock purposes, is a very important reason for the revision of this article. Thousands of our fellow citizens - and even people in the country - have property that after World War II was used as agricultural land and we - the state that is - still pretends to be forests. Let us not hide behind our fingers, let us not trouble thousands of other rural families by invoking the unrealistic "single forest, always forest", based on the forest maps of 1945. Besides, the settlement of this issue will send a broader message to our society that the state is depriving itself of realism and a consequence of the rights of the citizen, who must be consistent with his obligations towards the state. Didn't the paradox of the former airport forest in Greek teach us? A piece of the old airport, thirty - seven acres, were found forestly. The master just applied the law. Let's give him the tools. The forest maps don't solve the problem. They're just imprinting it. However, the revision of Article 24 is not only intended to correct this great distortion. He must put the country in the 21st century. Ensure as a constitutional obligation of the State sustainable development and tackling climate change. To introduce the concept of an environmental and energy footprint. To protect effectively real forest land. And I come, ladies and gentlemen, on the third axis, namely the need to change or to repeal provisions which are anachronistic and which cause more harm than they did when they were introduced. Such a case is, in my view, Article 16, which continues to maintain Greece in that group of the least-favoured countries in the world where non-state universities are not allowed to be established. However, we also need to take note of something else. The future belongs to self-government and self-government education. I am not referring so much to the possibility of establishing private universities. I am concerned about the future of public higher education, an education that can remain in public, but it must escape the state's embrace and form modern education organisations independent of parties and governments. Through competition with non-State universities, public education will be upgraded. Instead, the Government is downgrading higher education with mergers, in practice higher schools and institutions. For example, for purely micro-party reasons and with an incomprehensible obsession the government, after attempting to merge the university with the higher technology institution in Patras and seeing that it does not come out, has now acceded to the proposal to salamify the higher technology establishment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. A piece of the Open University, the other part of the TEI at the University, in no way criterion, is undermining, however, the quality of the education of the University of Patras technology, the self-sufficiency of the operation of a great TEI and attempting a clear change of direction of the Open University, the only body in Greece today, serving distance learning. In other words, the government is baptising itself as a reform of public free education. The transformation of Greek society into a society of productive citizens with a crisis and a modern attitude is through a series of radical changes in public higher education and a new type of schools that will produce graduates and meet the needs of the modern labour market. Your obsession, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in the non-change of Article 16, is a tough class option for those who have to pay, because they will continue to send their children abroad to private universities incorporating the most modern educational technologies and the most appropriate curriculum. The ordinary Greek citizens, the children of the Greek region, will not be able to do so. They will be doomed to a degraded higher education, which will remain partisanally and legally controlled and of course not free of charge. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you do not wish and seek any consensus, never anywhere. Nor in the process of reviewing the constitution. You want conflicts to express slogans of false progress, but no arguments. You want to work on all the institutions to satisfy your ideas and the ears of a narrow party audience, to which you feel accountable, as you have been the best servants of the lenders by the insurgents of the memorial. You will neither escape the truth nor your responsibilities. And, of course, you will not escape even your internal rivers and controversies, constantly looking for fantastic enemies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u581	Ms. Hara Kefalidou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u582	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is the fundamental law on which the development of the whole of the country's legislation is based, as regards the rights and obligations of citizens, the organisation and the basic rules of operation of the state and institutions. Since the first moment of the debate on the Revision of the Constitution, the messages sent were not intended for anything good. The odor of idealism and popularity, both for the reform process itself and for the quality of democratic confrontation, was diffuse from the outset. In a Parliament where opportunism, work and phenomena are overflowing, we are called upon to discuss the proposals for a Constitutional Review of a delusional government. Contradictory? Sure. Surrealist? Possibly. By definition, this process presupposes and requires the coexistence of wider consensus, which is a leading moment in parliamentaryism which, unfortunately, is moving into an entrepreneurial environment inappropriate. In the last two days, we have been living a curious insistence on the government to "block" its review proposal after the elections as well as on the content of the revised articles, which, apart from legally incorrect articles, are also indicative of SYRIZA's political culture and others and of the lack of any respect for political opponents and the will of the citizens. The only objective of the completely conscious legal error is to transfer the debate on the Revision of the Constitution to the field of regularity and impressions, where the government certainly pervades but is exhausted. What, though, could one expect from a government that made its polarization, division and division? On the altar of "political struggles, which have not yet been judged", SYRIZA sacrifices the supreme parliamentary process of the Review. And because it is well known that for you the purpose justifies the means, the government did not hesitate to start it civilly, with the sparking of personalities and with mud in the fan. After processing in committee - in very suffocating times, it is true - in this politically charged climate, we are discussing the many provisions which have been opened and, as the government is supposedly seeking to find appropriate consensus. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the time is not appropriate for major visionary changes in our Constitution, because the necessary environment of wisdom and mildness has not been developed. The major changes, unfortunately, will await a next government, which hopefully will be able to secure a climate of dialogue, elementary solidarity and wider consensus, notions which for the present government are confidently undermined. I would like to refer to a number of articles at once and I shall begin with Article 86: Prosecuting against members of the government, a special court. There is a broad agreement on the extension of Parliament's amortisation deadline to prosecute two to four years, which is now more time than the time of each offense. It is therefore possible to say here that there is a common basis. The next House can therefore review Rule 86. However, the question arises as to how convincing a government can be, when it publicly calls for the abolition of Article 86 of the Constitution'substantially responsible' and at the same time moves to give immunity to the President of the ANELs, who is also cut for Article 86, but good - bad - bad too, and sends a letter to the committee, reminding them that during the period for which his own offence is being discussed he had the Minister's status and thus trying to hide behind this provision? Who are you kidding? Who do you think will take your proposals seriously when you themselves undermine them with your actions? Rule 62: Member's imprisonment. Our Parliamentary representative Mr Loverdos said so in the most appropriate way: the honour of the political world. Since the first day that I was elected a Member I have been maintaining a firm view that parliamentary immunity has now been one of these issues that are coming out of sight. I have been writing about this for too many years. In this House, then, several complaints are raised every year against MPs, who need judicial investigation, and I confess that I have never understood why I must be protected from parliamentary immunity for possible criminal offences before I elect a Member, why should I not be prosecuted, like every citizen, for my non-policy, why not judge this justice? However, my fellow Members in the Change Movement have made a brave decision and we propose reversal of the logic of Article 62. The MP, like any citizen, is subject to criminal law and only if he so requests, the procedure of the impunity in the Greek Parliament is initiated. The responsibility is therefore transferred to the Member himself and his choice is certainly judged by the citizen, so that each of us can take responsibility for his choices. It is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen, that we demand maturity and adulthood of our citizens, and at the same time we ourselves hide behind the backs of parliamentary immunity. Article 32, for the appointment of the President. A surprise from the New Democracy was enough to show how much this government undermines the reform itself, refusing to vote on the article she proposed and she made its content. A hundred and eighty-degree turn. Why? Because there is a political logic behind this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will allow me a little tolerance, Mr President. At the core of SYRIZA's proposal, which puts the possibility of the immediate election of the President of the Republic, the question of the modern form of civilisation, the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic, is hidden. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So on the substance, the government proposes an anti-democratic regression, it opens Pandora's box, laying the foundations of government instability, which are conditions for both populism and democracy. Article 44 on referendums. In addition to the possibility of referendums proposed by SYRIZA, we do not have much to say, a perimeter 'no'. Anyone who is not a fanatical fan of SYRIZA and who was in Greece in 2015, knows firsthand what fraud means in referendums and knows how an incomprehensible question, where the citizen is called upon to answer with "yes" or "no", gains value and usefulness that the government has put it into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u583	Complete your thoughts, please, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u584	Unfortunately, we did not hear, unfortunately, any talk about critical issues relating to justice, no talk of binding administrative deadlines, no talk about all the major issues that concern society, they keep our country, they send out the best we have, our youth. So the Constitution's Review is a very serious process to be used as a tool for political survival. The problem of the country is not constitutional. It's a deep political one, it's a deep developmental one. In the very least time we have until the European elections, we will see yesterday and tomorrow. And this tomorrow, believe me, we won't let you determine. Four years lost for the country is too much. The result of the next elections can be for the country - so at least we believe - the most important reform in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u585	Thank you to the MP Drama of the Democratic Association, Mr. Kefalidou. The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor, Mr Michael Kalogerou, for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u586	I will only need the Minister's time, as the ministers have spoken, who have spoken in Members' time, that is, seven minutes. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with interest to the positions. One of them referred to a political problem of the government and not a problem of constitutionality. Recasting this thought, I would like to say that the issue of constitutional revision is indeed a major political issue. It could not be different, of course, when the political system is called upon to reform, to redefined the terms of the democratic political game. Indeed, this proposal, which is being discussed today in plenary following the work of the revised committee, is a proposal from a left-wing parliamentary group. It is a proposal for a constitutional review with a progressive figure, which, in my opinion, meets conditions of consensus certainly with the progressive space and certainly with society. Many speakers have also raised the question of whether this is an appropriate political context, whether we have sobriety as a political system, in order to discuss the issues of constitutional revision. In my opinion, yes, this is an important historical juncture, as the Financial Adjustment Programme was completed in August 2018, after eight years of economic crisis that went through the social majority. After all that faced the political system, but above all society, institutional armour through constitutional reform, is more timely than ever. On the other hand, it is also important - in my view - for a political context. Despite any political conflict, I think that we can also reach consensus in a context of political conflict. It is quite constructive many times that conflict. This has also been demonstrated by the work and positions of Members in the committee on the one hand and, on the other hand, following the adoption of concrete measures by the Government. Of course, and following the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement, I think that the debate on the political scene has also made the political preconditions for a good time to hold this debate on constitutional reform. I would like to address this morning's question of the intervening debate on the question of direction and then the binding nature of the direction. I shall try not to prescribe because I think the constitutionalists in the Chamber are tired of the various constitutionalists, not only in the Chamber but mainly outside this Chamber, in the telepaths. I shall therefore try to make a more political approach, trying to support the opinion of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. First of all, I believe that there is a clear distinction in the direction and, of course, the content and I think that this has been made quite clear in today's debate. Is the need to revise specific provisions not entirely linked to the direction? Of course, yes. This is a sensible systematic argument, namely that the need itself sets the terms of the direction. There is, in my opinion, a final parliamentary argument that, given the fact that the hard core of this debate lies in the consensus, the House proposed must clearly express its proposal to the House and not just the House, but also the society and the electorate. In this respect, I believe that including the direction and the vote is not a parliamentary failure. It may be a good originality, which may set terms - I think - of a more qualitative debate, a more qualitative proposal clearly from the Parliament which proposes to the House that it will be able to revise. We are now reaching the question of bindingity. I think it is well known to everyone that different views have been expressed in the theory. I kept an opinion on the theory is that it is not binding. There is, however, an opposite theory, which supports bindingity, and this theory is combined with the two judicial decisions, in my view, by the decision of the ECHR, but also by the decision of the Supreme Special Court. Is this a good conversation? I think that over the years and with the parliamentary debate discussing the issues and the clarification of the direction and the wording in the list of directions and the debate that has taken place today in terms of bindingity in the direction is not a useless debate. It is a good debate, which will help, broaden this debate. So it is not in vain, nor in my opinion is it extreme parliamentary. The view that it is binding and the direction is based, in my view, on two fundamental arguments and one constitutional argument. The main argument is that if the House reviews in a completely opposite direction, unorthodox, inspiring political behaviours of surprise are certainly promoted. In other words, we have a constitutional game which, in my opinion, is a proof of the institutional gravity of the process. A second fundamental argument is that every legislative procedure has the minimum predictability and this predictability concerns this House itself and society itself. In other words, let us consider in a normal legislative process a bill to start with alpha and its vote to end up as an omega bill. That would be a huge paradox, and that is why I believe that this is a very serious argument as well. The third point is more constitutional. It concerns the determination of consensus, which should be stable in two consecutive procedures, which should be equivalent. In other words, the constitutional authority should not share this procedure in a disproportionate manner. The two decisions, which I referred to before, are as follows: First of all, the 11th of 2003 of the Supreme Special Court, where it expressly, clearly and unanimously considers that the Proposing Parliament may, under conditions, commit the Review House to the content of the final regulation of the provisions proposed for revision. I also invoked the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, judgment of 15 June 2006. Greece was convicted of an infringement of Article 3 of the First Additional Protocol to the ECHR due to the introduction of an absolute professional incompatibility. It's a well-known case. The court gave particular emphasis to the fact that the immediate, without transitional provisions, implementation of this review surprised both the Members concerned and the voters in the elections between the first and second parliaments. Of course, the issue here is, in my opinion, a very political one and, of course, this very political issue will ultimately be dealt with in the next Review House. In practice, we'll see. I think that this morning, the example given by Mr Paradoxopoulos in Article 86, was quite useful. He said, 'Let us think, if this proposal and its direction are not clear, and it is not binding, how can we go to another kind of intervention in Article 86?' It is, in my view, the articles themselves to review that demonstrate the extent to which a proposal is binding, even on the basis of common sense. What do I mean by that? Another example: in Article 3, the proposal relates to the religious neutrality of the state. Can we think of something backwards? Could the next government ever revise in another direction? Do what? Proclaim theocracy? Of course not. This list can continue with Article 5, with regard to changing the direction of guaranteeing absolute protection of life, honor, freedom without discrimination on grounds of sex, gender identity, sexual orientation. Can we think about it differently? Of course not. So do Articles 21 and 22, which I think lay serious conditions for constitutional revision in the area of social and individual rights. These are also the reorganisation of our political system with regard to the Prime Minister's parliamentary status, as far as voting blocks are concerned, with regard to referendums on simple analogues. These were my brief views on today's debate. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chief of Officerial Opposition spoke of a lost opportunity, he said this could be a lost opportunity. If we read the Proceedings of Revision Vultures, we will see that in the past speeches with the phrase "is a lost opportunity". So he said it's a lost opportunity for a progressive constitution. What, then, is the progressive constitution, the progressive review proposal, in line with the view of Officer Opposition? Article 16. Article 24. These are the forest maps that, in fact, are so annoying. The balanced budgets, the fiscal strand, where the spokesman of the New Democracy said that if he went through such a provision, there would be an automatic reduction of 1.5% in the interest rates of the Greek bond. Of course progressive means to call with wishing issues relating to individual and social rights. I therefore believe that this progressive constitution approach loses ideologically, but loses reason as well. Let me also comment on Article 86 and what the Chief of Staff Responsibility said about the proposal he has made, but where he was a member of the government majority. If he wants to tell this story about his own personal attitude, I think he exposes the parliamentary majority, which he was then a Member of Parliament, because he should somehow give an explanation because, despite being a majority Member, he could not prevail and gather other Members as well in order to put Article 86 at a later date. He also showed the Chief of Officerial Responsibility for 2008, only forgot to say that, with regard to Article 16 then, in the 2008 Constitutional Review, there was the introduction of two paragraphs. So there was clarity here as to the direction, because it did not leave two empty paragraphs in the specific article that was then voted by an eighty-five votes, because the hundred and fifty-one who then ratified these paragraphs did not see anything void, did not see two empty paragraphs. Many speakers and the Chief of Civilian Responsibility have also expressed themselves on justice issues. I would like, first of all, to say that in 2016, when this process began and started in the public debate, the distances that were observed, both from the New Democracy and from the Change Movement, were explicit. They were made by public statements in those days. The New Democracy made the statement that the government chose to escape from the then tough negotiation with an endless consultation on constitutional review, while the Change Movement spoke about a civil disorientation show from the major problems that society experiences. Under these conditions, the prior consultation found both legal associations and lawyers absent, the stakeholders throughout the period which took place until the start of the review process. In recent years, all judicial associations held general assemblies and resolutions. In the judgment of both judges and lawyers the issues of constitutional review have been raised and these are public, posted and made public by both legal associations and the plenary session of lawyers. As to how to choose the leadership of the highest justice, the highest judges, all judicial associations seem to agree that the process needs to be changed. However, no one agrees with anyone about the way in which we should lead to this change. The same has been done with the proposals of the parties, which are in agreement with the revision of this provision. Others speak of a elective body, others speak of choice from their own judges, others speak of a parliamentary procedure with a majority of fifty MPs. Because none of these proposals were entirely majority, and that is why it cannot be considered that there is a mature and clear proposal which defines in a new way the choice of judges. However, I would also like to make a comment on this. What has been heard today in relation to this issue, I believe that they are insulting both to the highest judges and to those of the highest judges who have had their head of justice in all these years, following this procedure, which has been followed for years and, indeed, has been completed in the course of the process of hearing the candidates in the pre-election procedure in the relevant committee. Equally offensive, in my opinion, is the debate on the question of the participation of judiciary officials in politics or in the political life of the place, when they want themselves to engage in politics, whether as candidates for parliamentarians or as heads of the independent authorities. The proposal put forward by a majority was a time-lag between retirement and the time in which they can - let me say - be activated. So what does it mean? If the judge leaves this House after three years, after he has been socially and professionally inactivated, what is it supposed to be? What is the presumption that this time distance creates? I believe that the judges, who have been in charge all these years in the independent authorities, but also their right to have their political identity, which, up until then, are leaving it aside, at a time when they are carrying out their duties, is a question of democracy and we cannot, I think, leave impressions to the detriment of judicial officials. On the issue of constitutional control, there are also two points: there is a view that supports the establishment of a constitutional court or the forming - let us say - of the supreme special court, giving it to - this is the proposal of the New Democracy, if I am not mistaken - of constitutional control and thus creating a form, a sui generis constitutional court. In this respect, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group is of the opinion that the diffuse constitutional control, which starts with the Peace Prize and ends with the Areopagite, provides legal certainty, but also security of democracy and shields constitutional control from any state or other arbitrary action. There is a revised article on military justice and it is indeed in a positive direction. The question of raising age limits in the retirement of judges was also discussed. I would remind you that when this debate was born, the Marios Ice with a majority decided not to increase. They do not agree, on the one hand, to increasing the pension limit and, on the other hand, to general conventions prior to the previous period. The other issues which, in my opinion, have been properly raised by the New Democracy regarding speeding up the administration of justice and other such issues cannot be raised in the context of the Constitutional Review, but concern the amendment of formal laws, so the debate with the judiciary associations, but also with the parties, can continue with regard to reforms that have to do with the way the courts organise and operate. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, with the following consideration: two worlds will prevail in the next elections. Progress with maintenance will clash, the social state will clash with neoliberalism, the area of rights with extreme right-wing populism will clash. In this conflict of these two worlds, our views on constitutional reform, what we are proposing, have or are at the heart of this conflict of the two worlds, and that is why I believe that this process, and also the proposal of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, are in the direction of prevalence of progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u587	Mr President, I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u588	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u589	To respond for a minute and a half, Mr President, to what the honourable Member has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u590	You know, you don't have the floor, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u591	Yeah, but I have the right to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u592	Nor do you have the right, but for the culture of the debate, I give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u593	For Article 64(2), look, Minister, you should have arranged things differently, since the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution was working time. As far as justice is concerned, you should have been there, because the debate with you would have been interesting as far as you are supervising this crucial, for the functioning of the state, sector. However, because you have referred to us and to the criticism we have made of the supposed social dialogue that you have developed for so many years, you have missed and have not followed exactly the quality of our criticism. That is why I asked for the floor for clarification. We had no objection - and we have no objection - to the dialogue with the competent bodies in the relevant areas, in this case in justice, and we are monitoring with respect the views of the Association of Prosecutors, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, the full Courts, what is involved in this matter by the Bar Associations. But have we told you, with me and other colleagues, that for so many years, with the revision in dialogue, a citizen has not told you about delays in the field of justice? Not for the administration of justice, but for the organization of justice that leads to delays. One issue is judicial review of the constitutionality of the laws. Why should we start from the Peace Court to get to the plenary and not take advantage of the example of the pilot trial in the Administrative Courts and when a constitutional complaint is made to deal immediately? Some two years ago justice, the party and the citizen win from it. We told you the same thing about the administration. Didn't you complain that when the legislator votes for a provision saying that within 60 days an administrative act must be issued, that an administrative act must be issued in two years and in administration and justice, that is our own deadline as an indicative one? That's what we told you. And you should have brought this here with proposals for revision. In this respect, our criticism, not the others you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u594	All right, thank you, Mr. Loverdo. We shall proceed with Mr Emmanuel Konsola, Member of the Dodecanese of the New Democracy, for three minutes. With respect for time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u595	I will try, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would expect the Minister of Justice, in all honesty, to give a consensus. Today, we are here in a top debate of the Parliamentary Republic. We agree, Minister, that this is a major process, as you said. It is true that the social and political actors as a whole characterise constitutional reform as Parliament's top political initiative. But, once again, you have managed, with your position, to show us that you are even working this process. And you have done so because you have become accustomed to working, as you have done in immigration, on the issue of the name of Skopje, but also on the policy of the country itself. I did not expect to hear that the Judicial Associations did not participate in the consultation when we know that they also participated in dozens of Bar Associations from all over the country. Apart from that, I would like to remind you that the New Democracy, Minister, has been involved in this process since the beginning. And it is unfair to stand against the Head of New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, when with arguments from the beginning of this dialogue he has put his view on the public sphere that fifty-nine articles of the Constitution must be discussed, in order to move forward with the Review. You have only stood in the top two examples that the President of the New Democracy set before the National Representation. You know, I see that this task being undertaken by the government is done in terms of benignness and in terms of party planning. After all, what did the left side of Parliament say today from this Step? That the Constitution is a hypocrisy game for the government. Ladies and gentlemen, the 1975 Constitution, despite the cases of updating and changing certain articles which have been reflected in the public speech, enabled the country to experience a long period of political and institutional stability. As I mentioned in the public debate, there were converging views on the change of specific articles, such as Article 86 and the abolition of amortisation deadlines for the criminal liability of the ministers. The Government has never sought, even at this point of convergence, to table proposals in order to reach an overall agreement between the National Representation and to have a consensus on this overall revision of the Constitution. You'll ask me how this could be done. I think Mr Mitsotakis, in his place this afternoon, tabled these two arguments. The first was - since there was the government's intention at the start of the dialogue - to have a framework of agreement on the articles, which should be reviewed, but also a substantial public debate. But when it turns out, ladies and gentlemen, that the aim of the government was to block this process of discussion of the Constitutional Review and essentially to lock the content of the articles under review in the next House, how can there be dialogue and, above all, how can there be a consensual procedure and a binding procedure required? Why did the government do that? The government did this because it knows that in the next House, of course, it will be a minority of the opposition. The second way that the government could establish a consensual dialogue procedure was to include the New Democracy proposal in the articles under review and in the elections that are being decided by the citizens. What do you mean? If citizens decide to support the New Democracy and give a vote of confidence to the New Democracy, then those articles proposed by the New Democracy would be those with which we would proceed with the constitutional revision. If he voted for SYRIZA, then society would expect SYRIZA to support, since it was a government, its own proposal. But that's not what the government accepted either. He did the same with the Embassy Agreement. The SYRIZA Government and various interested parties have now developed an extreme system of cynicism in the National Representation and political behaviour, in terms of public dialogue, and it is the one that knows better than everyone what good it does in the country - because we all do not want the good of the country - and the citizens, against them, most of them, not to blame everyone, whether they are mature or far-right. In fact, we have heard that from the Minister of Justice today. I never once again imagined that it would characterise New Democracy as populists and that those who disagree with it are far-right and fascists, because they disagree with the constitutional review. So because they disagree at their own angle, they are not given the floor, according to the government, according to their own logic. However, the way the government approached its position as a whole at the National Representation, on the issue of constitutional reform, has lost a great opportunity. Is that why you are bailing on Mr. Mitsotakis, Minister? Mr. Mitsotakis said this afternoon that an opportunity was lost for article 16, here last decade, when George Papandreou and PASOK left the National Representation and lost an opportunity. And you know, Mr. Loverdos, he's a well-established legal, parliamentary expert, and in the House he also expressed the opinion that that position was wrong. It was wrong to place PASOK to leave, so the opportunity was lost. And now that's what you do. Instead of learning from the mistakes of the past, from a party that has written history in the country, you continue obsessively and ideology about Article 16 and you do not accept the exhortation and example set out by Mr Mitsotakis. And, on the contrary, we have all experienced in the National Representation the Tsipra - Mitsotakis debate on Article 16. It is interesting that I submit a quote in the minutes of the House from Mr. Tsipras' honorary distinction when he was declared an honorary doctorate by a non-State university in Turkey. It is worthy of reference for the history of the future to see that it is a paradox. Mr. Tsipras insisting that he is against non-State universities for certain reasons, he is honored by a non-State university in Turkey. In fact, I also have a copy of the title given to remember Mr. Tsipras accepting this honourary distinction from the University of Turkey. And I'm telling him he did well. But let us see this practice. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If he is not convinced of this, I urge him, ladies and gentlemen, to see what is happening in Cyprus. In Cyprus there are five non-state universities - and three public. I would like to remind you that there is a single evaluation and evaluation body for the activities of universities in Cyprus. Let me remind you that the public universities in Cyprus have all been on the scale of the evaluation of international universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u596	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u597	I'm done. Will you tell me, Mr President, why did that happen? It is precisely because there was competition and noble speech in order for these universities to move forward. That's what we could do. And you know, it is also overlooked by the Prime Minister and the Government that 5% of Cyprus' Gross Domestic Product is from the money they deposit students from all over the world at non-state universities and has created 2.6% of total jobs in Cyprus from this very perspective. I should like to take note that forty-five thousand students are studying at the universities in Cyprus and 1 billion euros is invading state funds. With this encouragement, Mr President, I would like to ask the Government, even now, to see this prospect of setting up non-state universities in the country so as not to lose another decade. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u598	Thank you to Mr Consola, Member of the Dodecanese of the New Democracy. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: ‘Testing of qualifications and behaviour of candidates for driving licences and drivers, other provisions on driving licences and other provisions’. We invite Mr. Nikolao Toska, MP SYRIZA, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u599	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the debate on the constitutional review and I have tried to find the centres of weight that are crucial to civil rights, freedoms and the functioning of institutions which do not function in the vacuum, are not in neutral mood, but also the conditions which have defined the country's course over the last decade, as well as the risks that arise in the European and Greek environment. And the dangers are two: one is neoliberalism and the other is the rise of the extreme right. The SYRIZA proposal has two objectives: firstly, strengthening and deepening individual and social rights and, secondly, the effective functioning of the democratic culture. The first battlefield concerns the attempt of neoliberalism to completely remove from the field of political ideas the economy and democracy. Neoliberalism undermines the historic compromise of the welfare state with a totalitarian attack on social rights and universal social services. The second battlefield concerns the threat from the extreme right, which uses democracy to reduce or abolish it. At the level of democracy, we seek to strengthen popular sovereignty in both its dimensions: the representative dominance of a representative parliamentary system, particularly by guaranteeing simple proportional but also other constitutional interventions such as the creative vote of distrust. However, we are also promoting forms of direct democracy as a complement and not as an undermining of representative democracy as a decisive counterweight to the power of elites and to the tendency to remove citizens from politics. Our second response to neoliberalism is given by the shield of social rights. As far as the procedures are concerned, some people are trying to throw us ashes in our eyes claiming that we here need to be content with simply listing the revised provisions neutrally, as agency offices, so that the next Parliament can only take these substantive decisions. For example, as is well known, SYRIZA maintains in Article 32(4) and (5) that in the event of a failure of President of the Republic with a hundred and eighty votes of MPs, the people should elect directly the President of the Republic, while the New Democracy and the KINAL are opposed to recourse to the people and propose to the same articles to be excluded, since the simple majority of 50 Members will be enough to elect them. In these circumstances, therefore, all of us together will only write in our decision the number of the proposed provision 'Article 32' and the next House will come to decide whether the President will be elected in one way or another. "But that's the way it is" they tell us "when the next parliament will come from fresh elections". But will SYRIZA not come to the electorate to put the subject of the change in the constitution in question, among other things? And will the New Democracy not come and ask for these amendments not to be made because, in its opinion, they are harmful and therefore that SYRIZA should be voted against and that she should come down and reject them and do what is supposed to be right? So the argument of this House to commit the next is unfounded and pretextful. What the next House has to do is refuse to make the amendments in the direction decided by this House because it has changed its mind and started the process from the beginning of the constitutional revision. And of course we will all be judged, who historically defended what. So where did colleagues see the violation of the popular verdict? Nowhere, it's the answer. They're just trying to convince the naives. The invention of the New Democracy is also a more "Come to vote with more than a hundred eighty votes and you and us and the two counter-measure proposals and let the next House decide which one he chooses." The people in this case won't understand the differences? Excuse me, but this is a misunderstanding of the people. The new Republic and the KINAL are opposed, they say, to the last solution to the direct election of the President of the Republic, because this is why there is a duplication of powers stemming from the people. At the same time, however, they are, at the same time, suggesting that the single-faced powers of this institution should be strengthened by the convergence of parties' Heads of State and by the extradition of professions without asking the Government. Of course it is not ideal to appeal to the people's verdict, since we are not a presidential democracy of an American or French type. However, I admit that no better mechanism has been found for the time being to prevent direct elections from taking place around the face of the President of the Republic. Do we limit the opposition's urge to provoke general parliamentary elections because of the deliberate failure of consensus on the President of the Republic and so dilemmas such as 'Chairman with an eighty-eight' or 'Chairman of a populace' are being created? And if there's no second candidate but deliberately denying one and only, what happens? There are concerns that need to be discussed. I consider it an important step towards consolidating popular sovereignty to introduce the proposed media-democratic institutions not only at the central political level but also at the level of self-government. The representative system is in no way prejudiced by cutting the role of the media and reducing the customer role of Members. As far as the debates that have taken place all this time and the concerns during the memorials are concerned, we all know how the Memorandum 'parallel' which has bloomed over the days and has not disturbed some of those who want to overlook it. With regard to the position at the moment on the right and its relationship with neoliberalism, which is a key element in the whole functioning of our democracy, they believe - and they say so many times - that markets and trade must operate without hindrance and the granting of individual rights is considered the best way of protecting against the 'fraud' of common goods, of course along with the deep suspicion of democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. There are concerns about the independent authorities, which may have to be re-examined if some of them remove democratic guarantees. Finally, the Revision of the Constitution, I believe, is a top parliamentary procedure. The economic crisis left its remnants. The need to heal the wounds and restore the political system requires the strengthening and immunization of democracy. We hope that the SYRIZA proposal, which responds to the real needs and expectations of the citizens, will achieve consensus which will benefit democracy. Powerful democracies trust and do not fear the people's crisis. For us, for the Left, the social state and rights are the heart of our vision and programme. For us, these changes come as a confidence, but also as a necessity and so alone a Constitution can be implemented by a people. It is not enough for the Constitution to be implemented, but modern reality must also be expressed in the Constitution. With these considerations I am closing down and I am in favour of the majority vote on the Constitutional Review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u600	Thank you Mr Nikolao Toska, MP SYRIZA of Athens. Mr. Ioannis Andrianos, MP Argolid of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u601	Thank you, Mr President. The Constitutional Review is one of the top parliamentary procedures. It is therefore an opportunity to incorporate into the foundations of our institutional system the lessons learned as a society in practice. It is an opportunity to strengthen democracy, make it more effective and fairer in its operation. Of course, we will all be judged and judged - and I reply to the previous colleague - and that is why we must stand up to the circumstances. Of course, Mr Colleagues, because you have spoken of a misunderstanding of the people from New Democracy, I will tell you that you of the SYRIZA must not speak of a misunderstanding. Let's be a little more careful and more conspiracy. The lessons we can and should learn, especially from the time of the crisis, are many and important, since they relate to the efficiency of the state, to the stability of the economic environment, to social solidarity. We have to prove in fact that these lessons have indeed been learnt both to ensure that the country does not relive such an adventure in the future and to unequivocally cancel out the extremes and negatives of democracy, which in recent years on the basis of the consequences of the crisis they have proposed dangerous, allegedly alternatives to liberal democracy. This very aim, the substantial strengthening of the institutional patronage of liberal democracy, is the proposal tabled by the New Democracy, a proposal for a revision of 59 articles, based on the needs of modern times. As far as the political system is concerned, then, we propose a stable electoral cycle, substantial improvements in the functioning of the state, to address the abuse of the judicial prerogatives of political personnel to ensure economic stability. We are proposing the introduction of a financial rule for the refining of deficits and debts, a rational spatial planning and environmental planning. In the area of social solidarity we are proposing, among other things, the institutional guarantee of minimum guaranteed income, one of the most important and most effective reforms to tackle poverty. Of course, we are proposing the revision of Article 16 on the upgrading of public education, the strengthening of self-sufficiency, the institutional safeguarding of at least one model school for each level of education in every region of the country and, of course, the functioning of non-profit-making universities, an overtime reform with multiple benefits, as illustrated by the example of other countries and the last of Cyprus. Why this contradiction and hypocrisy? I must stress it. While many fellow Members of you have studied non-governmental universities abroad, why do you show that you are afraid of a necessary reform? Why would our children leave to study abroad? Why shouldn't established scientists, researchers, come to Greece teach? The country must therefore invest without fear in the extroversion and innovation of education, because that certainly favours the development and productive reconstruction of the country. With regard to Article 24, this proposal by the New Democracy, inter alia, aims to address the consequences of climate change, to define what is forest and to solve the problems that have arisen over the years since the use of aerial photographs in 1947 or even 1936, with the result that whole neighbourhoods, as you know, appear as forests and in many other cases to be suffering many families of farmers. We propose that aerial photographs should be used since June 1975 when today's Constitution came into force. Of course, the proposals of the government majority are in a completely different direction. They are proposals which fully reflect the working way in which the current government sees institutions, but also the urgency with which it is constantly dealing with issues of home and society. It is, for example, inappropriate for the government majority to highlight the need not to disrupt political continuity as a justification for the predicament of the proposal for nine votes to elect the President of the Republic when in 2015 he used the President's election as a tool to provoke national elections. It is inappropriate to propose successive referendums, especially in the light of the cynical situation, to say, dangerous and extremely harmful to the country, society and the economy, how the current government handled the 2015 referendum. It is inappropriate to propose that the ordinary electoral system be guaranteed constitutionally, while it is quite clear that the country needs strong governments for the necessary stability. It is inappropriate to focus on communication-type changes, supposedly to guarantee social rights, but whose only aim is to create impressions when they are not accompanied by measures to shield the national economy, that is to say, to ensure the essential material conditions for the effective integration of individual and social rights. It is dangerous and it runs counter to the will of the great majority of Greek citizens to change the constitutional predictions of the relationship between Church and State, even when the individual improvements can be made through simple legislation. So two are the objectives of the government majority. The first is summarized in the well-known and beloved motto of the Prime Minister of Maoikoic saying "great turmoil, wonderful situation". The vast majority of the changes proposed by the majority do not agree with the citizens and if it is implemented, it will deteriorate rather than improve the institutional environment. The second, as clearly admitted by government officials, is to prevent changes, reforms, which are necessary, but do not like the rulers for a decade. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, neither will you achieve the other objective. In the first step, therefore, the proposals we have put forward and, secondly, the forthcoming strong mandate of the Greeks, New Democracy will proceed to the profound positive constitutional reforms that the country needs and will require citizens, in the reforms that will substantially upgrade our democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u602	Thank you to Mr Ioannis Andrianos, MP Argolids of the New Democracy, and to the consistency of time. Mrs Fotini Arabatzi, Member of the New Democracy Serres, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u603	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been said many times that the Constitutional Review is a top parliamentary procedure and that anyone involved in it should be aware of the history, but also of the responsibility of the vote, of the historical and responsibility which anyone else has but the SYRIZA Minority Government, the government which, in this matter of changing the country's regulatory charter, has absolutely no suspension, no suspension of everything, in order to obtain party benefits. So, are you trying to work with the House as well, claiming the novel, anti-scientific, outrageous, that the decisions of this House were supposed to be binding on the contents of each review article next, effectively trampling the popular will in the Review, which is expressed how? But with the interim appeal to the people's verdict that is the election. This is a provocative and institutionally unprecedented process, which, beyond your undemocratic cynicism, also reveals your stress of preparation for your upcoming defeat. Because it is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that your rapporteur, Mr Katrugalos, describes the vehemence of the New Democracy which intends to vote even on the SYRIZA proposal in Rule 32, so that the President of the Republic can finally be removed from the dissolution of the House. Instead of greeting this attitude, he states that SYRIZA will proceed to actions that it would not normally take. It must be said that it is looking for ways to ensure that Article 32 does not gather in the second vote an eighty-eight Members. And after of course they pulled his ear out of Maximos, he's trying to get it back, but the plan on substance has been revealed. What plan? That SYRIZA, as the next government will be the Government of New Democracy, will do all it can to block the possibility of our own government reviewing Article 32 by fifty-one votes. Once again you play with the institutions, as with the institutions you also played in the 2014 presidential election, in the election of Stavros Dimas, provoking elections and plunging the devastating policies of your government into the country. But the people, ladies and gentlemen of the government, will give a clear victory to the New Democracy, effectively canceling your radio operations. And, of course, the short-sighted, outdated and obsessed way in which you deal with the Review is revealed a great deal in your attitude towards Article 16 to establish non-governmental universities under the supervision of a strong and reliable independent authority, as we propose, as a New Democracy. It is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, when our country is facing the phenomenon of Brain drain, not only at the level of the scientists, but also at the level of the students, that the government insists on the so-called arrogant and so-called popularly sensitive caps, that our young people should want to go abroad, forced many times to study, the hordes of our students go to Romania, Bulgaria, Slovakia, and you, the bounce. You are provokingly ignoring the benefits of the creation of non-governmental universities. The possibility for Greece, our country, with the undeniable spiritual, historical and philosophical authority that carries as a parchment to attract students from all over the world to non-state universities, to be a powerful regional even global centre with multiple economic and other benefits, is indifferent to you. Cyprus dared, Cyprus succeeded. We're sending our students a package there because of our ideas. Do you really know that your refusal to establish non-state universities is mainly affecting the middle and poor families for which you are allegedly being cut, those who make bloody sacrifices in order to study their children abroad? So their money abroad, jobs abroad and Greece, what remains? Prosecuting profits and unemployment, of course, sprinkled with a lot of so-called leftism, supposedly, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, because the rich can go wherever they want and whenever they want. And it is, of course, completely false and distorting your basic argument that supposedly non-State universities will degrade or undermine public opinion. The opposite will happen, because exactly the opposite happened in Cyprus too, since healthy competition and the speech that will emerge, improve and upgrade the public education provided by the state universities. Ladies and gentlemen, when he announced the process of constitutional revision, the Prime Minister had the courage to ask the New Democracy if he would consent to the revision of Article 86 and the abolition of the law on the responsibility of Ministers, making Mr Tsipras rather that he was Mr Mitsotakis the one who as a young Member had campaigned in the previous Review to abolish Rule 86, unfortunately finding few Members as allies. Opportunity to demonstrate supposedly leftlessness to your remaining followers and to Article 3 for the religious neutrality of the state, as you call it. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, it's finally coming with the hay. The dominant religion in Greece is the Christian Orthodox. However, the 1974 Constitution is so progressive that it refers to the freedom of religious conscience which is inviolable, adding that the enjoyment of individual and civil rights does not depend on anyone's religious beliefs. So we did not expect Mr. Tsipras and your Government to sell us progressively in 2019. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need your tolerance, Mr. President, for a minute and a half. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposals for revision made by the New Democracy with 59 articles provide for a stable electoral cycle, a drastic reduction in the privileges of civil servants, protection of investments, institutional shielding of climate change phenomena that primarily affect the country's agri-food world, and the relevant ministers are forging indifferently. With regard to Article 24 on forests and the safeguarding of property, I do not want to mention the fiasco with the forest maps. Mr. Famelos is not present. Our proposals also provide for a minimum guaranteed income, encouragement of dignity, excellence and evaluation throughout the public sector, not least of which you have an absolute allergy. Unfortunately, the government has refused the consensual character that the Review always has and supported little. I'm going to close up with a subject that I stirred up at first. Not only are you not fundamentally interested in the Review, but you are also trampling the will of the people. The argument that the decisions of this House are supposed to be binding also on the next House reveals in the most cynical way that you do not care what the people will vote on, you do not care how the next House will be formed. All you are interested in is determining, imposing your own view, your content, on the articles that will be revised by the next House. Extremely authoritarian and extremely dangerous viewpoint.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u604	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u605	And unfortunately for you, the position of the New Democracy that it is and the holding came to give justice last night, a former Minister of Justice, especially the former Minister of Justice. What did Mr. Kontonis say from the Step of the House? That there is the intermediate link between this and the next parliament that is the electorate. It's the people he judges. The people will judge and decide on the revision of the constitution. But you did how you didn't hear, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, because you're already a hundred forty-five. Whatever you do, however, in the elections that come from the people will despise you in the way that you now despise him and in all your governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u606	Thank you to Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, MP of the New Democracy. Parliamentary Second Athens, New Democracy, Mr.Theocharis, Theocharis, seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad, due to obligations, from 14-2-2019 to 17-2-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u607	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mrs Eleni Aylonitos, Member of SYRIZA, 2nd Athens, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u608	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Review is a top parliamentary process, as the Constitution is the fundamental charter for the organisation of our social, economic and political life, on which all claims and class conflicts are reflected. Therefore, it always has a fine. We want this to be democratic and politically progressive for us. The period during which this procedure takes place is historic, because our country, having emerged from the memoranda, is now in normality. Let us remember that in the first five years of the enforcement of the memoranda, our country had already lost 25% of its produced wealth, much more than it was losing when it came out of war. With unemployment in the heights and social structures shattered, democratic and social rights during the memoranda have been paid off. So the question arises: Did the Constitution not stand? How can he last after they shot it? It didn't work and they put it aside. We counted about thirty acts of legislation, namely emergency status, without the people having any choice at the time of the government to go around with the slogan 'if the memorials were not there, we should invent them', despite the wrong memoranda that expected growth and poured the recession into the tartars. "I'm sorry, we were wrong," the confession came much later, but what would you do with it? Did that compensate us? Some of our fellow citizens, however, did not succeed and unfortunately the Greek people paid for the marble of austerity. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember that famous European Constitution in 2005, which went to wear a cape to the French with garnish the constitutionalization of neoliberalism and which the French fortunately rejected, despite all the arguments, "vote it, because we will become the black sheep, because we will be beaten, because there is no plan B". That reminds me of something. So what was it that was to hear this famous proposal from the Officerial Revision Officer, the proposal for balanced budgets, namely the constitutionalisation of neoliberalism, namely the constitutionalisation of austerity? If the New Democracy proposal were adopted, we should apply austerity to the biennial, even in the period of crisis, because we will have the constitutional requirement of austerity written in our forehead. What can I do to you that the fourth memorandum didn't come out of you? Why would you otherwise apply your neoliberal program if you did not hide it behind a memorandum? Ladies and gentlemen, if we accept that democracy is a good system, why can it ensure the conditions for freedom of choice in a organised society as a whole, what possibility of controlling a society if individual rights of protection are not recognised by any discrimination, such as those of gender and sexual orientation? Here, therefore, the government, on its proposal in Article 5, strengthens these rights. If we accept that democracy is a good system, why can it restrict control over power, what means of control to have a society impoverished and bankrupt without the recognition of social rights, where they throw you the curse that 'you are to blame, why together we have eaten them'? The government proposal restores a decent standard of living for all people. This is not only about supporting financially weaker people on a financial basis, but also about strengthening decent living, providing universal social services and strengthening the social state in general. This is a great difference with the proposal of the New Democracy, which proposes the minimum guaranteed income, but with the sole support of providing a privileged benefit as a means of exempting the State from its obligation to provide social services, for example, health with which it ensures equal access and development for citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has brought twenty-seven proposals for the constitutional review of democracy and popular sovereignty, the strengthening of parliamentaryism, the protection of social rights and public goods. Two days now, everything has been analysed in detail. I won't repeat it. There are proposals which are mature, such as that the House is not dissolved with the non-election of the President of the Republic, Rule 32. The New Democracy supports this in principle, but disagrees with the way in which, in the third vote, the President of the Republic is elected by a hundred and fifty-one votes. Take note, in other words, that the state's highest institutional body is transformed into a party option without the election mediation. Furthermore, with a spoonful, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are voting at the same time on the proposal of the government which does not believe it and which leads to the final seventh vote to elect a president from the people, assuming that if you win the elections, you will impose what you want, contrary to what you have voted on and contrary to the direction and spirit of the Constitution. Finally, on the issue that differs from the views of the constitutionalists, if and whether the nominee parliament commits the decision-making or reviewing parliament, I mention the words of the Aristo-Manesis: "Revision of the Constitution is a manifestation and realisation of political will rather than a legal position. It is a basic matter of power and not of science, so it is the work of politicians rather than constitutionalists." With this in mind, the political justification of each article chosen by the Proposed House for Review leads to its improvement in the second and revised House. The timelessness and durability identified by our Constitution is reflected by the timelessness of both Vultures to participate in the review article, despite the mediation of the electoral process. Here, the responsibility of the political parties is reflected in this very important process. Unfortunately, the Opposition, in particular, has passed well below the bar, as it seeks not to be recorded in the vote on the revision of the direction of the revised articles, so that voters do not know the direction that the New Democracy wants to change in these articles. It's all in the mosquitoes. How can you explain that you want to constitutionalize neoliberalism? But don't worry, because it is the government that took the country out of the memorials, and it is the government that, in its vote, the Greek people will enable it to shape the Charter of our country, our Constitution with a democratic and progressive sign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u609	Thank you Mrs Eleni Aylonitos, MP of SYRIZA, 2nd Athens. Mr Dimitrios Emmanoulidis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u610	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is the foundation stone of the culture, as it lays down the basic rules for the functioning of democracy. Its provisions define the political and social framework within which relations between the State and the citizen are harmonized. On the basis of these assumptions, its stability and timeliness are necessary. Whilst it is necessary to maintain stability, bearing in mind that the conditions are changing in time, it is necessary to revise it, since during the Latin 'tempora mutantur et nots mutamur cum illis', times change and we change with them. Today's House as a Proposing House is responsible for submitting proposals on revised articles. The review process is particularly necessary, as the country, after its exit from the memoranda in August 2018 and the transition to a new historic phase, obliges us to devote ourselves to the major institutional areas and reforms aimed at strengthening parliamentaryism, deepening democracy, promoting equality and equality, protecting individual and social rights and the necessary institutional modernisation. The primary objective of the attempted constitutional review is to extend and deepen democracy. The elements which make up these two demands are cured by the introduction of a mere analogy which consistently and clearly reflects the will of the citizens. Counselling electoral systems which have so far been in place have reversed every sense of democracy. Settlement of the vote of the homosexuals is a starting-point for the State's minimum debt to the household. The abolition in substance of Article 86 of the Constitution on non-responsibility of Ministers, the restriction of parliamentary immunity and the restriction of the term of office of Members are some of the constitutional regulations that exacerbate democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, the country's Constitutional Charter must have as its concern the harmonisation of State and Church relations. State and Church are two sizes that the relationship between them must inspire a sense of twofold respect for the benefit of the people and the country. The amendment article 3 which defines the recognition of the religious neutrality of the state, while recognising the Eastern Orthodox Church as a dominant religion, supplemented by the interpretative declaration, demonstrates the pure intention of the state to settle its relationship with the Church. The proposed recast of Article 3, in conjunction with the opening of a substantial dialogue between the State and the Church, to render Caesar's Caesar's and the things of God's God imply, on the government's side, the sincere and aware of its historical responsibility, its intention to respect each other's mutual respect, which is based on the ecclesiastical depth of the division. Ladies and gentlemen, in the years of the Memorandum of Understanding, we have lived a criminal for society of constitutional counterfeiting. The proposed articles of the Review address the attack on social rights, reverse, for example, the depreciation of the right to work, the deregulation of the labour market, the weakening of the protection of common goods, the constitutional discourse to retreat critical areas of the social state, dictated by the requirements of unfellowshiped neoliberalism. In the individual field with the attempted revision proposals, the government is taking steps towards the real equality of citizens, regardless of sex, race, colour or sexual orientation. And I now come to the New Democracy's friendly reading of excellence, combined with Article 16. A permanent enclaves in all the positions of New Democracy colleagues who preceded it is the obsessive defence of the need to establish private universities. For the economy of the debate, I would like to go along with that. However, I would ask the New Democracy to answer the questions which are self-evidently raised. Are private universities dismissing the demand for profit? How can they act as non-profit organizations? The tuition fees, how can you call them sponsorships? What fields of science are suitable for the establishment of university schools? Do these schools which are set up and operated require great investment, such as medical schools, multi-technical schools, or do those operating with few logistical infrastructures in the logic of "many profits and incomes large"? To what extent will your opposition obsession finally reach, so that you can cancel even this emblematic emblematic of your excellence rhetoric? The excellence, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is served and emerged through public education institutions, away from marked social decks. Members of a government that respects its social role are to support the upgrading of public higher education institutions, to support real excellence, rather than the - in introductory - "aristocracy" of customers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would conclude by saying that it is not the leader who holds the authority. The leader becomes the one who synchronizes his inside watch with the watch of history, the one who assumes his historic responsibility to move on to political initiatives such as the proposed Revision of the Constitution, which aims to create a new reality, based on the principles of democracy, the defence of individual rights and the rectification of society in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u611	Thank you Mr Dimitris Emmanoulidis, MP Kavala of SYRIZA. Ms. Hara Kafantaris, Member of SYRIZA, 2nd Athens, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u612	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the revision of the Constitution is a top democratic process and I do not think anyone will question that. Reforming a constitution is not changing a law, it is not putting an article or putting an amendment to a law. It is the Charter of the Functioning of the democratic constitution. Expresses the changes to be made at a higher level, which are mature within society itself, and life has assimilated. In particular, when there is a lack of regulation to resolve issues, then we also proceed to a review process in the Constitution. For this reason, the procedure followed has been painful and for some time. There was a committee which worked out concrete changes to the constitution and regulations, with scientists, law-makers, chambers, social bodies and came up with concrete proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a new era. Our country has recently come out of eight years of memorial policies where specific policies have led our country to the memoranda we have experienced, but also policies that have been implemented in these eight memorandum years have had disastrous social consequences. I would say that the Constitution itself was the victim of this crisis and of the memorandumary policies. So, today, a democratic and radical review is needed to heal all the wounds of the memoranda. Democracy and the need to further deepen it is a reality that I think we all agree. It needs deepening institutions even more democracy. After all, democracy has been particularly hit in these memorandum years. Institutions such as referendums are being introduced. It is a very serious institution and an extremely democratic one. In addition, there is provision for further safeguarding social rights and I am referring to Articles 21 and 22 concerning overall social rights and welfare. Health is a citizen's right, not just a state's obligation. It is the citizen's right to live on a decent standard of living. The same applies, of course, to public goods. I am referring particularly to water. I think we know that people's access to clean drinking water and sanitation has been seen as a fundamental human right, and that is a UN resolution. The same applies, of course, to energy, too, to the networks, which by 51% have to be under public control. As regards water, I will supplement that there is already a case-law of the Council of State 1905/2014 on its publicity. But I return to what I have started to do with the needs of constitutional reform. Isn't it mature the Prime Minister of our country to be an elected MP? Have we not experienced governments of technocrats in the Memorandum with concrete results and policies for our people? Is it not mature what the world is discussing, which relates to Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers, and I think we imply what has been done and which has been made public and which has cost so many years before, of course, both to the Greek people and to the economy? Is it not mature, is it not necessary to have stable governments and to release the election of the President of the Republic from the elections? Is it not mature in modern times, has the need for mere analogy no longer mature? I would say so much, but unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the opposition and, indeed, the New Democracy, the Civic Opposition, see - I would say - the process of reviewing the Constitution with great destiny, not to say with political destiny. It's not the Revision of the Constitution, netting out and bazaars, like the little kids who play and exchange games between them. And I come to say this because this is something New Democracy does, with the revision of Article 16 on the publicity of education ahead of it. A great deal has been said about this. I won't focus. More generally, however, this procedure of settling, attempting to exchange and so on. Degrades the top process. I'd say she's charming her. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, I appreciate that you are inferior to the circumstances. You have already used a national theme for micro-communism and micro-policy throughout the past period. You tried to split, unfortunately, the country so that you wouldn't split your party. Now you are also trying to use this top democratic process, the Revision of the Constitution, to throw it into micropolitical and micro-participation. But it won't pass. This House and the next House, which is practically a review, which SYRIZA will be a government again, will complete the constitutional review. We will have a constitution that responds to developments, will respond to the new era, in line with the needs and, of course, with the will of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u613	Thank you Mrs. Hara Kafantaris, MP of SYRIZA in 2nd Athens. Mr George Stylos, Member of the New Democracy Parliamentary Arta, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u614	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Constitution is a very important tool of the legal order and the preservation of our institutional policy. This supreme Charter obviously cannot in itself solve the paths of the state, economic and social reality. The ever-changing reality goes beyond even the letter of the Constitution. We would therefore be blind if we did not acknowledge the problematic nature of certain provisions which have to be revised and improved. In this leading institutional process of the Revision of the Constitution, we must, of course, take account of the following: First, the Constitution of 1975 proved to be a successful constitution in its basic choice. This was based on the most stable and longest-lived democracy in our country. The innovation of the Constitution, the constitutional safeguarding of the environment, is characteristic. Secondly, the importance of the constitutional text is a fact that cannot be called into question, but, on the other hand, it is constantly falling under conditions of European integration. I would remind you of the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Union, which are now two main pillars of the protection of fundamental rights through European integration. Ladies and gentlemen, the President, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and our rapporteur, Mr Kostas Tasoulas, have referred to many important and important articles, such as, for example, the failure to dismantle Parliament due to the non-election of the President of the Republic, the articles on the responsibility of Ministers, the articles on the immunity of Members. I will, however, concentrate on three equally important issues, and I am referring to Article 16 on higher education, Article 24 on the environment and forestry and Article 3 on relations between the Church and the State. So, ladies and gentlemen, with the revision of Article 16, a great opportunity was lost in 2006 to take advantage of the constitutional reform and to move this House into a great reformist institutional section, which has been so much in need of our place today. It is not possible to repeat the same mistake. The development of the knowledge society and international competition require private universities to operate under the supervision of an independent high prestige authority. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is the only country in the world that maintains the state monopoly in higher education. I will give you some examples of areas where private universities will make a positive contribution. They will, firstly, contribute to the qualitative upgrading through the competition of the public university, the relief of the state budget, the arrest of money and new scientists from our abroad, the attraction of foreign students here in Greece, the strengthening of the interconnection of university institutions with the production and creation of a bridge between research institutes, universities and companies, the creation of human resources, in line with the new increased needs of research and the labour market. I want to inform you about the following: In a recent survey of 2018 it is reported that the absorption rate of scientists in Greece who do not meet the conditions is 61%, when the world average is 45%, i.e. 16 percentage points above. We don't have qualified scientific staff to be absorbed in Greece. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day So what will the private universities contribute: better education programmes, more targeted on the labour market. They'll also improve public universities. We will manage programs in English to attract foreign students to Greece. We will be able to work here at our site of many unemployed doctoral graduates with postgraduate studies. You, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, are giving us valuable income from our national economy. Ladies and gentlemen, on Article 24, on forests, we must at last recognise the problems and the suffocating deadlocks of its application in the exploitation of property which are badly regarded as forests. The Constitutional Review could aim to eliminate the same treatment of forests and forest land. The New Democracy has already tabled proposals for forest protection and measures to address the phenomenon of climate change. We have specific positions for sustainable development, for the management of water resources, for the enhancement of renewable energy sources, for compulsory reafforestation in private and public forests which have been destroyed or dispersed, for spatial and urban policy, which must respect and promote the concept of environmental balance. I would remind you of the characteristic example, which was set up on the initiative of the New Democracy, the Green Fund, whose resources are currently very little used for the environment. If SYRIZA does not coexist in the revision of this article, the result will be to block huge areas. You will have undermined economic activity primarily in the agricultural and livestock sectors. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with a point of substance. I am referring to Article 3 of the Constitution concerning relations between the Church and the State. I want to make a historical report. Even in the Constitutions of the Ionian Islands of 1803 and 1817, Orthodoxy is mentioned as a dominant religion. Conservation of these traits is therefore our precious collective memory. That's what today's article says... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, I'll be done, Mr. President. In any case, the religious freedom of every citizen is safeguarded by the current wording of Article 13(1) of the Constitution. And I want to report to you. Ladies and gentlemen, the nations that betray their ideals and values are scanned from history. A modern constitution can provide the necessary improvement in the quality of our democracy, to strengthen the efficiency of the state and to stimulate trust between citizens and institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u615	Thank you Mr. George Stylion, MP of the New Democracy. We are moving on with Mr Christos Boukoro, MP of the New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u616	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really wonder about the meaning of Members' positions at this time following the positions of the political leaders and while we all know that the votes with the articles to be revised have already been printed. What is the point of Members' placements following these procedures? And you know, few, about thirty MPs, 10% of the National Representation, over 25% of the registered, spoke after the positions of political leaders and while no change can be expected, no proposal can be adopted, no matter how useful and critical it is. We're just having a formal conversation. Typical are the shocks and consents against and in complete contrast with the spirit of the constitutional legislator and the letter of the Constitution. So let us say, Mr President, just a few things for the record, just for the Minutes. The main Prime Minister came today in this top debate, reminding the authors of police novels, who often strongly support their texts that the killer always returns to the crime scene. And the Prime Minister has come here today to propose as a top-down article, the decoupling of the election of the President of the Republic from government life. What Prime Minister, though? He, who, as head of the Officerial Representation, along with his later partner, Mr. Kammenos, cried in 2014 at the end of the year "even if you suggest, we will not vote for ourselves". These are recorded. And he proposed another leading change by the Prime Minister, the referendums, the adoption of referendums by the new constitution, the Prime Minister, who really got the idea of the referendum, changing what the Greek people had voted on. These as remarks on today, and I believe, Mr President, that they are essential, particularly for Members' positions following the speeches by the Heads and the printing of the lists we shall be voting on tomorrow. But, ladies and gentlemen, is the Constitution to blame for the multi-faceted crisis in the country? Neither the Constitution nor the laws are to blame. The bad legislation, the defection of principles and values that were stable in our political system and - if you like - the weakening of the institutions are responsible for the current crisis and brought the present results. No constitutional revision can take us out of the crisis. But if we do not take the opportunity to modernise the Constitution now, the exit from the crisis will become much more time-consuming and much more painful. We are heading towards the end of the debate on the constitutional review and it is clear that the political system of the country, with the sovereign responsibility of the majority, sacrifices a great opportunity to improve the lives of the Greeks and strengthen the position of the country in modern times. Topical issues, such as decoupling the President of the Republic's election from governmental life, strengthening the independence of justice with the election of the Presidents of the country's Supreme Courts by Parliament, limiting the judicial prerogatives of the political world, stable economic environment, protecting investment, financial rules that will protect us from similar crises in the future, rational environmental and spatial planning, social solidarity and equal opportunities, together with the upgrading of our education and the possibility of setting up non-state universities under public supervision are issues that can create dialogue and the necessary consensus on a real and non- virtual revision of the Constitution. In particular, for Article 16, ladies and gentlemen, I know from informal discussions with majority colleagues that not all of them are negative, as the government line is presenting on this issue. With what right will we deprive another decade of the new generation of Greeks, from the educational system, from society and from the economy, of what goes on in all the countries of the world? Let us demand that all Members from our parties serve the spirit of the constitutional legislature and the letter of the Constitution, according to which the constitutional review requires consent rather than party lines. Let's take the step, let's upgrade the existing political system. We all have a responsibility personally, not as members of parties or parliamentary committees, but as parliamentarians. There's a way, we all know him. Let us demand that we fulfil our role. We note, however, that SYRIZA does not want to capture just the government, the next government, which will be the one of the New Democracy, but also the next generations, enclaving all creative forces. It does not seem appropriate either for the slightest alternative, for the minimum consensus or for the one-handed articles that we could agree on. Kyriakos Mitsotakis proposed Article 16 and Article 24. And for Article 24 on the environment, Kyriakos Mitsotakis said very rightly to protect the real forest, to go to aerial photographs of 1975, to protect the forest without harming production by our farmers. If, therefore, we are aware of the full extent of our role as members of the National Representation even for the content of these few and controversial articles - but necessary for revision - we can agree. Straightness, maturity and consciousness of our responsibilities are required. All the rest are cheap fleeing, as are the party lines. Let us finally assume our responsibilities. No Constitution and no popular majority impose any entrenchedness, slavery, partyism and barren confrontations on such top issues. It is a popular demand for a new constitution, a modern, anthropocentric and developmental, a constitution that will strengthen Greece and the Greeks, a national rebirth constitution. Let us finally release the creative forces of the next generations. Let political captivity, party meditation and constitutional immorality stop. The Greeks ask for and deserve a new and modern constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u617	Thank you, Mr Christos Boukoro, MP of the New Democracy. Last speaker is Mr Konstantinos Giulekas, MP of the New Democracy of the First Thessaloniki. Here, Mr. Giuleka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u618	Ladies and gentlemen, it really is an honor and pleasure for me to close this top process, this top debate on the Revision of the Constitution. It is a real pleasure to have this honour and indeed to address colleagues who are just representative of this debate, colleagues from Macedonia, from Thessaly, from our continent, from the islands of Greece. On the other hand, however, it is also regrettable that, by listening to many SYRIZA colleagues - and indeed the Prime Minister himself above all - one can see that, at the end of the day, even this top-secret procedure was chosen by the rulings so that they could operate these strange balances - especially in recent times, we have been surprised by their choices and inventions - and on the other hand, once again, to show that. Even this Charter of the country, the Constitution, uses it for their micro-political, micro-political purposes. I was listening to colleagues - and indeed with great surprise - to say that it is historic responsibility that SYRIZA undertakes to bring a modern constitution to the country. Ladies and gentlemen, I say this because, apart from the divorces, we are confused here who belong to where - the country had a Constitution and before you, the country was operating before you. Your historical responsibility would really be a historic responsibility if you took it fully and said: Come into a consensual process, in this top democratic process, to find the common place. Come and find out, for the Greek people who all send us here, what we can do best and how we can modernise our Constitution. And let me say that the '75 Constitution' is the most modern constitution Greece has ever known. Despite his revisions, in his basic principles the Constitution remains a pioneering one. What the great Macedonian politician Constantine Karamanlis recommended and passed through this National Representation. It is a Constitution very timely and very modern, which of course needs many parts of the Review. But it does not stop being a Constitution modern for that and it lasted for so many years and is maintained in its main trunk. I hear you talking about historical responsibility. Allow me to say that I express my fear, ladies and gentlemen of the Com munity, when I hear you talk about historical responsibilities. A few weeks ago in this Chamber I heard the Prime Minister of Greece, Alexis Tsipras, again I heard many of you talking about historical responsibilities, when you brought, against the vast majority of the Greek people, against the vast majority of the political world, the famous Fishermen's Agreement, the Prespecies. You were talking about historical responsibility. The whole Greek people did not understand it. The political world, too. Even your partner came to the point of getting a divorce from you, because he was no longer able to keep the pretexts, there was nothing else. And then you took the historical responsibility. I remember attributes - and I turned to see in the Minutes of this House what you were saying - and another topical process in 2015, when you announced that referendum on 'yes' or 'no' and asked the Greek people to vote 'no' and who voted 'no' and trusted you with your 'no' you turned it into 'yes'. Your historical responsibility was then again. That is why I am saying, ladies and gentlemen, that I am sincerely sorry, but every time I hear you take over your historical responsibilities, I am buttoned with fear. I do not obviously claim that you do not want the good of the country. I claim that you have a perverse perception drowned in your ideas of what it means 'the good of this country'. Why not all the others - and yet the overwhelming majority of the Greek people - do not understand what is happening. And since you are taking over today in the Constitution review your historical responsibility, I ask this: why don't you come and meet somewhere? I was listening here to break your clothes that the New Democracy wants to clean up public education. You'll save her! The New Democracy wants to unravel it and wants to bring the private universities here. But we've said it. Mr. Mitsotakis said so. We all did. Of course, we want to upgrade public education. And at least all of us are proud that we're done with public universities, public schools. But that doesn't mean we're afraid of competition. This does not mean that we should let our children go abroad, that the Greek families are bleeding, that parents can study their children abroad, even in Balkan countries, and, in any case, that we should aspire to be the education centre in the region. Greece can at least invest in education, can invest in culture. But it is not forty-four years now 'thank you' to obsessed, because of this idealism, Greece stays behind. Here are the countries you are protecting, with your care and love, Venezuela, Cuba, all of which have allowed private education. You guys don't understand why you're so defending him for being stricken just in public education. Strengthen it, strengthen it, upgrade it, upgrade public education. Sure. We all want it. But let competition work too. Finally, why this obsession? And I close, confined only to something, to demonstrate how hypocritically you behave and that you do not use this top-level process, as I said, to seek consent, but again to pursue micro-party benefits. We are also in agreement with you and you, as far as Article 32 is concerned, leave 16 for public and private universities, leave the environment, leave other articles - let us go to Article 32 on the election of the President of the Republic. The House must not be dismantled unless we cannot elect a President of the Republic. This was in 2009. Done in 2015. We said not to go on like that. So you also insist that we should find a way to keep the House from falling apart. We come and suggest you, he proposed that Mr Mitsotakis vote together on these articles to which we agree. We have said that five articles you are proposing, because they are in agreement with us, we are all moving in the same direction, and we want to vote on them. Two articles that you have agreed, and that you too are moving in the right direction, you want to vote on them. So, come on, these seven articles are to be voted on by a reinforced majority of eighty-eight Members. And with regard to Rule 32, let us vote on it. And - oh of the miracle! - when you realised that this would possibly enable the New Democracy, as the next government of this place, to avoid the deliberate collapse of the Parliament and to return to elections in the next election of the President of the Republic, you have stumbled down. Then you realized that what you said led you to a trap and you began to say a number of strange things. Until - you have obviously envyd his glory up to your former partner - you said that you can also send some of your Members for a lawsuit outside the Chamber while the article is being passed, so that we do not go with more than eighty Members in the resolution of Rule 32. So the New Democracy as a next government cannot, by a simple majority of 50 Members, prevent Parliament from being dismantled into the election of the President of the Republic, in other words, electing a President of the Republic with a proposal of his own.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u619	Please complete, Mr. Giuleka.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u620	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that all of this demonstrates exactly the hypocritical attitude you are acting with and demonstrating precisely the fact that you are working on this country's Charter as well. I'm really sorry because this top process should unite us. Let me say this: I don't know how many we'll be, first God, old and how many we'll be here after the next election. But be sure not all the National Representatives have these opportunities. It was therefore a very important opportunity for us in this House to find a common place. You didn't want to. You dismissed it. We're sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u621	With Mr Güleka's place, the list of speakers has been completed today. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-13-S1-commons.u622	The sitting is closed for Thursday 14 February 2019 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: a continuation of the debate and a decision on the proposals for revision of the Constitution in accordance with Rule 110 of the Constitution and Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure.
