ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: ‘We hereby inform you that the Minister of Culture and Sport Mr Lina Mendoni, addressed by Nos 152/29-10-2019 and 157/29-10-2019, is impossible because of her involvement in a government mission abroad under Rule 131(2) of the Rules of Procedure. The topical questions to be debated are Nos 149/29-10-2019, 156/29-10-2019, 127/22-10-2019 and 128/22-10-2019 and Question No 487/4-9-2019 under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure and will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs Mr Sophia Zacharakis. Questions Nos 146/29-10-2019 and 160/29-10-2019 will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr Dimitrios Economou. So we begin with the discussion of the fourth question under number 146/29-10-2019 of the second-round question from the Member of Parliament of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Gotas Poulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The need to extend the time limit for submission of statements to the Viotia Land register", which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou. Mrs Pulou, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, with number 146/29-10-2019, I asked you the question of the need to extend the deadline for submission of statements to the Viotia Land register. Indeed, integration of the register is a national objective, but the collection rates of declarations of registered rights can only concern us. According to data from the Register and publications, at the end of September the rate of declaration collection in Boeotia was no more than 31.64%. Today, one month after and despite the expiry of the deadline, the collection rate of registered rights falls substantially short of completion. On the basis of the current and official data from the Voice and Fokida register, the registration rate of registered rights amounts to only 43%. In the process of early admission, a further percentage of 34% of the rights has received a protocol and remains registered until June. But, Minister, over 20% of rights have not been declared at all and that deadline has now passed. At this point I would like to stress that the early entry process, according to which one could obtain a protocol, even if his appointment was scheduled for the next few months, was not widely known, so that many of our fellow citizens have lost this benefit. Allow me here, however, to ask where is the open protocol and what dangers it poses, and, secondly, whether the late declaration gives rise to the conclusion and automatic imposition of fines. In Boeotia in particular, there were bureaucratic problems, Minister, such as problems of interconnecting the systems, and the operation of the Information Office in Livada has been interrupted for a considerable period of time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Because, in many cases, the Boeotians were unable to respond in time, including on the registration procedure, which was costly, because the extension would have unfavorable legal and economic consequences, but also those who have real estate in Boeotia will be forced to engage in court struggles, and fines will be imposed on them, please, Mr Minister, so that I do not abuse the first-hand speech - please tell us what you are thinking about the completion of possessions specifically in Boeotia, but also on the other counties, which are a group of counties in the country where one month has been extended so that I can conclude my thoughts as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, my question is the same question, so that it can be answered together.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u5	Is there any possibility, Madam President? Apparently I have to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u6	You want to sit down, too. The fifth question under number 160/229-10-2019 of the second question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "A great need for a definitive extension of the procedures for holding at least until the end of the year", has the same subject as the previous one, so they can be discussed together. Mr Minister, let my colleague be placed, and then you will answer both of you. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u7	Madam President, it is exactly the same content as my question because it is in the same group of counties as Boeotia and other counties in the country where an extension of about a month and a half was made on 16 September in order to complete the process. Unfortunately, it was not possible to complete the process, but in the last few days of October we saw huge tails formed and the telephone centres of companies unable to respond to increased demand, even for information. The calculations cannot be accurate in percentages, because no one knows all the agricultural parcels which should be declared. So we're talking about it. The feeling that has come from the pace of the last few days is that the citizens left to come to get a protocol number and say in the register is a very large number and a total of one million in the country. Because in the last few days companies have been forced to declare, but not in all prefectures. From what I have seen, to some, and I do not want to tell you that, because private companies are different contractors. This possibility was given - I believe - completely legitimate, because the date of deposit is considered as 31 October and has the opportunity in the next few days to submit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because a provision was passed in the law - and I conclude my position - a few months ago with an amendment giving the right to a six-month extension, with a Minister's decision, I would ask that we have the Minister's opinion on whether it is appropriate to use this existing provision and with a ministerial decision at least to extend until the end of the year, in order to complete the procedures in all the laws of the country. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u8	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Madam President. I think we agree with Mrs Pulou that completing the register is a project of national importance. I do not think anyone disagrees with that. The difficulties in the first phase of the register - because others follow - are well known. The statements have been delayed for years. Where are we today? To date, the practice followed has been to grant continuous extensions. In the case of Boeotia, in addition to the initial two-month or six-month period provided for foreign or internal residents, five months have been extended for domestic residents and two more for foreign residents. Similar extensions have also been given to Heraklion. I have the particulars we can see later. Several extensions have been given. The current government has decided not to continue the process of continuous extensions because it has led to a dead end. Statistical information, which is available, shows that every time an extension is given, the statements, which are reopened two or three days before the deadline, together with pressures for a new extension are stopped. So what we have done is to say that the possibility of extensions exists in two levels. There are extensions of three months that can be given by decision of the Board of Directors of the Land register, the body and from there on, it is possible to extend further - it is not a right - by decision of the Minister. So what we have said - and we do - is that, where the 'extension' has not been completed by means of decisions of the Board of Directors, these extensions will be given, if necessary, because it may have been completed somewhere. From there on, in cases where this has been completed and the Minister has been given the opportunity, it has been decided that another extension will be given, which will set a final deadline. This has been done so far. Where did this tactic lead? It has led to a result from now on. I'll tell you first of all about the whole country. At the end of July 2019, the rights declared represented 25% of the estimated rights. Preferences are prevalent, you're right, Mr. Kegeroglou. It's an estimate. It may be upwards, but it might be downwards. It's not certain. So, based on the estimates, we're moving forward, and that's how it's going around the world. So we had 25% of the estimated values at the end of July 2019, and today we have 40%. In other words, within about four months of July it increased from 25% to 40%. The main reason is that a clear message was given that no further extensions are to be made. It is also characteristic that in September we had the highest prolongation rate throughout the history of the Land register and probably in October we should have passed it. We are now waiting for the definitive information. So it seems that this practice generally works out. The consequences of the extension of the register are well known. I don't have to tell you. The development consequences of the register are not complete. The next phases of the Stock Exchange are delayed, which are also time - consuming and methodologically more difficult in some cases. The citizens who have already made statements cannot benefit from the fact that in time they have come and declared their assets, plus that this is a memorandum obligation, plus that the European Union is partly financing the register and therefore there may also be sanctions at that level if we finish, plus that there are specific contracts with contractors. Each extension automatically extends the time within which contractors must operate, with the risk of claiming compensation. I don't want to insist on that, but I guess it's obvious. So it's not that simple to give extensions. To go to these areas now, see where we are. In Viotia at the moment, the declarations have reached 43% and the early accession protocols have reached 25%, a total of 68%. These protocols are valid, you do not question them, there is no question of it or of imposing fines on those who have submitted such protocols. I am making this clear, and I am expressly saying it. There must be no question of that. So, with 68% essentially, we are above the 55% technical limit which is the limit based on both legislation and conventions is what closes an area and starts and moves to the second stage, which provides for the processing of declarations, the creation of maps, the suspension of maps, then objections and objections to maps and so on. It's another process that takes time. With 68%, then, as I said, in Boeotia we have been through a lot of 55%. It's a perfectly mature area to move on to the next stage. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] In the case of Heraklion today, the declarations are 45% and the delayed statements are 34%, that is, a total of 79%, compared with 55% that is the technical limit. So, in Heraklion, we're very advanced. There may be a mistake in the predisposition, but as I said, it may be upwards, maybe downwards, we don't know exactly. Based on this data, we are progressing throughout Greece. In any case, what does the extension mean? In both prefectures - if I remember correctly - the extension ended on 31 October. It means that the owners can continue to make statements - I do not mean for them by means of a declaration, those who have done nothing yet - for some time without any negative consequences and without fines. By the end of the year this will certainly be the case. Mr Kegeroglu, if I remember correctly, you asked that this possibility be available by the end of the year. Mrs. Pulu, I don't remember what she said. Is that what you said? Okay, I don't have to have a dialogue, I think, or is it allowed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u10	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Madam President. I said you could finish in semester.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u12	As I said, by the end of the year it will be possible, it will in fact be as if we have given an extension. From a certain point of view, fines will begin to be imposed. After the end of the year in both prefectures we appreciate - with some forecasts we have already made on models - that the percentage of declarations has reached a very high level. It's never 100%. There is always a percentage of real estate, which are not declared for various reasons. So we've gone far enough. It is not two counties that are in trouble. And with the two months that I told you, which we still have in front of us, things are easy. And for the fine as it will begin to be submitted, there is already a law which provides for this submission. We will now table an amendment which will allow the fine to begin to escalate. It will not be stable as under current law and quite high, but it will start to escalate from a very small fine symbolic, for example - do not take it as a given - EUR -5, and slowly as the delay will grow, it will escalate. In practice, therefore, there are a lot of insurance, so that the citizens do not suffer loss of their property or even financial burdens, which are serious and are in addition to those which have already been incurred by those who have already stated. That's all I wanted to say for now. I'll listen to your answers, and I'll answer for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. I will give Mrs Pulou the floor for three minutes and immediately thereafter to Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, we all agree that the country's realisation must be finished. One hundred and eighty three years! It's coming a long way from this case. It started from Otto, but without any results. The last attempt was made in 1998 and we are all aware of the development to date. Because, because of specialty, I and you have dealt with this issue, we know that this process is not easy and we also know how serious this process is for the completion of realisation, for the development of our country and for the protection of the environment and many other things. But you need a commitment. There is at the moment an open procedure that poses risks on the basis of management, once the deadline has expired, what Mr Kegeroglu has said and what he has said. You, of course, asked for it by the Minister. So what I am saying to you is that, for this silent turnout or legalisation, you must absolutely commit yourself as Minister - or your Ministry - firstly, that this procedure is legalised, because this open protocol concerns all of us and secondly, that there will be no fines. As for what you said that you are thinking about analogous fines, we think it is in the right direction, but there must be guarantees on your part to reassure the citizens, who - let me say this - had the last hope of giving them the social dividends and being able to meet the costs. It is also a help, Minister, that many citizens expect. So, then, find the way in which publicers can be assured that they will not be found in the courts the next day to claim their property and will not face too many and large fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, it is not just the responsibility of the citizens. First of all, within the time they had to say, all the public services were constantly involved in elections. In addition to the municipal, regional and European elections, we also had national elections, we had the summer and, of course, we had no systematic effort to inform citizens, because the register and the success of the integration of a large number, if any, is due to this. Citizens can alone with the points describing a property to calculate it, find the coordinates and declare it. That was neither five years ago nor well - well - three years ago and much more there was no ten and fifteen years ago, nor in 1821 obviously. So now the register is easier, but no systematic effort has been made to inform citizens. Alone and through friction procedures they have learned and used it properly. What was done in the various prefectures of the country was not the same frequency and rules. Another county was given through the company's website - and I mean not only the Greek Stock Exchange, but also the Contracting Company - the possibility of approaching and registering, or if you want to receive the attestation in another county only from the National Stock Register, and another one received a protocol number if they went in person. So not all the rules were in place throughout the country. I would fully respect what you said, if, in fact, the state had given a clear signal that it was the last deadline that had been given. Unfortunately, that's not the case. Since the Greek state has a follow-up, the May 2019 Act which talks about the possibility of six months of the Minister's extension, which has so far been exhausted by just one and a half months, what do you say to the citizens? That one-and-a-half months will be the last, since the law passed recently by Parliament - and not twenty-three years ago - gives the possibility of six-month extensions? What do you think? Are the citizens convinced that it'll only be a month and a half? Of course not. The message was that all six months the Minister can give them and will give them this law, with the vote of the parliament. If, therefore, we want to be consistent today as a state to the citizens, or we have to run out of this right, or say that in any case we are giving a single extension, for example - for example - until the end of the year and from there, not to say that the fines are too low. The fines may be the same, but we will give them the time to complete it and, of course, if there is a different escalation, which will make things easier, but we will still pass the message 'Don't go, it will be low the fine, 5 euros will be'. No, Minister. It's wrong what you're doing. You should give a clear deadline, a uniform way of making a statement. Not in the mosquitoes. Not by concession. Because now the citizen thinks they're doing it by concession. Who's to thank? The company? To thank the neighbor for telling him? The Minister? In any case, I would mention that by kindling out, to say that at last we have a rule to say that it is until then. The fines are strict and must be strict, but the margin must be given. If you now choose the way not to give room but to reduce the fines that will escalate, that is another logic that will lead to relaxation again. So, whatever it is to decide, make up your mind. But tell the citizens to know what's going on. But the message we gave was not that there will be no extension. We gave them the message that there will be a six-month extension from the Minister. And that is certified by the law that has been passed. If you'd like to, you'd have changed him. But you haven't changed him. We therefore ask, under the law, that you review your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. I'll start from the last one and get to the other issues. Look, the possibility of a six-month extension is possible. It is not the right of the owners or the duty of the Minister. It is a possibility, which does not mean that it will be exhausted every time to its limit. Otherwise, we would say that an automatic six-month extension is given. The possibility means that you take into account data and depending on it, six, one, two and a half, as many months as it takes. That's the first point. The second point: we, as I said, applied it quite clearly and without a derogation from this point of view - that any extension by the Minister during the current government was the last. In no case has there been a second extension. So the message is clear. What we have said that for a further period of time there will be tolerance and no sanctions will be imposed, that is within our Greek tradition, not to be extremely German-speaking. These limits, however, are specific. When I say that practical sanctions will not be imposed by the end of the year, that is already a specific limit beyond which there will be no possibility of escape. Citizens have got the message. They've believed what we're saying. And this is evidenced by the appalling acceleration of the statements in the last two months. Since we made this clear from 25% we have reached 40%. And that happened in less than four months. It's a very big increase. 25% of what we've achieved over the past few years has been achieved. There is no hint for previous governments. And the previous government tried and did a base job. But the fact is that, when things were cleared up for citizens, statements were very accelerated and now they are running at record pace. Every day since 1 September, the number of declarations is increased. That is why the citizens have made a decision. As regards what you said about information, you are right as a point. There was indeed no systematic information. In October there were three specific things. The first is that the government has repeatedly and in many ways stated that these are the rules of the game from now on with this two-month grey zone. I accept that. But that was a two-month period, too. Secondly, it started to run from 20 October, if I remember correctly, a systematic information campaign, which has clear results too. We see it in the statements. It's starting to reach the final recipients. Thirdly, there was, to those owners who had loose ends, an information note from the AIA, which played a double role. And he informed those who had forgotten, but he also convinced them that we mean that, because when IRS is involved, the other one starts and takes it seriously. I do not say that in a sense of threat or intimidation. For God's sake! I say, however, that these were actions which in total, cumulatively, led to people starting to take these results seriously. However, if there is one area in which we will have very low rates, we will see it again. But the predictions we make show that we are not going to have that anywhere. As far as the deadlines are concerned, with the possibility of the end of the time that I have told you, we are more than 55% everywhere. 55% is what the law provides for. If the land register is not closed in one area, within the meaning of that deadline, the next step may not be initiated by the contractors, which is the processing of declarations. So it was compulsory somewhere to close. The fact that for two months there will still be some statements, can be absorbed by the contractors' system, because the rest will begin to be processed. But if we don't close it, they can't start processing. So it's a complex project and we need to see all the parameters. We believe that the overall approach we take is balanced. There may always be some mistakes and we need to see it again. For now, however, things have shown that the matter is going on. I believe that with the help of all of Parliament's forces - because this is a national project and I hope that it does not have a special party colour - we will proceed very quickly, and in contact with many Members of this House from all sides I have this feeling, namely that it starts and passes on to the citizens the message that we must and can be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u19	We too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u20	May I ask for clarification, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u21	You know, Mr. Colleague, this procedure is not allowed. You know you're not allowed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u22	Just one clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u23	Mr Colleagues, this procedure is not allowed under the Rules of Procedure. You know that. You're an old parliamentarian, I think. Isn't that right? You can ask the Minister now that he's here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u24	However, it requires clarification for the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u25	You know that this procedure is not allowed. Mr. Comrade, why are you doing this now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u26	To you, then! Did we hear that by the end of the year they will be able to get protocol numbers and those who haven't gone so far? Did we hear that? This is the clarification. It's not for me. So by the end of the year, can they even go with tolerance, without an extension of the law to get a protocol number and declare? This is the clarification. And I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u27	Mr Colleague, I will repeat that you know the Rules of Procedure. Please don't make it difficult for me. Minister, if you would like to give this answer so that this will not be repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u28	We said that by the end of the year we have a gray period. At the moment we do not intend to take the measure of fines and other measures that are likely. At the moment there is no intention, because things are going very well. I can't fully commit. What I commit to, is that, as long as there is a gray zone period, there will be no retroactive fines. Also, as Mrs Pulou asked, and I forgot to answer, we fully guarantee the legitimacy of this procedure and the lack of any consequences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member, Mr Christoforos - Emmanuel Boutsikakis, seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad for personal reasons for the period from 18 to 22 November and for 9 December. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u30	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I would also like to inform you that the third, no. 152/29-10-2019, top-stage question of the first cycle of MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Explosive activity in Skouria and the recent decision of the Central Archaeological Council (CSC)", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. Also, the second question under number 157/29-10-2019 on the second question of the F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Problems at the premises of the National Sport Centre (ESC) Larissa", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister. The first question with number 487/4-9-2019 from the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs will now be discussed, on the subject: “To cover the educational gaps and to smoothly operate all schools in Heraklion”. The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the question, of course, was from the beginning of September and concerned the process of covering gaps, both in primary education and in secondary general education, special education, technical education, musical schools, in all types of schools. As we all know, you have moved into two phases to cover these educational gaps. Despite the process you have completed, there are still considerable gaps at national level, but of course in every county and, above all, in remote areas and in areas where there is a need to fill these gaps in order to complete the schools. I will refer to specific figures for Heraklion to tell you that after completion of the first and second phases, there are seventy more gaps in primary education. According to one of your own written answers, it is forty-three. In special treatment and parallel support are a hundred and fifty more gaps. According to your answer, it's a hundred twenty-six. In addition, I have to tell you that the ERCY, the legal body responsible for approving parallel support, is vivid and subtle, knowing this narrow framework that the government and the ministry give de facto. In secondary education the gaps are two hundred - one hundred thirty five according to your answer - and in its special secondary level the gaps are about fifty. The same situation prevails in Lassithi. And I must stress that the lack of staff, the lack of teachers, has deregulation of the behaviour of both parents and pupils. We had a episode - many episodes we had, but one was characteristic - in Ierapetra, where a student attacked his teacher, Mrs Pylinakis. I think the incident has become known at the Ministry. In conclusion, I would like to say that the gaps are very important. I estimate it's a total of four hundred seventy in Heraklion Prefecture. You admit three hundred forty-seven. In Crete it is about eight hundred, while you count about six hundred. When will they be covered? Do you have any direct plans to cover, because wherever holidays arrive and holidays and the staffing of schools is not completed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. Madam Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u33	Mr Colleagues, for a start I would like to begin by making a special reference to something that happened today. There was a confrontation, if you notice, of a school bus in Voula - Bulgarian. They were little kids. It's all right. We talked - for you to know - both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Transport and, of course, the Ministry of Education with the Director of the hospital, where the children have been transferred, as well as with the commander of the EAW. It's all right. Nine kids had gone, six little boys and three little girls. It has remained one, more for preventive reasons. He's got some foul wounds. It's all right, though. I repeat, because people are watching us, and he's nervous about it. Mr. Kegeroglu, no one's trying to stir up a situation. For starters, the answer to the issue of the date - it was indeed written your question - was that, with the continuous updates, the agency wanted to include the recent phases, which is why we are here today to respond. So you don't want to vomit a situation. We must, however, assess this situation. They are objects to assess the facts that I will put. It is a fact to assess that this year we had the fourth orientation and seven hours. It is an object of assessment that you are talking about places that are remote, inappropriate, and the previous political leadership had removed the double moleculosis towards substitute teachers, a clear and powerful incentive to attend these schools. It is also an undeniable fact that with the changes to two-year-old pre-school education - and I am talking about all of Greece - the needs we have in our kindergartens, as well as the needs for primary school have increased. Why am I saying all this, Mr. Kegeroglu? I'm telling you to capture a difficult situation that we had to manage in the first few months that we received the administration of this ministry and did everything we could, whatever was possible so that we had a smooth start. And we had this smooth start. It is not something that we are currently taking to the point that there are still gaps. There are shortcomings and we're recording them. Today, I expect a response from the regional directorates - there was a deadline for replying until noon today, because they have requested an extension - so that I can have up-to-date gaps and give you numbers. I can and can tell you that no later than Wednesday - and please note this, and Mr Delis has asked a corresponding question - we will be able to make the third phase of subsidization. When was the first phase of subsistence recruitment? It was made on 5 September, within our intended and, in any case, our intention to provide valid information to the alternates, with the data we have, with a deposit that we had to manage. That is where about twenty thousand people have been hired with the first phase of deputies, and with the second phase we have reached nearly thirty thousand people, covering general, professional, special treatment and needs in general. So, Mr. Kegeroglu, after a special and special debate that has taken place with Heraklion Prefecture, with our educational authorities there, with the training directors, with the regional managers, our concern is to cover the shortcomings that exist at the moment, but we will go a step further, because in your question you indicate what we intend to do for the next year. We are planning, so that all the service changes of permanent teachers, as well as the recruitment of alternates are made earlier, Mr Kegeroglou, and that we do not arrive September so that a man - I have said so many times in this House - has said so many times, and the Minister has said so - to learn in which region he will be working. He should be able to know it in good time - at least a month ago - so he can make his programming. And, of course, since the debate is also being held on permanent appointments, I would remind you that we are moving forward with the four and a half thousand training staff and special scientific staff for special training with a timetable and the end of this year following constant pressure and talks with the AACC. At the same time, because I hear a lot about the ten thousand appointments in general education, I ask a question - and I leave it, if you will, in reply - how can one speak of appointments when one euro has not been set? We are therefore aiming to make a calculation of the gaps, calculation of demographic, budgetary margins, actual illusion of gaps and, in a reasonable time, to be able to speak of appointments and of general education that are so, but so necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u34	Me too, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, when we have thousands of appointments to cover gaps with substitutes and matures, we really do not need much to process the data to see that the need for permanent appointments is too great. So programming should concern mainly the safeguarding of resources. We have now been working on the budget. You have nothing but to ask as the Ministry of Education - and I will ask them for the information - for the Ministry of Finance to include in the budget for 2020 the necessary resources for the recruitments that you consider should be carried out. If, for example, ten thousand permanent recruitments in primary and secondary education have to be made, for example, to request the corresponding amount. If the Ministry of Finance considers that it should not give the money to education, but give it to another use, for other purposes probably, or for dividends, or I do not know what else, it is a matter that the Ministry of Finance will clearly ask and apologize. In this case, however, the first step, yours, should be to ask the Ministry of Finance for the budget of the corresponding resources. And a few days later, I would like you to be in a position, with a request for a document, to give us the document you will ask the Ministry of Finance for the budget of the corresponding resources. I'll take as an example the four and a half thousand recruits in special lawsuits. You know very well that this had been announced and had typically started. The procedures, however, are so difficult that they last a considerable period of time. And now we're talking about hiring being done at the end of the year. With this in mind, I would ask you to do the procedure in good time and for permanent recruitment, the general ones, because the procedure is not so easy there too. I'm coming to this year's gaps. It's positive what you said, although it's already been, as we said, November. But I didn't understand what you meant, that on Wednesday you would be able to tell us the gaps or fill the gaps?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u36	To be phase three.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u37	To be phase three. If it is covered this week at all, we will have a development, because there are indeed too many gaps. I gave you the numbers. Our differences are not great. It's not a question of beauty. The gaps are too large. If only in Heraklion, Crete, it is about four hundred gaps, I imagine how much it is all over Greece. I shall submit two letters to the Minutes. One of them is Tymbaki High School, which is remote, but not inappropriate. You are right that the previous government made a mistake with the molecules. That's for granted. It has been admitted by colleagues. But you cannot invoke the mistake they made as an alibi. So Tymbaki High School and High School are not staffed, as shown in the document I'm about to submit. Also, at the Music School, ninety of the two hundred and sixty students, according to the document you have sent and received, are not taught the instrument of their choice, that is, the main reason why it is at the Music School. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to mention these, for example. You understand that you need to speed up. You should have already speeded up. You said you were ready, ready. He was wrong somewhere. Okay. But run, even now and, above all, ask the Treasury for the necessary resources. It is a priority for us, for the Change Movement, for covering gaps in education and, of course, for health and I believe for all parties. So you'll have our support on this. But don't tell me, after you had not done the document, nor did the Minister of Finance, as the previous Minister, Mr Tsakalotos, said, "But they didn't ask me." I would therefore draw your attention and ask you to do the document. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u38	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Madam Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Kegeroglu, you will allow me when it comes to planning a government project, to leave it to those who make the decisions. What does that mean? That I have set you the conditions so that there is a good preparation of the image and needs throughout Greece, but it cannot be one-dimensional. I set all four dimensions. So you'll allow me to plan the government's project and, of course, we'll let you know just as soon as it's done. That is what you said about the request and the documents. As far as the needs of the schools in Heraklion are concerned, I repeat that there may indeed be some derogations - you may have the gaps - before or after the supplementary phase. In fact, few have accepted, Mr Kegeroglu, and in the supplementary phase we took on 14 October, to take account of these difficulties that I told you before. And, of course, those who know the education know very well that gaps can be added because of permits, lotteries permits or other unpaid leave arising within the September-October zone in schools. So, Mr Kegeroglu, what you are letting us do - and I accept it very well - has already happened on the subject of haste. I would like to make this comparative study sometime: when was the gaps covered in the past? How many phases was the replacement cover? When was the placement of deputys? They were in a very mature place in the school year. And, indeed, let's see what is going to happen this year, because you will see initiatives to cover the material for children, where we should reasonably be concerned about how their material should be covered, of course, by a decision of the teachers' association, but also by the encouragement of the Ministry of Education. So, in the essential part and the coverage of human resources and material coverage, you will see initiatives that show both the interest and care of the Ministry and the care that already existed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u40	Me too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the High School of Stavroupolis Xanthi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed to the first with number 149/29-10-2019 in a timely question from the First Circuit of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Hussein Zambeck to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The resolution of the building problem of the Minority Gymnasium - Xanthi High School". Here, Mr. Zabeck, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna need some more time. I'm gonna need a minute extra, which I'm gonna get from my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Colleague, if you take the time from your dentistry, I have no problem with it. But if you use all this time for the question, there is a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Minority High School - Xanthi High School is a multipathic school in which all pathogens can be summarised in the Ministry of Education policy for Minority Education over time. The Minority High School - High School of Xanthi was founded in 1965. From 1968 until today, it is housed in the building of the Hatzistavros Street, the property of the former Prefecture of Xanthi. This building dates back to the 19th century and operated as a smokeman. Right now the school has seven hundred forty students. To meet his needs, school operates on two shifts. If we go back to the brief past, we will remember that the problems of the school are many, as until very recently its status was deme private, since it was a school with a private address in a public building with the Greek-language department being held under the responsibility of the Greek State, while Turkish-language was part of the private administration of the school, which made it difficult to run the school and any attempt to improve the buildings. We are talking about a regime that was not touched by any government from 1965 to the government of SYRIZA. Last year the problem was overcome by the decision of the SYRIZA Government to bring the school to the status of Jelal Bayar - the second minority school in Komotini - with elected school taxi. In 2016, with six hundred fifty registrations, about a hundred less than today, at the initiative of the previous government, the annex to the four school rooms was given and with which the two shift problem was solved for the past two years. Madam Secretary, now students are more. In fact, it was preceded by the multi-day occupation, which ended when the parents received the assurance from the Regional Director of East Macedonia - Thrace, Medium, that orders will be placed immediately after his meeting with you, Minister. Finally, in similar questions to colleagues, the Joint Ministrys of the Interior and Infrastructure have abstained from answering the substance. If you want, I can give you the answers for the Minutes. So I ask you, first of all, whether you intend to contribute to the annex as an immediate solution by showing and practicing your support for minority education and the rules of equality, so that the children of minority in the afternoon courses, which in our time are very difficult, may not even be able to do? Second, when do you intend to do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u44	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u45	Mr Papoutsis, for one thing you realise that I would not be able to answer the question of your question with regard to the District Commissioner. Mr. District Administrator answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u46	He had a meeting with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u47	Yes, but Mr. District Administrator's out. Right now, this part is not in the scope of its responsibilities. So I repeat that in the answer he has given, he says there could not be a commitment on the part of the region because he is also outside his competences. However, let's go on to the point. The question of setting up construction sites anyway falls within the competence of the school tax office, which is something you know well. What is the role of our Ministry in these matters? It is perfect for setting space specifications, i.e. species, number, size. For the Ministry of Education, you know that priority is first and foremost the security of each student. You realise that this is the priority. In this light, any possibility of dealing with any issue that is, in any event, related to a building problem of a school unit could be considered. The answers we have received from all the authorities in the service are unsuccessful with this school. The same applies to the company ‘SHIP CRITERIA’. There's no such request. It is also clear from the document, as I mentioned before, that the Executive Secretary of the Region is outside its competence. Furthermore, no request by the Ministry of Interior has been submitted by the competent body to finance the construction or expansion of school units, using the funds specifically allocated for this purpose. There is also a request from the school tax office of the Minority High School - Lymnasios to the Municipality of Xanthi for the award and installation of four precautionary rooms in the vast space. What's the answer? What was the answer from the Municipality of Xanthi? From the engineers of the technical service of the municipality, it was found that this site is not sufficient for the construction to be installed. The answer is here, and I can testify if you want. On the basis of the above data, the solution which is obviously not jeopardising the safety of pupils is, as we are, the continuation of the operation, as we are currently seeing, is not the only school in which this programme operates - and the safety of students, students, data and answers and the technical service's specific response - that there is not sufficient space for these units to enter, the containers. As I said before, we do not rule out further consideration of any issue that always arises on the basis of the student's smooth and secure study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u48	Me too, Mrs. Undersecretary. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, the District Chief spoke to you and then the parent's occupation ended. In other words, it was not a regional initiative, but it went in the way to solve the problem. We had contacted him and the mayor, with the secondary and the Regional Director, and a question had also been asked. As far as the space you mentioned was concerned, it wasn't Xanthi Municipality. It was the appendix we made as SYRIZA that was the part of the school that was also a manoeuvre. It was an ex-school that closed and we rebuilt it. There were four rooms and we solved the problem for two years. But, as we told you, we have seven hundred forty children in a building that had no school standard, it was a smokeman, and that's where kids are housed. The yard space, if you see, is not enough to prey the children. There are no workshops, no teachers' rooms. The building, I think, has closed its cycle. I invite you to see our own school. You say that the projects are a difficult one, but I think that a political decision is needed. You must show this political decision, as we have shown it. I am not political here because it is about the future of our children. It is the only Minority High School in the city of Xanthi and there are seven hundred forty children, and next year may be more. So we have to think immediately about a new building. I expect your commitment to a new building for a modern building where these children can be educated. I think every citizen who chooses the public or private school has the right to have a safe, healthy building, because there is another one: the building has been good so far, but how will it be from now on? We have to make our decisions. Of course, we are talking about children and I think that everything is about child safety and the right education of children. I am one of the people I believe that inequalities can be solved through education, and future education deserves a better future. As a government, we had taken these steps. I told you the history of the building, as well as the status of the building, which was difficult to make. But now these have been solved. The status of school allows the state to take some steps. Now the ball's on you. We're waiting for the political decision. I think you're going to do this because the precursors can be done, because in the year 2019 they can't get children to go in the morning and afternoon. You can imagine it's too hard for parents. There are care shops, sports activities and a large part of the children come from the villages, especially from the mountains that the conditions are very difficult in winter. We're talking about minus 10 degrees Celsius, so the lives of the children are at stake. That is why I think that decisions can be made, but it needs courage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u50	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Undersecretary has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, I agree with and I am one of the people who, too, believe that equal opportunities are being given mainly through the area of education. In any case, the greatest battles and the greatest claims are being made. There are some self-evident questions, given what I said to you that we would be prepared to discuss many things. Of course, we are already in November and given the decision and the crisis anyway that we have here from the technical service that the space is not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u52	That's enough space.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u53	It's not enough space. But let's do a parentheses, if you like. In an area where, as you say, there's no room for workshops, for teachers, for all of this...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u54	We're talking about the annex.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Colleague, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u56	I understand. That's what I'm saying. I see here a picture of a, for example, arbitrary canister and I realize that the space can have specific issues. I'm going to make another remark. I read a post two years ago that you celebrated to resolve the issue. In two years' time, do you think - and even from September to now - that such a difficult, unresolved situation has arisen so that you can immediately demand a solution to this? We're talking about realism, and we're talking about possible things. You have had many years to resolve a matter, it has been resolved from what I understand with the containers and you have celebrated yourself for this temporary solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u57	No, it wasn't a container, it was an annex.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u58	The Annex. What I am saying at the moment is to claim and consider as a responsible state all possible solutions. However, one solution which will be at stake at the moment and the safety of children, at least as the Ministry of Education and the co-authorities, would say that we need to think about it many times, so that we could consider it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u59	I invite you to come and see for yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u60	And now we are moving to the second under number 156/29-10-2019, the first time in the first cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The lack of teachers in schools". Mr Delis has the floor for two minutes to develop his question. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u61	Madam President, and Minister, each year literally the same and the same. Starting school years and schools do not have in their first few months of operation all the teachers they need to make their regular courses. In some, in fact, these educational gaps remain until the end of the school year. This is, of course, the only undisturbed regularity of education in recent years in the face of the chatter and propaganda of all governments again over recent years. The result of this is, of course, firstly, the thousands of hours lost in courses, for which, apart from the Communist Party of Greece in particular, there is little publicity, unlike publicity, in order not to say the noise that is caused - hypocritical noise - when racing mobilisations and occupations occur in schools, precisely to solve these problems with educational gaps. The second result of this situation is that, in order to cover these lost teaching hours, a very large and ever-increasing clientele is created for the schools, where popular families are literally taken away from each other, to cover the gaps in public school in a education otherwise public and free of charge. The cause, of course, is known. At least for a decade and under the responsibility of all governments no appointments have been made, except for some appointments - about four hundred and thirty - which have also been made by court decisions and, of course, thousands of loopholes. We've been talking about tens of thousands of gaps in recent years. It is not those gaps in previous decades that were a few hundred, one thousand to two thousand, the gaps reach thirty to thirty - five thousand too many times. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So all these people - and I shall end, Madam President - live their own hostage, of course. Now, on the basis of your own figures, if we add the thirty-three thousand alternate recruits last year together with the two thousand four hundred pensions, which were made this summer, then the number of this year's recruitment should be at least, on the basis of these two figures, thirty-three thousand trainers. If we do not take account of the uncovered gaps of last year, as well as the additional needs of teachers, because the application of two-year compulsory pre-school education has begun, and if even the non-functional reception classes for the applicants and the support and training structures of applicants are taken into account, then the number of recruitments cannot, Minister, be less than thirty-five thousand. So far there have been twenty-six thousand alternate recruitments. We expect to hear from you an exact number of these recruitments or a commitment that these gaps will be covered. And we are, of course, talking about recruitment of alternates, not about permanent appointments. So it will be necessary at the moment when we are talking about at least ten thousand recruitments to satisfy the operating conditions of the schools. Of course, it is our question that I told you a moment ago. What are you going to do, to cover immediately these educational gaps of ten thousand seats, and of course, what are you going to do to solve the great problem of anointing and permanentizing all these tens of thousands of alternates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mrs. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Delis, for starters, the first thing we're going to do is try to speak truths between us. And I mean truths, when we are dealing specifically with the part of the expectations and the expected results of an effort by the Ministry and a government as a whole towards children, which, if anything, are the active citizens who are taking the country further. What's the truth? The truth is that this year, with the effort that has been made, in the short, if you want, a time between the subsistence phases, we have covered a very large part of the needs. What you say about the ten thousand is arbitrary. I will be able to come with evidence next time, after I update it, to give you what the regional authorities have told us. Of course, as I said a moment ago, and in reply to Mr Kegeroglu, do we intend until Wednesday to make the next long term recruitment phase, which has arisen, Mr Delis? It came up because we searched and found the credit. In any case, the Greek Parliament, or at least the majority of it, voted on them. We will also use unpaid leave, which we received earlier this year, as they were granted this year and with the necessary reduction we can cover the recruitment of substitutes for primary, secondary, special, general, vocational education gaps. Numbers usually don't lie. And the truth is that the figures on our gaps show that although there were these factors, for which I do not want to tire you out, as we have had quite a discussion about the factors that have increased the need for Greece this year - they are the ones I mentioned also to Mr Kegeroglu, that is, the guidelines, the removal of double moleculosis, the increased needs in primary - but there are fewer needs in secondary, rather than primary ones. We are therefore prepared to cover them. We'll cover them earlier than they had been covered in the past, as I said before. What we are doing, Mr Delis, is preparing for next year - I repeat, because it is a very important commitment from the Ministry - in terms of substitutes and permanent teachers, so that we can budget the needs and actions respectively. With regard to appointments, I repeat that here you will see people who are telling truths. It really means preparation and thorough monitoring of all needs as they form in Greece. If you want me to answer you if the real needs are at thirty-three thousand or thirty-five thousand, I will ask you a big question and a party and I will tell you that I will answer you for the needs, when I know that the best use of human resources has been made of the Directorates of Education. I have also asked for it through the thorough control of myschool, so that I know that whoever is in his place covers his hours and probably the administrative work or whatever is assigned to him. So the answers are never simple, Mr. Delis. There is not just a 'yes' or a 'no', there is a 'yes' in the appointment, but after the real needs have been checked, the trends in demographic and at the same time budgetary possibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, this debate prevents another debate, the most important one that should take place within the House, but also outside it, in schools and in society, not around the basic terms of education, but about the content of education itself, about what is being taught and what children learn about. But to speak of the content of education, Minister, there must be this content in education. And as you know very well, without teachers, schools and courses do not actually exist. That is why we are now discussing this basic issue, which you also recognize is not without. We're not going to break it now in the numbers and whether it's ten thousand or eight thousand. At the moment, there are gaps, despite the fact that they became the first and second phases of subsidization. Whether this number is arbitrary, I don't know. I spoke with very specific elements and on the basis of simple and reasonable reasoning. Now, if it's ten thousand or nine thousand, I repeat it doesn't matter. It is true that you have shown a modest satisfaction over the conditions that began this year. You admitted, of course, - before I talked about gaps - that we do not know whether we can expect appointments before 2021. Because you have set a number of conditions, such as seeing budget and demographics. When do we get to see them? How long are we going to see these? Ten years we look at them, years pass and needs in education grow. You know, Minister, I have met alternates who have already been working for fifteen and twenty years. These people are tired of being with a suitcase in the hand and going to the most remote and expensive tourist islands with 600 euros, 700 euros and 800 euros. And that may also be a reason why they sometimes refuse their placement. We really do not understand that, and that is why we think that the Minister should rethink it so that these people are not punished. However, I would like to say to you - because you said about these two recruitment phases - that is, imagine that these two phases did not take place - a number of very typical stigmas of these gaps. Let me take you a little to Asprovalta, to northern Greece, outside Thessaloniki, where the III high school, even today, now that we speak, early November, have not done a single hour of mathematics and chemistry. Let's go out of Thessaloniki, at Kuffalia. There, in the PAPA of the Kuffalo, no 30% of their courses are taught. That's not a little bit. In Kilkis they are away from high school and high school twenty-five teachers, such as mathematicians, physicists, chemists, philologists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here, five minutes from the center of Athens - every day, anyone who passes with the electric, sees it - in the 59th High and High School of Athens - is here in Rizoupolis, before the court of Apollo - not all English hours take place. And High Priest, Minister, she hasn't done a physics yet. And we're in mid-November. He hasn't been a physicist yet. I don't know if you think it's natural that there's no physicist in a school, as it writes a very imaginary slogan, banner that parents have posted there. At the 68th High School of Athens there are hours of philosophers. In Samothraki - to take you back to one of these islands suffering from such problems - we have very great shortages of teachers. The students of the general high school of Samothraki are not taught universally inquiries. Not to mention, of course, special treatment, where, on the basis of official evidence, at least a thousand six hundred - look out! - by specialist scientific staff and special assistant staff. That is the situation today. I think that this is not treated with statements like those made in the parade - because I listened very carefully - of 28 October by the Minister for Equal Opportunities in Education. I don't know if all these kids in all these schools have equal opportunities - we're not talking about equal rights, we're talking about equal opportunities now - with kids in private schools. Everyone has to think about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish. You've been through a lot of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u67	Of course, the request remains, Minister. It is a demand that teachers and parents and all those interested in education will be fighting this year. Immediately at the moment, the thirty-five thousand teachers have to be permanently simulated. About that much are those who have worked and worked in the last few years in education. And it really makes us think about what you said we'll see if they really cover gaps. They really do cover your own way of calculating gaps and even having your own government maintained something "regulatory" of the previous government. You see, it's not like the flag to remove them to make this play on the progressive channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Comrade, please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u69	It's Mr. Friend's regulations, it's not personal, it's SYRIZA's arrangements to eliminate the person responsible for the full day and the cyclicality, the rotation, the teachers in it. And, of course, it's a regulation and it had the third assignment, Madam President, and I'm closing with it. You know, a secondary teacher doesn't only teach the lessons he's studied for. He'll also teach relatives lessons, even non-kind lessons with the third assignment. These regulations of the SYRIZA government the New Democracy Government maintains and exploits them to see...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u70	Mr Colleague, you've gone far beyond your time. Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u71	Mr Delis, I think that with the first part of the answer, as well as the part of the answer concerning Mr Kegeroglu, I have answered the question of gaps. I have kept two comments from the first position on the issue of the topicality of some protests, confiscations or anything that can happen. The solution is never the loss of hours. The solution is never to leave the classroom, to close the school for a request that can be just as resounding, reasonable and reaches our ears, that is to say, to teach. That's a oxymobile. I'm right now, and this is where I call the kids...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u72	Occupations are held to be a lesson.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u73	Losing a lesson in the end or causing the loss of hours to the other children. I therefore call on the children to remain in their classrooms, to enjoy the procedure which we have an unequivocal obligation to give them full time, and I take the responsibility of the Ministry, so that - and I repeat - you can make this comparison among other years, when they can be substitutes and when they will go this year. And I tell the children that the solution is never the loss of hours. The solution can never be the occupation. I'm leaving that one here. Second, you're right. It's been a long time when the deputys are spinning with the suitcase in the hand. It's thirteen, fifteen and twenty years. It was indeed very unpleasant that in 2015 or 2016 they heard they were going to be thirty, twenty-five and twenty-four and then twenty-thousand appointments. It never happened. You wait for us and you do well and you wait - I want there to be increased expectations - to do everything right away. So we're going step-by-step. We will go with what the previous leadership of the Ministry of Education, namely the question of appointments to Special Education, had been launched late. The Act of Ministerial Council took place in February. The process started in April. What are you waiting for? That one could get ahead of school year starts in September 2019? I'm leaving this in your judgment, too. We will therefore go for a step - step by step so that we can rationalise a framework which requires many changes. And as you rightly said, Mr Delis, and I wish that this debate would take place at some point both in the Greek Parliament and in the relevant committees, we will also discuss the content of the education and education provided at some point, what our children must learn, by taking the thread from preschool, to the third grade, at least in my field of competence. Thank you very much for the opportunity to make two parallel comments. I think, however, that on the issue of gaps, which you are putting, you will see a direct reaction from the Ministry within the next weekend and we will, after all, also discuss the gaps which have been given by the directorates, with the availability of sincerity, if you please, because it is an issue that we all have to deal with and how the Ministry responded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, too. Now we will discuss the first question under number 127/22-10-2019 of the second-round question by the Member of Parliament Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on "Problems with the implementation of the programme "A New Authority in the ESDP". Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. So let's talk about this co-financed programme, which was implemented in the first school year in 2017-2018 pilots and last year it extended to all of the country's PSAs, meeting the acceptance and support of the whole educational community. It was also presented as good practice by the European Commission and CEDEFOP. This programme is therefore very important because it aims to support pupils and pupils in their transition to vocational education, to strengthen basic skills, to strengthen the social role of the school and to combat school leakage. And, briefly, it includes alternative reinforcement teaching, psychologists - we hear the events that are taking place in schools every day - activation of the counsellor's institution, creation of funded action plans, equipment of the PSAs with teleconference infrastructures and training of teachers and psychologists. Although cofinancing from the European Social Fund by 2023 has been ensured and the institutional framework for the continuation of the programme has been completed, the Ministry of Education has significantly delayed the moves needed to implement it in the current school year. More specifically, the ministerial decisions on the counsellor, the alternative training and the psychologist's institution were adopted a long time ago on 23 and 24 October, and last year - because you referred to delays - they were adopted much earlier. For psychologists and amplifiers, psychologists and mathematicians were already issued in early August and early October. In addition, no one has been hired to date, with what this means for the implementation of the programme. In other words, the psychologists have not gone to the PSAs and the alternative reinforcement teaching has not started, while the money from the NRP is there and is not absorbed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like another minute, Madam President, and I will not use it in my dentistry. To note, too, that all ministerial decisions were adopted last year, which was done a very large legislative work and all it needed was for them to be re-issued for this year. So there was a ready job. Also, the committees supporting the project, which are necessary for the implementation and coordination of the project and without their functioning, have not yet been enabled to coordinate different services, bodies and individuals. And so, as the project starts, its real implementation does not go any further, because there needs to be cooperation between the Ministry of Vocational Training Directorate, the Ministry of Education, the Centre for "NOSIS", the executive structure of the NSRF, the MAGP, the coordinators of educational pilots, the Education and School Units Directorates. There was also no publication of any relevant circular calling on the teachers' associations to prepare and be activated for the implementation of the project, in particular for the activation of the Professor’s institution, and at the same time last year the relevant circulars had emerged, the first ones in early September. The teleconferencing equipment has not yet been sent to the schools, while the international competition that lasted for over a year has been completed and has been guaranteed to the contractor since June by the previous political leadership. On the other hand, the process of submitting the action plans prepared by the "NOSIS" Centre has begun and has not been announced and the training of teachers and psychologists prepared by the IPE during the previous school year has not been started. In line with this, therefore, I would like to ask you what your design is and what measures you intend to take immediately for the effective continuation of this innovative programme and for its implementation in the current school year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u76	Me too, my colleague. I just want to remind you that you are not allowed by the Rules of Procedure to take time from your dentistry. But you'll take your time properly. I'll give you the time to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u77	I won't talk any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u78	You'll talk. I'll give you the time. I just want you to know that the Rules of Procedure do not allow that. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u79	Mrs Jufi, thank you for the opportunity to talk about the 'A New Authority in the ESDP' programme. I have said so in the Committee on Morphic Affairs that education will not be a micro-political area. We recognized, maintain and try to improve with our own part or with our own policy elements anything that contributed to the field of education, any political leadership or anyone who can have passed through the Ministry with an important deposit. So one of these pieces is the 'A New Authority in the PCAH'. The information you provided, the dates of the joint ministerial decision on alternative teaching, is on 23-10 for New Greek and Mathematics in the context of the "A New Authority" - I speak every time about the publication of the FEKs - on 22-10 for the recruitment of psychologists. The ministerial decision is pending, which I believe we will have within the days, Mrs Jufi, on the distribution of psychologists in the PES. It's the last briefing we've had from the address. For the institution of the Professor-in-Office, I think that a well-coordinated action has indeed been taken. This year will be October 25th. Last year was November 28th. In any case, it improves the system, and I think that we have been able to bring it in sooner. As far as equipment is concerned, on 18 September a address letter was sent to the regional directorates for the establishment of the equipment receiving committees, as you said, the equipment of the ESDP with teleconferencing infrastructure is provided for. Also, as you mentioned - and I thank you for that - the beneficiary of the NOISE operation has already sent the special circular and the information material to the school units in order to submit their proposals. You asked me about the next day. I say to you that I retain all the remarks and the aim is to speed up the next year in terms of the time of the ministerial decisions. It was indeed a very dense quarter in the Ministry at the beginning of the school year. I retain the remarks and we will do so, we will be in our time next year in terms of speeding up the adoption of ministerial decisions. Because you are asking about our aim for the programme in November, the conference on the recording of good practices and the final formulation of the educational and supportive material of the training is organized by the IPP. The preparation of the educational and support material from the IPA, according at least to the information we have from the IPA, I think it is estimated for January 2020. For the beginning of 2020, the training of trainers from the IPE shall also be started and the training programme for teachers will be started. We have taken the necessary steps, we will continue with the support of the programme and with the evaluation of the implementation of the programme in each school unit, to each PSA to which it is implemented. And as we have said before, we are keeping what has been done by the previous political leadership and we will support it, obviously doing our own first evaluation, if you will, if you will, of a programme that is evaluated, but which has already met, I would say, a positive first evaluation from the schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u81	Madam Minister, I am pleased with your position that the positive measures taken by the previous political leadership will be adopted and continued. I think that's to the good of the whole educational community. I should like to say at this point that the part of the ESDP is very critical. It is directed at those children who need much greater support, as is our teachers who serve it. I should like to say that this programme is an innovation that has emerged from the basis, it has come as a proposal from the educational community itself, and that is why it seems that this experience can give very good results. I should also like to remind you that last year the Directors of the ESDP were supplemented by questionnaires, which conclude that it was important to assess the implementation of the programme. The vast majority of the educational community, despite the initial reservations - for the part of the aiding teaching there was a lot of discussion if it can be implemented - supported it at the end of its universal application, which was last year, counted positively at all levels of school life for the pupils' learning and development progress, their active involvement, their stress reduction - we are well aware that many of the events that occur mainly start from such causes - and the improvement of the school climate and the development of a team spirit in the school community, as well as the interconnection with the local society. I have to say to you, on the occasion of this programme, that the programme has been exterminated and it seems to have been well established in the consciousness of parents and children, which is why we also have an increase in the pupils who go in this direction. So we must keep it high, implement it, because it is very important for the effort that has been made, and of course, because there are also secure financial resources, and we must go further. But will you allow me to insist: When will the philosophers and mathematicians get to school for alternative reinforcement teaching and when will psychologists be placed? Also, what measures will you take to overcome this delayed position? Also, if I understand correctly, will the training of teachers and psychologists go for next year? Critical for this is the continuation of cooperation with the CSR to support psychologists in their work. Are you going to continue this cooperation? And, in any case, those committees that exist and play the role of coordination when will you activate them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u82	Me, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u83	Mrs. Jufi, you'll have relevant papers by the end of the week. It's already on track. As soon as we have the CIA for the alternative enhancement teaching, but also the CIA for the recruitment of psychologists, I'm waiting for the minister, I told you about the distribution. You know this, anyway, takes some time. They told us that we would reasonably have it by the end of the week. I think that in the near future we will have the scholars, mathematicians and psychologists in schools. I undertake to come back, if you like, and with a concrete response to the timetable, so that I do not now give you an answer and tell you in two weeks and be inconsistent. I will take the exact answer from the agency and come back to it and, if you like, an announcement in writing. For what we intend to do to cover this, you realize that, in cooperation, as I said before, with the schools' associations, it will be possible there to intensify, if you like, the presence and we will be able to cover this mile, anyway. However, you have no doubt that any assessment at this time has been made, any assessment, as you mentioned before - you mentioned the evaluation made by the 'NOSIS', if I am not mistaken - is the report that has been published and I read it with great interest for each school separately, with few observations, but above all with a generally positive assessment. I repeat, because that is also the essence of this debate, that we are keeping everything from the field right now, from the school class through the PSAs - and for us, you know, we have repeated it many times, vocational training is at the forefront of the effort - so that children can be given a firm professional perspective. We have said that we will, anyway, strengthen the framework of study and between secondary and post-secondary education. At the same time, it is also within our plans, in our programming, the launch of standard professional high school. So I think that this is what we are all agreed on, that strengthening vocational education is currently, if you want, in the front line, if we want to provide sustainable vocational rehabilitation solutions for the children of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u84	Me too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, seventy students and students and five educational sessions from the 1st Drama General School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And we move on to the debate on the last question of today's newspaper, which is the third with number 128/22-10-2019 and a topical question for the second cycle of the MP Kilkis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Irenis - Helen Agathopoulos to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Second Opportunities School of Gumenissa". My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, with the decision of 9 May 2019 establishing the Second Opportunity School in Gumenissa, the last regional unit of central Macedonia, Kilkis, that is, access to this innovative adult education programme that allows those who have not completed compulsory secondary education to obtain a high school education. It is a particularly important institution of the Ministry of Education, which operates successfully, was institutionalised more than twenty years ago and we hope that it will continue to operate after 2021, when the operational programme from which it is financed expires. In particular, the decision to set up the Second Opportunity School of Gumenissa was very important for our prefecture and especially for the Guenisean region and the entire municipality of Paionia. That is why the previous administration of the municipality defended with vigour and chased its establishment, but today is making every effort to solve matters concerning the municipality and the school committees. The Municipality of Paionia has very high percentages of people who have not completed compulsory education. In particular, according to the last census, one in two residents has not completed compulsory education, i.e. they do not have a high school diploma. Apart from this, however, there is another reason why the Second Opportunity School was considered necessary in Guenissa. You will have heard, I imagine, of the famous "Gumenissa Chalkina", excellent musicians in the region with an international reputation. They represent about 20% of the people there, but who, despite their unique and rare talent in music, lack basic education and education. It is also worth mentioning that most of these people are beneficiaries of the social solidarity allowance, which, in order to receive it from 1 November of '18, has become a prerequisite - and we think that - for their school to be completed in compulsory education. So you understand that this is also a need for survival, but at the same time also for the expansion of their spiritual horizons. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like to say - and I will end, Madam President - that these people before the Second Chance School in Guenissa began to attend the Yannitsa Second Chance School, next to the prefecture. So in the initial request of the Municipality of Paionia for the establishment of the Second Opportunity School - documents that I will present to you to have a full picture - the special issue has been included in the second cycle since this year at the Second Opportunities School of Guennish, so that the twelve - thirteen students who exist - are capable of running, creating part - do not have to move to Giannitsa this year. You can understand that this and financially burden them, but also in various other ways. So far, then, there is no answer to the question whether it will operate in a second cycle, which is considered particularly important. Of course, we know that staffing procedures have been a little delayed because of the elections, but today, if I'm not mistaken, it is the first day that the staff members took up work at school. The question is whether all positions and counsellors and career advisor have been paid, but also the post of teachers, so that this school can function properly. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Ireni - Helen Agathopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, my colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u87	Mrs Agathopoulos, the interest and I also think the positive footprint left by the operation of each second opportunity school in the areas that it can operate. Well, you were right to say that on May 9 this school was founded. It has already been directed by Director and Deputy Director. In the call for expressions of interest in August, it was 5 August for the selection of primary and secondary education teachers, no candidates applied. So this current school year will work with mature teachers, you know, with a well-trained educational staff. I can give you numbers - I do not want to tire you - and I do not want to give you the information document from INEDIBIM. The staffing of a well-trained educational staff, with career advisor and psychologist, started on October 29th. With the current decision of the Management Board, all the SGUs and their off-site departments are assigned four hundred seven hundred and seventy-seven staff members and seventeen consultants, who were to be called today, as you mentioned before, by the directors. From today and tomorrow, the second award cycle will take place, so that by Friday, 8 November, the remaining gaps that were not accepted by the candidates during the first award cycle have been covered. This process continues so that all empty positions can be filled. Up to now and through the process of interview, the selection of candidates who will attend the first course of study has already been completed - you mentioned it - and two sections have been set up for the first cycle with a total of forty trainees. For these reasons, and given the fact that the Second Opportunity School of Gumenissa is newly established, the first course of study is planned for the current school year. The note is that a second cycle is not possible for this year. This is at least from the responsible department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u89	Minister, it is well known that the second opportunity schools were set up to date began with the first cycle and the second year there was a second one. But there is one particular feature, which has been made known to the Ministry from the first request of the municipality, and we would like you to take it into account. In fact, this population is not able to move for an extra year in the next municipality, in the next prefecture. These people are beneficiaries of the social income of solidarity, and it is a pity to lose their year for this year, because many of them have said they will not attend the lessons of the second cycle if they are forced to move to Giannitsa. So I think it is a purely political initiative that you should take. I also think that the only difficult one here is covering the extra hours with an hourly payroll. So there, once the appropriations are in place, I do not think that this is a difficult thing. Finally, I think that we cannot, on the one hand, prescribe to these people the social income of solidarity - which, I repeat, have gone in correctly - but, on the other hand, do not see to it that the state does not give it to them on the one hand and on the other. So we ask you to see this matter warmly. I cannot, however, take the time left for him not to take advantage of the issue which is also burning. The question has been raised by many colleagues. I just give you - since I have time - the issue, because it is also about the Kilkis Prefecture schools. Today we had four high school conquests, in Guenissa, in Kilkis, in Europe, in Mouris, etc. So there, Minister, because you have raised the fact that new subsistence recruitments will take place on Wednesday, I would draw your attention to the fact that, apart from the recruitments, the Ministry must approve the directional sections which have not been approved at the moment because, if the departments are not approved, there is obviously no provision for their staff. I would not like you to give me the answer that it is a matter of the recommendations of the training directors, because the managers had to make a positive or negative recommendation, depending on whether the gaps were covered or not. That is why their initial recommendation was negative in terms of the functioning of these sections. However, since they have found that, in order for a section to function, there must be a positive recommendation, I have it and their suggestions, they are now positive. So this is a clear decision of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u90	Thank you too, my colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u91	For the first time, for the operation of the second cycle, you realise that once something is not foreseen, because it is also outside the scope of competence, a first point is that it would perhaps also create a disparate treatment to the other parts, in which the second cycles probably in the first year of operation would not have been accepted. We shall, however, be transferring, as is already being transferred to the appropriate secretariat, the request that you are currently asking for the operation of the second cycle. I repeat, of course, that it is important to hear that a second cycle is not provided for when it is a newly established section. You already know that. You also partially made a reference to this. Now, with regard to gaps, you talk about different cases. I know the cases right now in Kilkis. I have been working since the beginning of the year, in cooperation with Mr Koptsis, the Regional Director, and the relevant directors on the issue of the approval of a few Members. I would like to point out that, compared to last year, I have personally approved more than two thousand five hundred departments. You know that the approval of each section has certain specific obligations, namely the uniqueness of the section, obviously the number of children and the proximity of the next part which can have this type of section or similar section. We've seen each other on a case-by-case basis. We really saw her separately, individually. We've spent too many hours approving the oligoberals. Some, in fact, accused us of having been very generous in the approval of fewer people. I'll accept that charge if we're going to meet educational needs. In fact, there was a negative suggestion - you said it too - to the training directors. We have tried in a way that does not create inequality and injustice in parts - these have been our main factors, if you want, apart from the objective factors for each region - to be fair in the matter of the oligopoly. Be sure that in the remaining gaps in Kilkis, the needs, but generally in Macedonia and throughout Greece, we will try - as I said before - within the prescribed limit, within the commitment that I have given you for the next two days to meet the needs. I have already answered to a relevant question - the issues of a few parts, because I repeat that we have been particularly - I would say - careful to approve parts throughout Greece and, of course, to other parts which have been approved throughout central Macedonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-04-S1-commons.u93	With the consent of the House at 19.46' the sitting on Thursday, 7 November 2019 at 9:30, on the subject of the House: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
