ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 14-11-2019, the minutes of its meeting of Thursday 14 November 2019 were confirmed by the Bureau of the MZ Bureau.]] In his letter, the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House of: "We hereby inform you of the debate on the topical and urgent questions under parliamentary scrutiny on Friday 15 November 2019, making it impossible to present the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Konstantinos Karamanlis, to whom No. I should like to ask the President-in-Office whether he is prepared to give us an answer to this question. He's on a mission inside. The topical and urgent debate is as follows: Questions Nos 204/12-11-2019 and 206/12-11-2019 Question No 732/17-9-2019 pursuant to Rule 130(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr Vassiliou Kikilia. The numbers. 190/7-11-2019, 192/8-11-2019 and 210/12-11-2019 topical questions will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Konstantinos Hatzidakis. The numbers. 195/11-11-2019, 196/11-11-2019 and 205/12-11-2019 topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Eleftherios Economou. The numbers. 207/12-11-2019 topical question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis.' Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first is the 210/12-11-2019 topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Not in the construction and operation of new HYTAs at the Integrated Waste Management Installation (OEDA) Grove". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, our question concerns the well-known crime of lasting, serial crime - and perhaps these designations have been mild - which have been perpetuating for decades by the governments of all the parties along with the regional administrations and certain mayors in western Athens and West Attica. We are referring to the Gender HYTA, which, instead of closing down - as was the permanent commitment to the inhabitants all these years - has, in catastrophically, been with sudden fast track and, in many cases, it has been decided to extend it in secret. And it was decided to extend it from New Democracy and SYRIZA together, that is, from the outgoing Regional Command of Ms. Dourou and the new Regional Command of Mr. Patolis, who have ratified the ECHR's decision to build and operate a new CYTA for a minimum capacity of four million cubic metres, which can with a minimum of four years. And we all know that this is never observed, because with the various extensions and condensations that occur in the intervening period, this function is being extended much longer. As if it were not enough to function for about half a century of this health and environmental bomb in western Attica - which has proved to have serious consequences for the health of the population on the basis of official statistics - as if the other problems faced by the inhabitants of a heavily affected area with many problems, with unemployment, with insecurity, as if mocking had not been enough for years now, this development, which is now, quite rightly, causing the indignation and anger of the inhabitants of a policy that sacrifices the environment and public health at the altar of the profits and interests of a handful of groups, which are, in fact, the treasures of waste management. And this policy is not just about the Race, it also concerns the Graphics. It also concerns other areas that have been removed from the past and which have to do with the conversion of quarries into landfills and which we will naturally bring to Parliament with new questions. Our question is: What will the government do to prevent the newly attempted crime against the inhabitants of Western Attica, to close directly the HYTA and what attitude will it take in the process of issuing the environmental and other authorisations of the new HYTA, which is illegal, because it is provided for in an area of absolute protection, which falls under exclusion criteria? And what will it do to restore the space and the wider region, prepare an integrated epidemiological study without delay and ban any new waste management activity in the wider region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis, will answer you. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Gioka, no one doubts that the inhabitants of the wider region have indeed been discussing the issue you have raised for years and nobody disputes that both the municipality of the region and the municipalities concerned have been aware of this. But look at the picture too and I want you to tell me - if I am wrong - an alternative. There was a design since 2014 by the then regional director, Mr. Skouros for a comprehensive waste management with integrated waste treatment plants in Attica based on regional planning, based on locations that had been made. All of this was subsequently abandoned by the previous district commander, Mr Duru, in the name of a super-familiar design, which has never been implemented. That is why we have the image that the Prime Minister himself saw in April visiting the Race HYTAS and said that the entire Attica is sitting on a garbage clock bomb. I saw this picture on the 21st of August when I visited the same site. And I noted - I saw it with my eyes - that only some temporary, emblematic solutions can be given to the attempt in the meantime to find a more permanent solution for the management of Attica waste. I wish we could find a solution tomorrow morning, but that's all we can do in the cartoons, Mr. Gioka. There can be no automatic solution, because there must be planning from the region, there must be approvals, competitions, and competitions to build the project. Well, at this point in time we do have a request from the Single Inter-State Association of the Attica Prefecture, which is not the Government, which is not the competent body with representatives of local government, who, in a written briefing he sent us on the subject, says that through the tendering contract, it is intended to find a temporary, intermediate solution to the management of Attica's solid waste in order to allow time for the launch and implementation of the actions envisaged by the Regional Waste Management Plan at Attica. In this respect, therefore, this interim solution was called upon to grant approval by the Environmental Authorisation and Waste Management Directorates of the Ministry of Environment and Energy at the request of the Single Inter-State Liaison Committee of the NAS, i.e. in some way the Attica Region. That's the situation. And I'm asking the question, and then we'll talk about it in my dentistry. In view of all this situation that I have presented to you and which you do not question, given that this is the picture of the moment today, what do you propose? Are you suggesting I don't do anything? Are you suggesting I cancel everything? Shouldn't I go ahead and tomorrow morning find the whole stain with trash hills? What are we gonna do then? Because I understand the criticism and I understand the ideological differences, but from one point to the next there is a management issue. As long as you're in my position, what would you do, Mr. Gioka?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Giokas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we know very well, especially those who are aware of this region, that all the extensions made to the Gender HYTA in previous years were made with the Temporary horizon. So they said to the inhabitants, "it's for three to four years", "for two years", "for six months, then the Gender closes". Still the same thing happens. The pretext of the interim programme extends the Race for at least four years, and here it is absolutely no more permanent than the provisional one. Mrs Dourou's outgoing regional administration has carried out this regional planning. That's the problem. You say 'what do we do?'. That is the permanent question. Every time we ask these questions, the permanent question is 'what to do'. Of course you, Minister, are not yesterday. You were also in previous governments which - not only yours, but all governments - are responsible for this planned and designed deadlock. That is what we are dealing with in terms of waste management in Attica. We are dealing with a studyed and drunken deadlock conscious, in order to then impose solutions with the pistol on the head of the population, either grammatical or other solutions, which we will see in the next few months, burning through the mixed waste treatment plants, the basic product of which is RDF the garbage fuel. That's the whole story. Here too, there are some irresponsible questions to answer. What are these questions? Why is recycling by sorting at source which could reduce waste production with all governments and all regional administrations for years? Why has the governments, for years now, entrusted businessmen with recycling, and even with unimportant subsidies, even today, the vastly large proportion of waste is being buried? Why will even the design you make and its predictions say that at best by 2030 approximately half of the mixed waste will be buried? These are the questions that need to be answered and which create these data as you say. Is scientific knowledge missing? Oh, no. Are technological and technical tools missing? Of course they're not gone. What's missing? A design is missing with a public body that will not treat garbage as a source of profit, what some years ago said that garbage is gold, but will promote people's needs. Today, it is the policy that is being implemented, both by the previous governments and by the present one, that delivers a critical area for public health and the environment to entrepreneurs by sacrificing people's needs. Because, Minister, the businessman, even the recycler, is interested in recycled and regained this product of commercial value. Let the other one continue to be buried. That's a problem. It is not therefore - and I shall end, Mr President - a technical or a problem of placement. Appropriate locations with exclusion, burdensome areas or areas of high environmental value could be found if all other measures, in particular the recycling and waste reduction measures, were taken. Politics is therefore the problem, and not just we, but the mayors of the region are also calling it, and I will put a letter to that effect - a statement by the mayors of western Athens. It is not a JRC, Minister, who highlight these problems. So here we are talking about a drunken deadlock to impose anti-grassroots solutions, and I say you have to answer what you are going to do about the issue you have mentioned, too, of the adoption of environmental conditions, given that we are also talking about an illegal extension that falls under exclusion criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u8	To be honest, I have not heard any counter-proposal from Mr Gioka. Because obviously the sorting recycling at source is our own policies, such as our own policy, and the introduction of practically the coffee bin for organic products, which is to a large extent that these policies will obviously ease the problem, will help to adapt Greece to the most advanced countries in Europe. Except that all takes some time. However, the problem of Race, the problem of waste management in Attica is a direct one, it is in the coming months. We must all understand that. Mr Giokas says that 'you are not yesterday and yesterday, Mr Hatzidakis.' Indeed, just because I am not yesterday and yesterday, I remember the solutions that we had started when I was Minister of Development in 2012-2014, responsible for public-private partnerships, PPP contracts. Then with these contracts we had for Serres and Epirus entered the rails of integrated waste management units and the problem of waste management in both Epirus and Serres has been solved thanks to our own policies. At the same time, however, corresponding contracts signed by accident at the same time, in the same month as the Epirus Convention in Attica and Corfu were cancelled after the SYRIZA regional authority in Attica and by the Mayor of SYRIZA in Corfu. They were cancelled and the result is what you are describing today in Attica and what all Greece knows with the garbage in Corfu. Well, here's the cost of populism, that's how much we all pay together that we're leaving from practices that exist throughout Europe. I do not claim any of my own patents for waste management. I see what is happening in the advanced European countries and I recommend that we do this in our country too. So, coming back to the Attica issue, I would like to say that on this basis we have asked the Attica Region to submit the plan for waste management in Attica as part of the new regional plan for waste management. In the next few months, Mr Patoulis, the new regional director and the Attica Regional Council will be submitting their proposals and on the basis of these proposals we will be moving. Obviously, every party is tabling its proposals. The JRC's self-government team on the Attica Regional Council will table its own proposals. Everything is taken into account, but what I say to you, Mr Gioka - and that is what we say to self-government - is that we must all be practical and accountable. We do not need to find out what is happening in Germany, Sweden, Austria and Italy. Let us finally do so in Greece, and stop being the last of these in waste management.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much. I would ask you very much to ask questions in time. Don't let the time run around and then ask the question, after the bell rings, because there's a very proper schedule from the children, and then we have a plenary, there's an event on November 17 and we'll have time. Today we have ten questions to discuss. Please very much. Now we will discuss the number 190/7-11-2019, the first topical question for the second cycle, the Member of the Boeotia Movement of Change Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Act of General Mining and Metalworking S.A. (LAUGHING) S.E.) 'LARCO' and the safety of its workers'. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, the question is then a previous one, which has, of course, not been answered from 10-10 to 19. This question came after a tragic event, you know, a death of a family man, father of three children. It's the second accident since July. July month had another fatal accident. Two days ago, since this fatal accident in LARCO, we have not been mourning victims. Wonderful workers were not beaten, as during the tests in the electricity department, a fired ore of twenty-five tonnes fell because the rope broke. If they were working underneath, you realize what we'd have to deal with. Minister, this is a big issue for LARCO. Fatal accidents have a “preciously sad” situation tragic. You know we've had seventy-eight deadly statistics since her operation, six in the last decade, two in the last four months. Following on from this, given that the association has repeatedly announced and denounced the lack of security measures, it had last day, as if it were the time of a previous fatal accident, to issue a communication with very well-documented situations and complaints about the tragic situation of a lack of security in this operation and the question, Mr Minister, to you, is what measures had been taken in the past five years, in relation to the controls on the supervision of medals, in relation to the fatal and non-accidents and compliance with health and safety measures. Also, after the accident the lethal in July, some measures were taken and what conclusions the inspection took. And finally, Minister, what about LARCO? What is the course of 'LARCO' and what is the government's position on 'LARCO'? That is a question that is also in the previous question that has not been answered. Please for the government's opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Mulkiotis and your good work. The Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Konstantinos Hatzidakis, will answer you. Minister, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u12	Mr Mulkiotis, I will talk about our plan with LARCO, but before I talk about it, I will talk about the very serious issue that has to do with the two accidents, the two human lives that have been lost, one July - one month before the Ministry of the Environment and Energy takes responsibility for LARCO - and the last accident that took place a few days ago. Indeed, it is an extremely sad fact. I have asked for responsibility from the first moment. There are all the relevant research at this time in progress and by coincidence, today, the State Secretary responsible, Thomas, is in Larco, in order to formulate himself an own opinion, but also to have discussions with both management and, above all, workers on the problems of Larco, in particular, on health and safety issues in Larco. The information I have about this extremely problematic company - in all areas of difficulty - is that in the last six cycles of preventive checks have been carried out at Larco's facilities, both in the metallurgy complex in Larymna and in the mines, construction sites and engineering facilities in the prefectures of Evia, Fthiotis and Viotia. After every preventive inspection, the mining inspection issued decisions to take specific security measures and imposed administrative fines on the company, which are, of course, a drop in the ocean, these administrative fines in relation to the money that the company owes - I will come back to that. The competent authority's decisions were taken on the basis of the legislation in force and obviously because there were problematic points in the way ‘LARCO’s installations operate during the checks. In addition to the preventive checks, the inspection of mines has carried out additional checks to investigate complaints or accidents at the premises. This is the information I have and according to the same information, six checks were carried out in 2016, 2017 and 2018 following a complaint to the service or accidents at the premises in LARCO. This is generally the case with regard to health and safety conditions and controls. But you, Mr. Mulkiotis, and you have a picture, I am sure you have visited the company, you will see that this operation is an undertaking that suffers from a variety of things. So I'm trying to find a point which I can show as an example of the success of this operation and I can't find. And, unfortunately, I must say that the accidents which have been done despite the controls are also partly due to the company's depreciation, its inability to go ahead and coordinate with the rhythms of the time. Finally, the victims are literally victims, unfortunately, the workers themselves. We therefore need a fundamental review of the issue of 'LARCO', precisely in our minds, primarily the interests of the workers themselves. Because in recent years - and not only in recent years - we have all seen that this cannot go too far, not as far as human beings are concerned. You see what's going on. So either we decide to deal with the issue radically, overall and responsibly, or we will ostracize and do all the things that are happening at times, the accidents, you will come and ask me questions, I will give answers and the thing will go from bad to worse. Well, the government is determined to find radical solutions to this issue for the benefit of local society and workers, but with realism and the government's backing on the facts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Mulkiotis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u14	Unfortunately what you said, indeed, that six checks have been carried out between 2016 and 2018 is also a sample of how the services and the auditing mechanisms, which unfortunately only work on paper and are not working for the benefit of both the economy and the company and the health and safety of workers, are working. It is incomprehensible, Minister, in three years' time that six checks have been carried out and in 2019 none has been done. So at least they haven't informed you, in the sense of the essentiality of the check. We can't have fatal accidents and nobody's talking. To see them go through fatal accidents as if nothing were happening, in fact in a polypathic LARCO, for which there are too many responsibilities. Of course, Mr Minister, I will submit to the minutes a statement from the association which was a time-limit for accidents, as if he were a veteran of evil. But they saw it every day! The governors don't know what's going on over there? They didn't see and see what's going on? In any case, should this LARCO not take another value given the great importance of the ore? [[At this point, the Member, George Mulkiotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, it is known to you too. You didn't open your papers, of course, you didn't say what the government might do, but it's a major issue that, beyond the debts of "LARCO" in PPC, which has its problems and there is a combination, apart from the recovery amounts to be made by the Greek Government of the various grants that have been made and in relation to the European Union, there is a problem, at least like this, there seems to be other issues: an administration that makes investment or cooperation with European groups or with the Swiss company "TELF S.A." and we don't know what has happened and, of course, an administration or a "LARCO" which knows that beyond the nickel there is a subproducer, but it is essential, cobalt. There are only announcements and publications but too many issues about the cobalt, which is rare. LARCO has it, Greece has it and a European Union is forced to import from countries other than Finland, from Russia or from the Congo cobalt in order to meet your own needs. It could therefore also, because the necessary investments are not made to make use of this cobalt, which is so necessary and which will, of course, bring enormous sums into the Greek economy. It's the big deal. But apart from what I said and insist, Minister, I would like to say that the issue of health and safety, regardless of other priorities and planning, is the major one and the government must see it. Can't the Medals Inspectorate say so, unregulated, I'll say, for six checks in three years in a business like this with such human potential and continue fatal accidents and whistle indifferently.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u16	Mr Mulkiotis, in order to reach agreement with both the workers and to communicate with the residents of the counties to put things in a row. This government took over in July. The Ministry of Energy took over supervision of this company in August and the new administration was placed in early October. Until then, we were operating with SYRIZA's administration and a legacy we found from SYRIZA and from previous governments, of course. You know, the situation at all levels in LARCO is dramatic and it cannot be corrected simply by an inspection of the Medals Directorate which obviously needs to be carried out and obviously needs to be intensified and it must be investigated clearly what happened with the accident and accounted for. However, the problem is very comprehensive and cannot be corrected, we do not have these illusions. It is not corrected because a fine from the Mining Department will be imposed on this company in particular. Why won't it be corrected? Because in this company, and not fleas, we are talking about, because it will be ignored, as all the previous years ignores all the other obligations, I regret to refer to specific elements for Greek citizens to know. This company is a company that is currently PPC's first debtor throughout the country. It owes PPC 330 million today, as we speak, ladies and gentlemen. This company, the same company, is a company that has been ordered by the Court of Justice of the European Union to give back to the State’s State aid of EUR 165,000 000 from illegal state aid. This company is a company for which there are many complaints that it pollutes your area, the Evian Gulf, destroys the natural environment. Do you want me to go on? Always and forgive me, when we are sensitive to the environment, we cannot be sensitive to the environment in Attica, Thessaloniki or anywhere in the country but not where LARCO operates and pollutes. Where's that thing going? On the one hand, accidents, because the situation is out of control, debts to PPC, a champion of the "LARCO" debts to PPC, illegal State aid that must be repaid to the State and cannot, complaints of an environmental burden. Do you not think, too, that all the Members of the region need to see the issue as we deal with it everywhere, for all other public or private enterprises? I told you to look first at the workers' center. I am not saying the opposite, but the workers and institutions in the region must understand that there is a certain margin. There is a decision by the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission, which has come as a result of the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union in relation to State aid, which speaks of a new scheme in the company, two competitions which can be made at the same time, a tender for the factory, another tender for the mines, to make a reopening in some way of the new company, this company. I do not know if after five years - 2014 was this decision - and after the burden of the problem all of this still applies. We will fight to get them into force, and it is not obvious that they will. I'm saying this so we're all landed and on foot on the ground. From there on, we will strive to move towards a solution that is legally valid, solid, so that it is not called into question for many different reasons in Greece and Brussels and, on the other hand, a solution that is attractive to investors because, as you can see, the investors who do not go to inherit debts, problems, deficits, fines, loose ends and so on. It is a very great and serious effort to bring the Ministry of Energy and the Environment to an end. We will do it with all the seriousness that is required from the point of view of the political world, with respect for the local communities and workers, but, please understand the problem, understand that there are no magic solutions, that we have paid extremely accurately the logic of statism and populism in this country and LARCO is a mirror of this very concept. So I welcome everyone to help...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u17	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u18	... to proceed with finding a solution regardless of the attitude of all the government will do its duty toward workers, to the Greek citizens, to the taxpayers and to the national economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Minister, the next question is addressed to you. The third, with number 192/8-11-2019, will be asked for a topical question by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and a Member of the Arcadia of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'What is the government's plan for Megalopolis?' Mr. Constantinople, you know my place and you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am going directly to the point and I am not going to refer to the PPC bill and the new data you have brought. You know our views. I will go directly, even if we disagree, with our position, and I think also with the perspective of the region. What happens in Megalopoli after the closure of the units that you have announced to come much earlier? To explain and be very clear about not seeing them with the previous government, we had a meeting with you in the Conference of Presidents on the new President of the Green Fund, if I am not mistaken, where Mr Famelos was present, it was clear that the previous government, both from the Green Fund and from the Fair Transfer Fund in the previous four and a half years, SYRIZA did absolutely nothing about Megalopolis. I am therefore closing the matter because it is easy, so as not to discuss anything else, they have all accepted that SYRIZA did not give a single euro. Here, however, there is one topic: an area such as Megalopoli, the next time, based on your announcements, will be devastated if there are no initiatives. I will proceed immediately, because I want to respect the time. In order to avoid desertification, the region needs tax incentives. It takes road axes where they can create better conditions, such as the Lefktro Road Axis - Olympia. Specific incentives are needed to install logistics operations in the region. I would say that this space could be exploited - and I say so - as a park of electricity, for example, the bauxite in Arachova. It could bring a lot of visitors to the area. A special development plan with special incentives is needed. Also - and I am ending this, because time is running out - it must at least be district heating, Minister. So, here we go after four years of expansion of district heating and if the plant shuts down, we won't have any remote heating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much. And this question will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Kostantinos Hatzidakis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u22	Mr Constantinople, in fact, there was no preparation for defoliation, although the previous government could not see - the problem created by lignite. The lignite, where it was sometimes regarded as a diamond and a gem of PPC, became heavy because of the European Union's decisions on carbon dioxide emissions. PPC lost 200,000,000 euros in 2018 alone from lignite in 2018. In 2019, due to an increase in carbon dioxide charges, it will lose 300,000,000 euros. In all likelihood, the thing will evolve by worsening every year thereafter. So the New Democracy Government has decided to go ahead with defoliation, both for environmental reasons - because we cannot commit ourselves internationally and ignore our commitments - but also for economic reasons. Because lignite is a burden for PPC, an already accredited company. We are therefore moving towards a holistic plan to deal with the problem, both in western Macedonia, which is a region which will obviously have various consequences from ligniteification and the Megalopolis region. As this goes beyond the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, I can tell you today that an Interministerial Committee will be set up with all the co-chairmen responsible for coordinating the actions of the Government. This committee will be supervised for the overall plan for degreasement and the consequences of lipomatisation, while at the same time, a special coordinator with experience in managing such draft interministerials will be placed to deal with the problem as best and as quickly as possible. Obviously, we are - and we will continue - in contact with the mayor of the region, with the actors in the region - and with the Members of the region, in order to tackle a problem, which is a relatively new problem, not only for Greece, but also for the other countries of Europe. I understand very well what you have said to us in relation to alternatives. We are not far from such approaches. We also look forward to working with you in order to jointly formulate a plan to deal with the consequences.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Constantinople, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you understand that today we will not discuss the bill. It is another case which will come to plenary next week and we will say our opinion, as the municipal council has said. I am tabling the decision of the City Council in the Minutes, which was taken last week. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Minister, I would like to mention two, three issues, which I think you should know about Megalopolis, so that you can understand what is happening. Of course, as far as western Macedonia is concerned, I am not elected and I do not know exactly. Today, in Megalopoli, if these two units are closed down, we will have a staff reduction. Right now, he has around the eight hundred permanent and three hundred with eight months, Minister. They are, in other words, close to the two and a half thousand people in this process. They're not all from Megalopolis. This should be replaced in a way. As strange as it may seem, we have to find a way to replace this. For example, a friend in Megalopolis estimates that it is thirty million a month. They have to be replaced somehow. That is a very big issue. However, I would like to say two points which the previous government has not heard. And I want to testify. We tabled an amendment on 25 February 2016 - because the big issue is where we will find the money - as a compensatory benefit to reduce the lignite production that we have seen since the system of revenues from auctioning unsold greenhouse gas emission allowances for the period 2016-2020. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I also give the opinion of the energy municipalities. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Minister, this dialogue must end sometime. You know, we usually make the committees so we don't make a decision. On the basis of the data you bring about the closure of lignite plants - beyond whether or not we disagree - we need to see reality. This committee in the next semester, seven months to have a plan. If it does not have a plan in the next six months, a seven-month plan, in fact, will go into a circle where the four-year period will end, and in the end we will end up closing the units and staying a devastated area. I want to believe - and this will in particular be your commitment - in the next six months, after this dialogue with all the social actors in the region and outside - because there are other areas in Europe that are good examples - to come here in six, seven months and to commit yourself to the committee responsible in plenary to see the plans, both for Megalopolis and western Macedonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. In PPC we have been trying in a few months to do things that should be done all the previous years. We proceeded with their liquidity measures. Already, we have two certificates from different sources that PPC has at least exceeded the question of its survival. We are moving forward with the bill to modernise PPC, seeking to make it more competitive. And the bill will come in the next few days to be discussed in Parliament's plenary. We will proceed with the privatisation of the TEDO to put money in the pocket of PPC and to modernise the TEDO. We shall proceed with a courageous opening - and very quickly - by PPC to renewable energy sources. Because it is shameful that the largest electricity company in the country has only 3% of the renewable energy market. We will also proceed with the defoliation for which there was no advance. There was a resource deposited since May on the Green Fund bank account of EUR 31.4 million for which the previous government is proud. Everyone who knows the issue of liberation and PPC know that these amounts are dropping in the ocean. In any case, we have already instructed the Green Fund to proceed quickly with the use of this money, but we will go even further. First of all, we are already studying how to make maximum use of the new ESDP resources. It is good that the resources of the new ESRB are, anyway, obligated - I am not pretending to be the hero - to give it to action on climate change. So it's already something very positive. But in addition to that, as it is a basic policy of the European Union, degreasing will also claim increased funds from the European Fair Transfer Fund, as it is called, the Just Translation Fund, so that Greece, which will be in the forefront of liberation, can also benefit from the corresponding treatment on the part of the European Union. Because we want to have completed the liberation process in 2028, while other countries, such as Germany, were going to go in 2038. It is therefore precisely because of our forward policy that we also claim more resources from the European Union. So the new NRP, the Fair Transition Fund and we will also speed up the procedures to mobilise the EUR 130 million from the end of PPC, which should have been attributed to the regions and municipalities since 2014 and which have not been attributed. We are pursuing a global approach to this issue, we will remain in contact with the local government, with the district, with the MPs, with the workers, so that this truly large program of liberation, which we have in front of us, can progress smoothly, without leaving signs to the regions. It's gonna be a good thing in total. It will benefit PPC environmentally, it will benefit PPC, and that is why we are doing so, but we will obviously pay great attention to the consequences that may exist in these regions, which are entitled to a future without lignite.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much. We move on to the sixth question under number 207/12-11-2019 of the second question by MP B2 West Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "Efficiency of the old OSE train station to its citizens". Mr Arsenis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, the situation in the Saints Anargyrus is very special. We have a municipality that is hairy - and only the Saints Anargyroi, except for the Cameroon - because there is a huge camp on the one hand, the OSE train station and the main roads, which separate this municipality in towns and break it down. We have a great opportunity, the performance of the old OSE train station to the citizens of St. Anargyra. It's an abandoned train station not used by the OSE. It belongs to GAOSE and is indeed an opportunity to take recreational and cultural action there. It is something that is a constant demand from both the municipality over time and with all the administrations, it is also a request for the city's current administration and we really want to ask you to look at it carefully. This station must be attributed to the municipality as soon as possible, it must be restored, if you want, to close these holes at the heart of the town-planning fabric of St. Anargyra, to integrate the municipality, with actions for the citizens. It is a municipality that, like all of western Athens, suffers very much from the disgracefulness of the HYTA phylis, but also from the transported pollution from Triasios and from industrial pollution and deterioration of the quality of life, which was the norm, unfortunately, in the past for western Athens. We have a chance to overthrow it and I ask you to say 'yes' to giving this OSCE train to the municipality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much. He has the floor for the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Kefaliannis, to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I would first like to say that both the Ministry and the relevant bodies, namely OSE and GEOSE, have, over the years - and I do not think anyone disputes it - have contributed a great deal of important work specifically to the city of Saints Anargyra, but I would also say to the wider region. We must also not forget that, in essence, all these areas of the Municipality of Agios Anargyra - Kamaterou have been linked to the suburban, and in this way, there is now a breath from the centre. In fact, the link to the suburban is not only made by the new railway station of St. Anargyra, but the wider area, as you well know, is, in fact, served by two other stations, by the Kato Acharnai and also by the King of Vassilis. So there are three service stations and I think that the social work of both OSE and ERGOSE and, of course, GAOSE - the subsidiaries of the group - is clear, no one disputes it and I believe that the inhabitants of the regions themselves, in the broadest sense, are saying so. Let me also tell you that the inhabitants of the region have benefited for another reason, because the projects that the OSE has done on the rail network have been accompanied by very important refreshment and greenery projects that have been carried out on top of this station. I refer to urban regeneration projects, children's joys, football stadiums, tennis stadiums, basketball stadiums, cycling streets, pedestrian roads, and generally green and plantations surfaces, which -note - extend over a length of 1,870 meters. And all this was done with an older contractor in the context of the submersion of the St. Anargyro railway station and I think this is a very big social offer both from OSCE and GAOSE throughout the region. And, of course, it is self-evident that both the Ministry and the relevant bodies have not only done all these things, but certainly they have not been indifferent to the region and the inhabitants. And I am being given the opportunity, Mr President, to stress that, after three or four years, the same form, namely refreshment, green and, more generally, a wider offer to the society from the point of view of the ERGOSE and the OSE, will also apply in a region just beyond St. Anargyros. I am referring to the subjugation of Sepolis. In fact, a few days ago a project was launched that had been stuck for too many years. I'm closing up with these first thoughts, and I'm going to expand more into my dentistry. However, I will mention that both the Ministry and its supervised bodies have shown that they can also offer the whole of society as a whole beyond the transport project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, you have not answered my question at all. It was very important what you said about the OSE's offer. It's good to respond to the protology, because, as you know, in your denology, I can't answer you. There are obviously very important infrastructures that have been made in the past. You know very well - and we discussed it with the Minister in the previous on-site cycle, last week - the terrible transport problem that the Municipality of Agia Anargyro - Kamaterou has had, apart from the suburban in fact, been cut off so far from the center of Athens and the centre of Athens is cut off from the Metropolitan Park Tritsis, an infrastructure for all the residents of Attica. In any case, beyond that, the question here is what will happen with the abandoned train station of the OSE. And it's a central issue for the city, because it can give breath by integrating a huge space into the heart of the Saints Anargyns into the urban fabric, with cultural actions, with leisure activities, to belong this space to the citizens, to the citizens and to become an organic part of the municipality. It's a self-evident request. If you see the map of the area, you'll see this hole in the town's web. It can't last any longer. We fear that in the end you will proceed with a process of privatisation by losing public access to the public, with the loss of the public character of this region. It must be attributed to the municipality in public use. This is the citizens' request, this is the demand of both the mayor and the municipality over time and I would even like you to respond to your dentistry: do you commit to responding to this permanent demand of the municipality, to make the citizens of this old OSCE train station in Agios Anargyros? It's a right and self-evident request. And look at the map. You will understand about the hole in the city web that is currently the train station, in the heart of the Holy Anargys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u34	Mr Colleagues, as far as the link between transport and the wider region is concerned, the Minister replied to you, and I think he was very specific in his reply. Now, with regard to, I repeat, the social role that OSE and ERGOSE have played, namely, the two subsidiaries, all these years, I mentioned them in my prototype and I did not mention them at random. It is to show you that many times when even infrastructure is carried out very important, which can typically be only for the transport project, they are always accompanied by projects, which in fact have a benefit to the wider society, whether they are, as I said, green regenerations or projects that include land and generally deliver to the wider society. I would like to say to you, however, that the railroad in general - and it is also a basic admission of our Ministry and, if you like, a key priority - has entered a development path and a new path through the development and implementation of projects of strategic importance, which, in particular, we believe - and I think it will be almost anyone in this Chamber - can be one of the main levers of development for the country and not, of course, only for the economy, but also have multiple benefits for society as well. I mentioned one of the projects, which were unleashed a few days ago. I am referring to the subjugation of the Sepolis, as this project is widely known, and which concerns the construction of the quadruple rail corridor from the exit of the Athens railway station to the Three Bridges. I mention this because, more generally, the OSE as manager of the national railway infrastructure and as part of this planning considers it very likely that the use of not only the new St. Anargyra railway station, but also the wider area, which, of course, also includes the old OSE train station in the area and, more generally, the design it is doing for the Western Attica transport project. I would also mention that GAIAOSE from its own property, if you would like, is an approach to the use of its own property - the state GAIAOSE rather than any private GAIAOSE, of course - appreciates that this area, which you are discussing for free, has specific potential for recovery, which may lead to an increase in the revenues of the Greek public and, on the other hand, perhaps to a further renewal of the wider region. I am referring to green again and to uses which can be attributed to society. So, Mr President, you see that the property in question is not simply an abandoned concept, but essentially at the moment, both OSE and GAIAOSE are working on various footages of possible use of this site. So either in view of the use of the area and the real estate of the Greek State and the performance of social activities towards the wider region or using it as part of the wider planning of the OSE for the Western Attica transport project, in any case, it is not an area that we simply have. But I must tell you that both the Ministry and the relevant bodies, namely OSE, GAIAOSE, are in any case prepared to discuss with society a useful solution, a beneficial solution, which will in fact be in the broadest sense for everyone. And I think that in this context the municipality could also, for example, submit a request to GAIAOSE for the potential use of the area and of that station or, for example, through a lease. A free concession cannot be made at the moment. However, in any case, if GAIAOSE decides to exploit its property, the municipality could also be one of which could participate in this competition. In any case, however, I will tell you - and I thank you for the opportunity you give me - that, if you like, a meeting could also take place through an invitation from this municipality of Saints Anargyro - Kamaterou, in which I would be delighted to see if you would like to participate, so that we can see all possible solutions for this station and perhaps sit with the local society and find possible solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Next question is the second question under number 195/11-11-2019 of the First Circuit of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Bia and lawlessness in the center of Thessaloniki - SOS address residents, professionals, students and visitors". Mr. Triantafylides, you have two minutes at your disposal and please do not embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I stand toward you because as a SYRIZA MEP with a government of SYRIZA I had submitted the reports, the objections, the interventions, the notes on what is happening in the center of Thessaloniki in relation to the phenomena of violence and lawlessness, either with representations to the then Chief of Police, Mr. Andrikopoulos, or with requests to the Minister of Public Order at the time, Mrs. Gerovasili. But here, we have an escalation. Instead of things going for the better, as they had improved their interventions in the center of Thessaloniki, where they focused, for example, on university campus across from the old Philosophy, on Melenikos Street, where the inhabitants draw videos in the Bharakia process to make daily in sunlight the trafficking of drugs or in the heart of Thessaloniki, in the square Aristotelous, in front of the statue of Venizelos and next to the Virgin Mary of the Halkidians being slaughtered and clashes between citizens. These are unprecedented issues, unprecedented phenomena, which are bringing me before you to point to the relevant Ministry of Public Order and Civil Protection in order to speed up and safeguard the security of citizens. I live only in titles from the police briefing: "Narcotics, Smuggling, Trading in the centre of the city", "More complaints and official protests by residents", "The phenomenon of smuggling and traffic has now taken the form of Lernaia Hydra in the heart of Thessaloniki, Kapani, at the beginning and at the end", "Insecurity and agony. SOS emit rescuers, but even the Police Union through the local media, such as Radio-Thessaloniki, drug trafficking, smuggling cigarettes, bloody clashes, robberies, daily phenomenon. I'm filing into the Minutes. These images of Mitsotakis government that would restore normality had never been seen by Thessalonians, residents, visitors, students and professionals of the center of Thessaloniki. They are these pictures that have never seen any massacres in the middle of the day - at 2 noon - in front of "Germanos" and in front of the position of the Panagia of the Chalkeons, as well as here. The SYRIZA MEP says it for reasons of opposition, why would he want to lie to the government, which promised that he would safeguard the right of fairness and order? Yesterday, 14 November, Minister, Mr. Economou, were we not in touch with the Thessaloniki Chamber of Crafts? Official announcement - Crying of the Chamber of Commerce of Thessaloniki to Mr Chrysochoidis: "Start to the bloody clashes in the center of Thessaloniki". The Thessaloniki Chamber of Crafts of Crafts, which does not belong to the majority of SYRIZA, tells them. Minister, the situation has reached the unprecedented. At the same time, the Police Union is talking about a number of deficiencies by the police. They don't have bulletproof vests, they don't have vehicles, they don't have uniforms, they don't have helmets, they don't have shoes. Several police have come down from the machines and there is a risk that this number will increase rapidly if they are not found immediately, as the Association of Police Thessaloniki says. Do I have here from Thess News, from "Radio-Thessaloniki" photos? "Avato due to complexes and drug trafficking is Aristotle Square." Rescue and policemen speak in "Radio-Thessalonica", on the other radios of the city and on the city's sites: "Trade trafficking in drugs and cigarette smuggling, bloody clashes and robbery is the daily phenomenon in the most central part of the city in Aristotelous, even at noon." I put this in the Minutes too. Mr. Economou, I will return to my dentistry in my second intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u37	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u38	We expect concrete measures, such as the measures taken in the first half of 2019, when without impression and fanatics and these illegal invasions at university campus had the fruits to deal with reports and complaints about drug trafficking, even within the university campus and without such reactions. Why don't you hurry and you're not actually taking steps?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u39	The State Secretary for Citizen Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer you. Mr. Economou, before I give you the floor, I have the honour to announce to the House that they are attending our meeting from the top Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-three students and apprentices and twelve educational attendants from the Single Professional High School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say in advance that we have to say 'no' to forensics because this is not the case. On the contrary, we are creating other kinds of topics and raising extreme behaviours and tensions around these topics. And you know very well that, in particular, the drugs issue, but also another set of issues to which you have referred, is being dealt with, but we also need a wider range of measures and not just the police. This is a wider social problem which is plagued both by our society and by other countries' societies. This is a modern scourge. That is why I think we need a more flexible approach, I would say. The Headquarters of the Hellenic Police, taking into account the existing regional crime statistics, has prepared an anti-crime policy programme, which is a central point of reference for all police services. We're building on what we found. Some designs had indeed been made. We are therefore studying weaknesses, supplementing and implementing new actions. The police have then prepared specific operational plans to record the police actions that contribute decisively to addressing crime problems. These plans have been drawn up and updated on the basis of the crime map of each region in order to adapt to the particular conditions of crime recorded. At the same time, a significant number of police officers serving at the Office for Official Protection, as well as at the service, moved to strengthen the two-cycle police teams, with a view to the further apparent presence of the police. In addition to the Hellenic Police Headquarters, more specific instructions and directions have been given to intensify targeted police actions in selected areas where increased crime problems are present, starting from 7 October 2019. The aim of these actions is to carry out checks on infringements, such as thefts, burglaries, drug trafficking, illicit weapons and arms use, noise pollution, illegal outdoor trade, traffic offences and a number of other such violations, aiming at preventing and suppressing crime, as well as further instability in the sense of civil security. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In particular, policing in the area of Thessaloniki is carried out through the systematic implementation of a grid of targeted actions, such as the development of pedestrian and on-board patrols, the execution of exiles, the setting up of specific audit workshops focusing on the prevention, prevention and treatment of all forms of violation. In this context, specific operational groups to prevent and suppress crime, dual police, immediate action, security services are involved. At the same time as strengthening the police presence with the special elections in September, the Directorate-General for Police of Thessaloniki was strengthened with a hundred police officers. Finally, for the police of the historic and commercial center of Thessaloniki, targeted actions are implemented and implemented through pedestrian and on-board patrols to substantially upgrade the level of the apparent police presence and ensure direct response to cases of police interest. At the same time, in the city of Thessaloniki, the Department of Pezzon Patrols has been established and operated, with responsibility for conducting pedestrian patrols, especially at the city's shopping center. Its staff are organised in individual operational action groups, while in its composition they include bicycle patrols. But we are constantly monitoring the results, adapting the design and very soon the results will be much more visible in the center of Thessaloniki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u41	Mr Triantafylides, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry and I hope you will keep them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u42	Minister, the citizens are listening to us and understand. I do not question your intention, but these phrases, such as the 'pigmentation of targeted actions' and 'field patrols', citizens, students, visitors, professionals have heard them repeatedly. You will find us helpers in what you say about 'criminality'. But, on the other hand, it is clear that there must be a new priority. Instead of wasting police forces and sending them to make insults to the movies and to recall in mind the law 4000 on tentism, instead of wasting the police forces to incur clubs and humiliate young children, boys and girls, hanging them to kneeling behind their heads, instead of incurring the universities and the MMs to hit boys and girls away from ASE, instead of checking the stores on whether music will stop at 10.00 in the evening, they will have to stop this cretching, this erection of the police's work for communication reasons, and they must be directed to safeguard the legitimate goods of citizens, their lives, their everyday lives. It is very critical and very important that the work of the Police, to waste it dangerously, exclusively for communication reasons and for reasons of communication diversion, is very important. It is now admitted by members of the New Democracy, such as the propathidis Vice-President of Parliament, Nikitas Kaklamanis, that you messed up with the refugee. To balance the impressions, do not play dangerous games to satisfy your far right audience. The citizens, the voice of Thessaloniki, the center of Thessaloniki, the professionals, the residents, as I said before, are filming from their balconies for the first time, show you what the drug dealers are, they tell you that drug trafficking is taking place there, in Melenikos, while I told you about the Virgin of the Halkees, in front of the stand where people are involved and stabbed. This thing has never been seen by the Thessalonians. You promised the world of Thessaloniki back to normality. Is that the normality of the New Democracy? To be slaughtered yesterday, yesterday, and vice versa in the heart of the city in front of the statue of Venizelos? You are making, within introductory terms, 'friendly' efforts on the front of lawlessness and abstraction, rather than responding to the demand for fairness and order. That is why good words and good intentions are demanding and demanding priority. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Leave what you are doing for communication and emphasise the real treatment of violence and crime, in order to restore the sense of fairness and well-being of citizens, residents and professionals. Especially in the center of Thessaloniki, Mr. Minister, people have had the metro curtains for 15 years, crime is now coming. People are being slaughtered in front of the windows of their shops, their properties. So you understand what image is being shaped. Push and give substantial results and of course always with absolute guarantee of individual human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much Mr Triantafylides. Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor for three minutes to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u44	Your Honor, I will not attend your opposition exaggeration. You realise very well that the dismantling of terrorist organisations and the dismantling of university spaces by criminal groups and their delivery to the university community are not communication practices, but are essential responses to the dismantling of terrorism and a number of other violations such as drug trafficking, trafficking, etc., which are developed within university institutions. However, I think it is better that the days require it and, in the light of the polytechnic event, we should honour this atmosphere, we should all contribute to the festive climate and give some of the tones, especially in these matters. In order to combat the drugs phenomenon, the Greek Police implement the Special Operational Programme against Drugs 2018-2020, which aims, on the one hand, to identify, monitor and carry out checks on sites considered to be suspected of drug trafficking - around school units, areas for implementing rehab programmes, abandoned buildings - and, on the other, to develop initiatives and contacts and to implement actions with competent bodies, municipalities, OKANA, youth organisations, schools, parents' associations, to highlight the problem, to inform citizens and, in particular, to protect young people. On the question of combating the illicit trafficking of excise goods and, in particular, tobacco products, action is being taken to combat this abuse, in cooperation with the competent authorities and bodies. I shall refer to specific results. In the last five months, a total of nineteen thousand ninety-three preventive checks have been carried out, a thousand-three-hundred-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-those-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three, two-three-three-three-three-three-three-three, five-three-three-three-three, two-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-years, three-years, three-years, three-years, three-th-th-th-th-th-three, three-three-th-th-three-th-three-th-three-three-three-th-three-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-three-th-th-th-year- Also, it is very important that the results of service activities to deal with the phenomenon of tobacco trafficking in the Aristotle square area, as more than three hundred forty people have been arrested and have been seized about seventy thousand packets of smuggled cigarettes. At the same time, the prosecution services were seized in more than a thousand eight hundred cases, involving a thousand six hundred people, with corresponding major seizures. They shall be referred to justice and the procedure laid down shall be followed. On the part of at least our ministry and police, we can't do more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u45	You mean acquittal and return to the same point. You mean you do your job, but justice does not do its job. Is that what you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u46	I think that there should be much wider discussion on the issue of drugs and, above all, on the treatment of users, which, in any case, are unhappy people. We cannot, however, allow them to be dealt with only in a police, preventive and repressive action.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u47	Co-operate with the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u48	We are working with the Ministry of Health, but it is a matter that we have, we have and, unfortunately, in the coming years, we will have it before us. We fully understand the spirit of your question and your concerns. We are compiling in this direction and that is why we are drawing up and developing comprehensive plans for police action, as I have presented you in detail before, in order to strengthen the sense of security for the citizens of Thessaloniki, as well as for the rest of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. You're both right, because I live in Thessaloniki, but we can't talk about it here in a few minutes. We're moving on to the next question. The second question under number 205/12-11-2019 will be discussed in the context of a topical and urgent debate on the second question of the Piraeus II Piraeus by Mera25 Mr. Fotinis Bakadamas to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Epiesodes outside the Athens University of Economics". Mrs. Bakadamma, you have two minutes at your disposal for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in this Chamber a few days ago, I closed the second language of my question, which you once again answered, saying that I hope we do not see our democratic citizens turning into a kingdom of totalitarianism. And honestly, believe me, I'd like you to disprove me. Unfortunately, however, the fact that we are here today to discuss the shame images that we saw played last Monday in ASEAN shows that I was right. We have once again seen images which, if anything, are embarrassing for a country of the 21st century. We saw unarmed students trapped in their school without being allowed to leave, not even the injured could leave, to be transferred to the hospital, while, as I am about to develop in my dentistry, there was no possibility of crossing, Mr. Economou, nor in an EKAV hospital, who tried to approach the school. In addition to the preconclamation of the students, we had a very expensive use of chemicals and tear gas, which made the atmosphere deaf for the two hundred unarmed children in the yard of the Athens University of Economics. In a modern country, Minister, we are not allowed to see children, trapped like mice, chewed by chemicals and beaten by a clob. Unfortunately, however, the doctrine of "law and order" tends to become your normality. Furthermore, they confirm, among other things, statements by the members of the Government, such as the Minister for Rural Development, who stated that "the wood is an element of forcedness", while the Government representative Mr. Petsas saw the incident as a "part of the implementation of the law and the three-pilot security for universities, neighbourhoods and citizens' property". But a country, a state that does not care for its future, its young people, has no future. That is why all these images of authoritarianism and abuse of power that we have seen hopefully and hopefully are the last. In view of the above, the two questions I would like to ask you are: First, why was the students being held hostage at the courtyard of ASEAN? Were they charged with a crime? No arrests. We think not. What steps is the Ministry going to take to give them responsibility - I imagine you will answer me with a EDD that will never end up on a disciplinary board - the police officers who did not allow the injured to go to the hospital? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, too. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer you. Mr. Economou, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u52	On Monday 11-11-2019 at 12:30, a group of about two hundred, gathered in Victoria Square, reached the main entrance of the Athens University of Economics on Patisia Street. At the point, there was a platoon of the Order Rehabilitation Subdirection and it was found that the individuals had opened the central entrance of the institution, violating the lock and several of them had entered the yard. The platoon by using only the protective shields managed to block the entrance of about a hundred and twenty people, who removed from the adjacent roadway of Patisias to the current to Omonia. Some eighty people, who had managed to enter the yard site of the foundation, sealed the gate by placing behind it six large artichokes, while thirty of them, covered with the characteristics of their face and holding wood and cranes, strongly attacked the platoon, in order not to enter the yard. The platoon, in response to the attack and the avoidance of injuries, carried out the occasional use of tear gas at the border of the university space and entered the yard. At first they returned towards the interior gate of the building, but continued the attacks on stones and cadrons against the platoon, which managed to curb the people near the main entrance of the above institution. Afterwards, individuals shouted slogans against the Greek state, the Greek Police and exalted the policemen of the platoon, who remained in the yard without taking any further action. Then, at 12: 40, he went to the point and a second platoon, which entered and remained inside the university central gateway. At 12: 50' two divisions of the Order Rehabilitation Subdirection developed outside the institution, monitoring the individuals who had gathered on the Patisian Road and declared solidarity with the insiders. Some of them attacked several objects against the platoons, which, by using exclusively the shields, removed some seventy people from the Omonia. At 14: 40', by command of the Business Centre of the Directorate-General for Police at Attica, the testimonies went out of the institution, while the people went out and moved on the Patisian Street and, while arriving at the National Technical University, they left in various directions. During the incident, two police officers were injured. They were transferred to the General Military Hospital of Athens to provide first aid. No incident is recorded about preventing an ambulance in approaching the University of Economics and getting injured.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u53	Mrs Bakadima has the floor for her dentistry. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, your political leader, Mr Chryssohoidis, six days ago, told the informal meeting of your party's parliamentary group that some people want a new Gregory. But does the Ministry want this to happen? Because sincerely, we have not grieved victims on Monday at the OSCE. Also, one can easily understand - and I will develop it shortly - that the police operation was well organised and executed. The children, yes, gathered in Viktoria Square and wanted to go to their school, just to carry out the scheduled one from almost all student groups and already published general assembly. And here it is worth noting that the announcement had been made before the decision on Lockout was taken by the Senate. Decision condemned by the Senate of the Metsovian Polytechnics itself. The children only wanted to remove the lockout and be able to make their assembly, Minister. On arrival outside the school, however, police forces were seen approaching them, coming from both directions of the AACC. Powers, which, according to testimony, already existed there and waited for them. Then, when the kids entered the school yard, they were framed there, as the building was already closed with rolls and hit with clubs and shields. You said before they only used shields. It's not lightly an unbreakable shield of MATs. You know that better than I do. They made inaccurate use, of course, of chemical, tear gas, physics and perforation grenades, and even in a closed space, for the children had no escape from somewhere and were blind, as they had no picture of where they put them. And as a result, we had the injury of several students. They were kids, all unarmed. Trust me. Minister, tear gas images fall into the courtyard of a school with students not having where to go - other children had a panic attack, one head opened, another had a fracture in the hand, other asthma seizures - are situations that could easily lead to victims - we hope you understand - and frankly refer to another, particularly dark period of our country's history. I testify for the Practical some photos, in which you can see the children surrender, tear gas digging into their school, in the yard and some others. I'll testify to them in the Minutes. I'm not eating any more time now. I am also tabling the communication on the general meeting, which had already been released. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Fotini Bakadima, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Yet, and when he went to a rescue worker, to give the first aid to the injured, and he suggested the transfer of the wounded to the hospital, there are complaints that not only was initially not allowed to reach the EKA's hospital in the space, but even when this special embargo was lifted, police checks were carried out on incoming ambulances. I will submit to the Practical Publications from the editors' Newspaper, which invokes information from EAW rescuers. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Fotini Bakadima, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Minister, the messages we received at that time from young children who were crying and feared they wouldn't come home were the least creepy. Because, believe me, it is - and I wish no one would pass it on from us - extremely unpleasant to receive messages from children you know and ask for help, because they will die. The question remains is why, while the children were asking to leave, they were not left by the policemen who were there who preferred EL. to break their nerves - forgive me for the expression - holding them there hostages? The kids surrendered and asked to leave. Mrs. Sakorafa has gone, our Vice President there. He's not here right now, but he can make sure the kids were asking to leave and he wasn't allowed. Minister, we are two days before the Polytechnic anniversary. Yesterday we had a peaceful student rally, precisely because they weren't present police forces. I hope and hope that the course on Sunday afternoon will take place in the same quiet climate, as I hope at some point the Ministry of Civil Protection will actually begin to protect the citizen, not only to suppress and attack and, indeed, to combat crime and not to see perpetrators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Economou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u56	I want to believe that, as far as the Economic University is concerned, what we knew and saw so far is a place of drug trafficking and interference, and your desire is that you do not want to continue to be that. It does not honor anyone and we must all and each one of us in terms of guaranteeing genuinely the university asylum and the smooth functioning of higher education institutions. However, I would like to stress three facts relating to the subject you mentioned earlier. First, the students were not hostages. Secondly, the only traumatized by the incidents are the two policemen who were transferred to the ‘401 General Military Hospital’. And, thirdly, the use of tear gas was made within the limits of university facilities. Everything else is overreacting. And at a critical time and in view of the festive events on the anniversary of November 17th, messages should not be sent through Parliament that can be misinterpreted and taken as a cover for extremism and illegal activities. We must honour the festive nature of the anniversary without extremes and incidents and, if possible, without force. And as far as the Ministry of Citizen Protection and the Greek Police are concerned, the whole design is aimed at this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, too. And we're going to the next question, the fifth with number 196/11-11-2019, a topical question for the second cycle of the MP of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminis, to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Electrician Operation. at the Economic University of Athens and generally issues of lawlessness at the AEIs." Here, Mr. Kamine, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we know that in the first weeks of new governance university asylum has been abolished. And since then, there has been a situation in the universities of the country - especially now at the University of Economics, which has been mentioned - that puts us in some thoughts. Because we fear that - as is very often the case in our country - we will go from one end to another and in my dentistry I will say in particular what I am afraid of. What happened here? A university building, known as the 'Vancouver Apartman occupation', was evacuated on 2 November. On Thursday, November 7th, the Senate issued a statement on various people unknown who enter and leave uncontrollably at the establishment of the institution and use the space as a forum for clashes with police forces, etc. Throughout the weekend the police entered the AASOE and found three sites under occupation, to which they found various findings, which are used in demonstrations of violence. This intervention took place when the university was closed. In an announcement by EL.AS. He told us he was avoiding interfering when the university operates. So, given that the smooth functioning of academic life means that universities must be constantly open, that incidents and illegitimate actions - as envisaged - will probably continue, I would like to ask you, Minister, have been prepared by the Ministry for an integrated operational plan that prevents indoor repetition which has been attributed to the competent university authorities and which will now ensure the uninterrupted functioning of the institutions? Is there a timetable for its implementation? Will you work with the university authorities and the university community for its training? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u59	So do we. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, will answer. Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the provisions of Article 3 of Law 4485/2017, as replaced by Article 64 of Law 4623/2019, the state defines the institutional framework for protecting the activities of higher education institutions and is linked to scientific research and teaching. At the same time, it clearly disconnects these criminal acts and violations, which are contrary to constitutionally regulated academic freedom, with elements of criminal decency and effectively restrict the scope for freedom of expression and movement of ideas. In the case of criminal offences and infringements from now on, all the procedures provided for by the competent authorities will be respected, thus assimilating the area of higher education institutions to the public area. These acts and behaviours include, for example, the trafficking of drugs, the construction, circulation and use of flammable materials and explosives, the blockage, violence on courses, building and student disasters, the exercise of psychological and physical violence, the hostage and prevalence of students, teachers and administrative personnel. The Hellenic Police, as the main state body to ensure the fairness, security of citizens and the protection of public and private property throughout Greece, is called upon to implement and guarantee the new regulations. In order to meet the legitimate and substantially the requirements for the implementation of academic freedoms, it is called upon and obliged to adapt its performance and operational practice accordingly. It is obvious that the main purpose of the legislator in the recent regulation of Law 4623/2019 is to protect effectively the academic freedom, the free expression and movement of ideas, the safety of students, members of the university community and workers. It is also the protection of university property against criminal offences. So academic freedom and freedom of expression and the movement of ideas are completely protected in all areas of higher education institutions against anyone trying to destroy or restrict them. In the event of the execution or attempted deeds being committed by the Greek Police, the Greek Police are obliged to manifest the actions planned, including the intervention of the police action. In any case, the Hellenic Police shall weight its action and actions so that it does not exceed what is necessary to manage the incident and shall, as far as possible, limit the disruption of the organized scientific activity and the functioning of the university institution. In this direction, special classified operational plans are drawn up by the services of the Hellenic Police for each of the establishments of higher education institutions operating in the areas of their territorial competence, in order to implement them in an intercurrent case and, without doubt, we are in close contact and cooperation with the academic community, with the Senate and with the prefectures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u61	Mr. Kamine, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. You know, Minister, that, having been the Mayor of Athens from January 2011 to April 2019, I have a point of view on the issues of lawlessness in Athens and that I had reached the point of requesting the resignation of a former Minister of Civil Protection in 2017. The fact is that Athens has suffered. He has suffered from the violence that prevails, has suffered from the situation that reigns in Exarchia, he has suffered from the occupations. State the necessary measure. Yes, the principle of proportionality. Why should we be careful? Let us not go from total tolerance to these phenomena that existed over the previous government to the other end. There's this danger. I am not saying that this is something that is designed and premeditated by the Ministry's leadership. Not at all. I fear, however, that many of the policemen who felt under the former regime, under the former government, are suppressing that they could not carry out their duty, are now overreacting and are now reaching the other end. We have some examples: The terrible zeal in the Joker case, we have the example of the Ghazi amusement center, which people were forced to kneel down and put their hands in the head, we have stories in Exarches that fuel the tension, with responsibility - I believe - of the police, so I have to smash the alarm. Especially on the issue of asylum, certainly at least on the question of the restoration of order at universities, of regularity, the police should also contribute, in some cases, mainly the police, but not just the police. The issue of asylum will ultimately be defended by the actors in the university community, and this in an institutional way. The Diamantopoulou Act in 2011 provided for the organization of universities and their rules of operation - and I am talking about a law that had been voted for by a very strong majority in Parliament - that the responsibility for protecting the spaces, infrastructures and persons in academic institutions would be assumed by them. That is the solution, Minister. Another government minister is currently in place. That's where we have to move, because we can't live with the Greek universities, whether they're at the mercy of the hamburgers or they're always there and they're out there so that EL.AS can work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Kamine. Mr. Economou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u64	I want to make something clear on the occasion of your question, Mr. Kamin. The political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Police consider as their task, following recent asylum legislation, to ensure the functioning of public universities. In essence, firstly, to shield the university asylum of ideas and academic freedom, secondly, to guarantee the safety of teachers and students and, thirdly, to protect the property of public, university and private, teachers and students. From the Police Headquarters very few weeks ago very specific orders and instructions have been issued to deal with groups - let me say - low terrorism, drug traffickers and those involved in every form of smuggling, which traditionally find asylum in university spaces. Of course, the problems that exist for decades with the use of university asylum by illegitimate groups will not be solved within twenty-four hours, but I will have to assure Parliament on behalf of the Ministry's leadership, on the occasion of your question, on the determination, persuasion and perseverance shown by the authorities and the competent police services, in order to free the Greek universities from marginal or extremist groups that threaten their everyday life and always in close cooperation with the academic community. Beyond this and given that, from today on, the memory events for students will evolve on the basis of the law and the polytechnics in the face of the dictatorship, I would like to make an appeal to everyone: The messages from Parliament today are united for the Greek people and confidence in the democracy and the functioning of the police force. The aim is all together to honour the anti-digit struggle and to keep the message of the days alive without leaving space to extremists and regionals to blur this atmosphere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u65	And I thank both of you for keeping time. We now go to the next question, the fifth under number 204/12-11-2019, the first-round question, by MP B1' North Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis, to the Minister for Health, on the subject: 'Critical risk of the ESS'. Mr Gregoriadis, you have two whole minutes at your disposal for the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, since I thank you for the fact that, as always, you have the kindness to be here to answer our question myself, I would like to say that, as you know best from me, because I know well that you are a doctor, the National Health System has lost thousands of his doctors, who have not been supplemented, on the basis, as you know, of the Memorandum Instructions followed by all governments since 2009. As if the departure of so many thousands of doctors - let me point out here - is not even followed by the elementary principle of one withdrawal, which is obvious that there should be a subordinated NHS - as if it were not enough, therefore, the numerical deficiency of the National Health System is coming, which, I am sure, because of your capacity as doctors, you will understand it very well: young doctors who manage or decide, with heroism, to join the NHS, when they get to the clinics, they find little or no more experienced than these doctors. As a surgeon you know better than I do that no matter what you learn at university, no matter what you learn in clinics, surgical art is learnt by the most experienced doctor who follows his own eyes, a crisis of how he treats her. So this is a very serious problem too. The Memorandum of Understandings have led to almost complete integration of personnel for the National Health System. Those doctors who work, however, are exhausted, as you know, on 24-hour shifts, i.e. shifts, on-calls, which are far beyond human boundaries. It is imperative, Minister, that you proceed directly to thousands, in our view, of recruitment, because, if we take into account and the forthcoming retirements of too many doctors, in a few months' time our national health system will no longer exist. I am accelerating a few problems and a few examples. The Serres Hospital, for example, provides for a hundred fifty doctors for its operation and there are only a hundred. They will soon leave 10 more pensions and 10 others who are subsidiary. That means, Minister, that 46.6% of the medical staff provided by the Serres Hospital Agency will not be present shortly. Now, right now, it's the 34% that doesn't exist. According to the current statement, the current commander of the Serres Hospital, the biggest hospital problem at the moment is the lack of medical staff, which, he says, will become "dramatic after the departure and twenty others with the weakness of the intervals". For example, - and this is really terrible - there is only one subsidiary doctor who serves four and a half thousand patients in the chemistry unit. It's like he wants our state to murder these people. For the needs of Serres Hospital an impressive number of deficiencies have been reported. I'll report to you a few: lack of filters at the Artificial Nebula Unit, lack of surgery and health material. Other such deficiencies are essentially observed in all the hospitals of the predominant state. In the hospitals of Epirus, there are compulsory shifts for an on-call, due to the lack of medical staff in neighbouring hospitals. So there are examples that a doctor from the Philadelphia or from Ioannina should travel a hundred thirty kilometers - laughing, but I should also cry - to make a 24 - hour newspaper in Lefkada. In Dumotich, the Dumotich Hospital, a pathologist and a pediatrician have been unpaid for the last four months. At Xanthi Hospital, the risk of interruption of clinical activities is large, namely Urology, Ophthalmology, Anaesthesiological and Orthopaedic Clinics, with an average of 1/3 of the required staff. According to the feds, the OENGE and the EIAP - I mean the Greek, the Panathinaean and the Piraeus federation of doctors - at least six and a half thousand doctors are missing, Minister, for hospitals to function properly. So the six hundred assistants, who are going to be fired at the end of November, when their contract ends, are only 1/10, just the ones needed to substantiate the system. It goes without saying that they will absolutely have to be permanent. They cover standing, constant and vital needs for the National Health System. They have supported it at its most difficult times and have proved their worth under adverse conditions of extreme underfunding. To conclude, then, I ask you: What does your Ministry intend to do about the enormous shortages of hospitals? Will the political hostage of subsidiary doctors continue or become permanent? And, secondly, when and how will all the empty organic positions of the ERC be called, which is an essential condition for the functioning and safeguarding of citizens' health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u67	The Minister of Health, Mr. Vasilias Kikilias, will answer. Here, Mr. Kikilia, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u70	Mr Colleague, thank you very much for the question. As always, you are noble and accurate to what you say. It is something that I appreciate, since I have said that I feel and feel as a political leadership of the Ministry of Health that, especially in such a multi-faceted space, it does not fit a barren confrontation at a personal level, which eventually leads nowhere. We have seen this in recent years and indeed it has not led anywhere. Reality is specific. There is no doubt - you are absolutely right - that the National Health System is ill. It is a National Health System whose architecture has not been completed, which has obviously served and serves the needs of the citizens. I have repeatedly said that doctors, nurses, paramedics, administrative staff have been the heroes in the crisis, in these ten years of restrictive budgetary policies, trying to keep public health up for free. I would like to tell you that the bitter truth and what I have asked in writing and received from the hospital governors appointed by the previous political leadership for these last four and a half years is bitter. It is impressive that, for the first time, the problem of subscribing is recorded, the problem that exists and which is all inconsistent with the communication we have had in recent years on health recruitment and you are entitled to it. Not even one by one is the rate of retirement and recruitment of new permanent doctors. They have left the system in recent years on SYRIZA over nine thousand executives, and have been hired less than nine thousand. It's eight thousand. So there is a reasonable concern and the question is correct. I would just like to clarify a few things so that we can reach agreement. What is the possibility, what the organizational objective is. I do not like and we do not like to go to individual patches of any hole there is, instead of building an integrated plan to address the problem. I can assure you that, following the receipt of the Ministry of Health, we had to meet all these emergencies in the summer in both the barren areas, the island regions and hospitals in the region and the centre. We therefore have to keep our hospitals up and deal with them as a whole. However, we move on to the recruitment of a thousand other staff of a variety of specialists, the majority of whom are nursing staff and traumatists - very important to our hospitals - and nine hundred and thirty-three medical staff from various specialists. This is the permanent ones for the year that comes to us, with regular procedures, trying to get out any bureaucracy. What I mean: Making an electronic platform for the submission of supporting documents for all these people, so that this piece of bureaucracy goes away. I would remind you that the average recruitment time for the Greek public and the ESS of such a strain is at least eighteen months. We are trying to shorten this and reach a much more acceptable level, perhaps all four to five months. We'll see these together along the way. Colleague, I would like to inform you that everything that has to do with the assistants, who I understand are doing very important work within our hospitals and we need them in our hospitals, as far as it is concerned with 30 November 2019, no one is fired. They end up in the conventions of people who had signed up for their recruitment in hospitals and are not six hundred, but they are two hundred and eighty-nine. For these two hundred and eighty-nine people, then, I have already instructed the government of health regions to record and match them with financial resources from the regular budgets so that our hospitals can have them for another year, that is to say, the one-year contract, and that is to ensure the smooth functioning of our clinics. More things I'll say in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I really understand the bad position you are in, without any personal responsibility. When one takes over, as you have just described, a Ministry in this situation, a National Health System in this situation, it is a titular effort to do. However, you also understand from the figures you have mentioned that, when the federations say that it is a direct need to recruit six and a half thousand people, and we are talking about a three hundred and thirty, the rate is so small that it is reasonable to wonder what percentage of needs these recruitments will be able to meet. I trust you, to say that they are about three hundred and not six hundred, as their feds have informed us, the ancillary contractors. I would like you to clarify exactly where the money is going to come from. You said something. I say this because I have heard - and I want you to tell me if that is the case - that you intend to find the money from a ESDP programme. Is that there? And if that's there, I've heard, too, that it's 2 million this amount. If the sum is really 2 million - and you know it better than I do - it will last, if it is six hundred, two months, because their payroll is 1 million a month, and if it is three hundred, it will last four months. So it's gonna be a patch and not a solution. From there on, what else can anyone say? You're a doctor and I really feel - and I'm not turning you back on the good words you said about me - that it's a pain in this case. I really feel like you want to exalt the whole system. I urge you with all my heart to do as much as you can. These people are heroes, the whole staff. And these people cannot continue to work on these conditions. And you know, Minister, by closing down, the problem is not in your political will, nor your personal will, nor your government. The problem is always in the event of drowning a memorial hug. In fact, it is forbidden to do anything that the right word would dictate to us, common sense. That's what we've been saying for so long, that without the break, we're leading to a long, slow death as a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too. Mr. Kikilis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u74	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll use a minute because I abused time in my prototype. Mr Colleague, what it has to do with the assistants on 30 November 2019 is the two hundred eighty-nine, as I told you. There are the codes of appropriations in the ordinary budget. It was from the N.S.S.A. That's how they're staying in our hospitals. I would also like to remind you that there was a strong rumour that the four thousand OAED people who ended their contracts would not renew them and thus lose our hospitals. I told you I don't like communication about communication. On the contrary, I prefer and prefer the substance. We have left these rumours to the point where we have been able to renew the contracts of these four thousand people and permanent staff, which, in my opinion, should normally have been the first priority for our hospitals. We are moving on to these recruitments that I have told you. I think that if we manage the eighteen months that is the average for the recruitment of this staff to bring them down to five months, this will immediately be a very big difference in how we can deal with the needs of the ERC hospitals. I would like to say that the previous political leadership has made efforts in this direction, and I admit it. But the figures are falsifying the result, and we are all judged by the result. Why? Because he has announced many times intakes in hospitals in various locations and different specialties and this problem has been created: on the barren line, on our islands - we are a country with a difficult relief but also a blessing, because it is a beautiful country, with thousands of islands - the health system everywhere has to reach the last atrocious island. But that's not always easy. But now design is being done with the Ministry of Island Policy to find a plan and to give an incentive so that these doctors whose positions are called there to find an attractive place and those who are given and do not take the place and resign and leave after eighteen months, as I said to you, because this is what we have repeatedly seen in Transmigration for many years, it is a first step towards the region. As far as the centre is concerned and generally, I repeat the tools we have are at three levels: Permanent Intakes: We do it and we move it quickly, faster than the past. Auxiliary doctors: I answered your question about the two hundred eighty-nine, we are not going to leave them that way. And for the OAED: the programmes are also progressing, and we have proved that not because we have said so, but because we have done so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u75	And I thank both of you. The first question under number 214/12-11-2019 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Manousou Voloudakis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Assessment of SMPs and ANFAs for financing public investment", is not discussed after the Minister's consultation with the Member. We continue with the fourth with number 206/12-11-2019 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Privatization plans of public hospitals". Mr. Kikilis will answer again. Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like to thank you for being here in person. It is always positive when that happens. It's a big deal. It is about something that has not been done so far in Greece, the privatisation of public hospitals. It comes from statements we found in a press release of PAME, statements by the new commander of the 6th Health Region, which includes the Ionian, Western Greece and Epirus. The latter refers to the development of medical tourism at the Ioannina Hospital and for this purpose will commit as many hospital beds as are needed to make use of them as private insurance companies. This follows from statements by both the government and the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association about the conversion of hospitals from public law legal persons to private law. The question from us is clear: Are you moving on to partial or full privatisation of hospitals? Do you share these statements by the medical association for their conversion to legal persons under private law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u77	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for the question, Mr Colleague. I called the Chief of Staff, but I also have the answer here in writing, which the Director of the 6th Health Region never made such a statement, especially for the Hospital of Ioannina. This is a reference to medical tourism, in the context of dialogue and exchange of views with the workers' union at the University General Hospital of Ioannina, and obviously I and you have fallen victim to misinformation, I think. The man never said that, and I can't charge it to him. Now what it has to do with the privatisation plans of public hospitals, etc. I think that, Mr Colleague, it counts and is very important what the political leadership says. I respect the Panhellenic Medical Association. The Panhellenic Medical Association is institutionalized, has an operating framework, its views are heard in the public forums. Everyone can respect all that he hears about health, if they are documented, if they have reson which. And you have opinions and I have colleagues here - some of them are very experienced doctors - have opinions, but I cannot comment on what the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association says. I can hear it. I would like to say to you - take note - that I have repeatedly said here in the House, but also whenever I have been given the opportunity to speak publicly, and on television, that the Minister for Health is a guardian and fully supports public and free health. I'll repeat it one more time. It's a social asset. In the years of the crisis, the needs which have not been met with the corresponding appropriations have been overcrowded. We want a health system better, more efficient, more qualitative, a public health system and its guardian is the Minister for Health. I would also like to make it clear, and that is what I want to make clear, that it is another public health system and another state health system. Let me give an example: in a socialist country the hospital 'Karolinska'. It is a hospital in Sweden, a hospital standard, which provides excellent health services, free health services to the citizens of that country. It's a public hospital, not a state hospital. What does that mean? It means that it can, as our hospitals already do and the EEAS does, get services from the private sector and enable our doctors, the ESS, our nurses, paramedics, administrative staff to serve the world better quality, faster, possibly with latest technology machinery, etc. This is the separation between the state and the public, i.e. if the state costs more, if it troubles the world - and it is obvious among all of us that there is an issue with the hospitals of the RIS - and as is already the case in our hospitals or as is already the case with the EEA - and our hospitals and the EEA - which buys private health services, more modern machinery, more precise, better laboratory, etc. This is another issue that you mentioned. What do we want? We want the average Greek family, we want the citizen - I repeat that the middle class has been dispersed in the crisis and the world has been overcrowded, our fellow citizens who go to the hospitals of the ESS - can be served qualitatively, quickly, to respect him, in decent spaces, with the best possible technology. That's a matter. Other public health, other state health. I gave you an example of a socialist country with a top hospital, which follows exactly these practices, with excellent results. I repeat that the previous government of SYRIZA, with the ministers of SYRIZA, did just that, purchased services from the private sector, hospitals and EEAS. So no such thing as that that you brought is not there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u79	Thank you. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, Minister, the Chamber was able to tell us what the commander said, but I see that you do not have to, because you have said so too. You say there is no need to have public hospitals, since we have the public, the insurance funds to pay for citizens' access to privatised hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u83	Please, because just twenty-five seconds ago we have spoken, and I think there should be a minimum of honesty and understanding, at least, I would ask you to take care of me or not to falsify what I am saying. I repeat that I am the guardian of the public and free character of the ERC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u84	For public infrastructure? You see them as well as being privatized. That's what you described. You said you wanted access, but you don't mind being...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Kikilia, not dialogue. You have a dentistry and you will be able to answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u86	Mr Colleague, please very much. I don't find anything funny about this. Health is something very serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u87	I don't think I find anything funny either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u88	...responding by smiling...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u89	Please, Minister, not dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u90	...something no one can play for. I repeat once again: If you do not hear what I say to you, that I am the guardian of the public, the free character of the ESS and what that includes, then you obviously want to falsify my words or we cannot agree. I would ask you very much to withdraw and withdraw from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u91	Minister, I have nothing to withdraw because it is in the Minutes what you have said. You have clearly spoken that you are interested in being public access, but your infrastructure is not interested in whom it is. So it comes from your words. And you must clarify what you are saying and have not explained it now in the intervention you have made. You need to clarify what you mean when you say that you don't mind the infrastructure being private. Are you interested in the family having access to it? We would like you to tell us, however, and the commander's statements, but to add a few more details to you. In the state-of-the-art fourth building of the Hospital of Ioannina, which has been opened without an additional budget, without any staff, the hotel and technology infrastructure is currently being purchased and ISO certification is being carried out which is necessary for medical tourism, and travel agents want it, but there is no provision for the budget, so that it can function normally as a public infrastructure, as a public hospital. So, if you would like, as you say, your words should not be misled, say clearly: are you against privatising the infrastructures of public hospitals? Say it clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you can answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, at least when you come here to ask a question you must be informed. There is no ISO in medical tourism. At least those who give you the information to keep you informed so you won't be exposed. That's the first thing. Secondly, medical tourism, since you want to talk about it, could be a very important part of the contribution to the GDP of the country, which will relieve the average Greek family if it could - and this is our purpose - be organised and there is an institutional framework to make such terms favourable to our country, a beautiful country that weather helps, obviously. I would like to give one example: many North Europeans would like to receive these services. We must develop this to such an extent that the resources are available. And with regard to what my colleague said before, recruit doctors, nurses, paramedical staff: The resources are not infinite and are not coming...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u94	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u95	Please, ladies and gentlemen, not dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u96	It's okay. I'll wait for you to hear from me again. No matter. I have no problem with you interrupting me. They don't come in a magical way from a magical place. It is the Greek taxpayer's money, and this money should be respected and we should know where these funds go. The Greek citizens are taxed and we have our money for the ESS. They are not infinitely the plaques, neither the resources nor nothing. They come in a certain way. If you have any other plan, where the money doesn't come from Greek taxpayers and they come otherwise, and so it's infinite, it's not finite, and so we can do what we want, you'd be happy to testify to it for me. I repeat once again, why do you know something? I have a feeling - because you are a new colleague, you must take more care - that today you have come here to promote me and not to ask me a question well-meaningly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u97	The infrastructures you didn't explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u98	I told you, Mr. Colleague, that I was the guardian of the public character of the ESS and health. I also told you that for many years now, and in our hospitals and in the EEA, and with this governance, and with the previous one, private health services have been purchased before. I also told you that it is obvious that, if I can, for example, have a CT scanner, a last-tech magnetic scanner that costs EOPY its use, but also the Greek taxpayer, much less than he costs now and which can provide much more good services and that service I can buy it from the private sector and so the doctor of the HSY, the manager of the HSY, the administrator, the nurse can do his work very well, I will obviously do so, as to some extent as well as to the hospitals and the EEA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u99	For public infrastructure...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u100	I repeat, if now - you say this - you - continue to follow all that I have said to you that your question with the specific target, as we have all understood and developed, has the same goal and not well-meaningly accept my answer, is your right and everyone is judged here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u101	For the public infrastructure, answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u102	Mr. Arsenis, please. We're moving on to the last question. The first question will be discussed under number 732/17-9-2019 by MP Magnesia of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Meikopoulou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Have the current and immediate needs of “Achilopoulos” Volos Hospital”. Mr Micopulus, you have the floor for two minutes, although you are entitled to three, because you have been in the process since the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u103	I also hope, Mr President, and thank you very much. Minister, "Achilopoulos" Volos Hospital is the second largest hospital in the 5th Health Region. As a secondary hospital, Minister, it serves a permanent population of two hundred thousand inhabitants, which should be noted to increase due to the high tourist movement of Magnesia throughout the year. It is therefore also responsible for meeting the needs of hospital care and the inhabitants of the mountainous volume of Pelion and the inhabitants of the islands of Northern Sporades. Prior to the national elections, but also during the last four years, the previous leadership of the Ministry of Health - in a serious attempt to ensure the proper functioning of the hospital, to ensure that the new structures set up and also to deal directly with critical weaknesses of the hospital - designed and planned the following actions: Firstly, an increase in the regular budget of EUR 600,000 was decided by the Central Council of Health Regions 96-57-2019. For example, the final budget for 2018 was EUR 17.510,000 and the original 2019 budget was EUR 16.350,000. Again by decision of KESY 95/10-5-2019 the increase of the hospital's body from four hundred beds to six hundred sixty beds was approved to integrate the HYD, the Magnetic Tomograph and the creation of the absolutely necessary for the Oncology Clinical Area. With the 10796/21-5-2016 notice, sixteen permanent doctors of various specialties had been scheduled to meet the emergency needs of the hospital. It was also planned to relaunch the six barren positions of the Autonomous Emergency Department. By notice 2K/2019, "Achilopoulos" expects 12 people, absolutely necessary. Under the document No 1737-27-2019 of the hospital to the 5th Health Region, the Ministry had been notified of the need to recruit fifty nurses, to meet urgent needs and to ensure the proper functioning of the new structures set up. Minister, four months after the national elections, almost the majority of the interventions I have just mentioned, launched by the previous leadership of the Ministry of Health, have been stagnated, both with regard to logistical upgrading and staffing in human resources. And, Minister, as if this were not enough, suddenly a few days ago, it was announced to the local society of Volos that the administration of the 5th Health Region revised, for unknown reasons, its budget for nursing establishments in the region and EUR 3,000,000 from its funds, which had been set aside for the health hospitals in the 5th Health Area, were moved to the 3rd and 4th Health Region. The Volos Hospital, on the basis of data generated from the 2019 budget and without exceeding the amount, requested until the end of the year 1,1 million euro for its overall operation, with the exception, of course, of the pharmaceutical expenditure. To date, Minister, some EUR 150,000 has been allocated for operational needs and services from the 5th Health Region. Of course, it arises from the data I have analysed and from the history that I have described, a critical question: How do you intend to intervene in the serious problems of subsistence and subsistence faced by the "Achilles" Volos Hospital, due to the freezing of all the actions that had precedented the previous leadership of the Ministry of Health and the sudden decision of the 5th Health Region to drastically reduce the hospital's budget?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u104	The Minister of Health, Mr. Vasilias Kikilias, will answer. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I recognize your sincere interest in the hospital. I should like to begin with a general point. We've been the head of the Department of Health for the last four months. The country's previous governance, with two ministers coming from the hearts of health, was four and a half years. So the first question, which is being asked, is this: if there were any political leadership - I recognise good faith there was - the willingness to complete all this, why did it not go forward for four and a half years? Immediately - and this is the truth - he wants to implement the organization of the hospital and hospitals in general. We are also talking about subsidiary staff. When ancillary staff are increased, the costs of hospitals are also increased. He's hitting this hospital instead of a staffer. In addition, all this is done with the necessary funding. I've heard wishful words. I have not seen an organisation anywhere, that is to say, the previous political leadership has provided the necessary funding for this hospital or for the other hospitals. So at least when it comes to the National Health System and for a reasonable period of time, until we can have this mess, which we received, we put it in one class - I do not say that as a political leader, but in writing the hospital managers who you put it - it would be a good thing if there were to be a contraction and an attention when questions related to such issues, which have been raised for four and a half years and have been inherited from us. However - I repeat for the second time - your sincere interest in "Achilopoulos" Hospital, I recognize it. That's why I'm answering. The original budget was 35.6 million and is implemented normally. We have already increased the budget to 37.8 million, as you ask me to answer your question. And all the needs of the “Achilopoulos” Hospital will be met without any problem at all. There is no doubt about that. Although further funding is required, so support for Volos Hospital will be implemented, as I have said several times, for all the ERC hospitals. There's no way we can leave the ERC hospitals without support. You also spoke of the needs of permanent staff. I should like to inform you that according to the institutional framework, which concerns both the Crisis Councils and the choice of doctors, within the first quarter of 2020, the procedures required to recruit these institutions specialities will be completed: three pathologists, one cardiologist, two pediatricians, a nephelogue, a surgeon, an orthopedic, a urologist, two anesthetics, a gynecologist. Not to abuse your time, gentlemen. I'm going to go on in my denture after I hear my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Micopulus, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I did not come here to claim that all problems have been solved over the last four years. But I would like to tell you that a very serious effort has been made to make to make a programming that would, on the one hand, address the critical and objective weaknesses of the "Achilopoulos" Hospital and, on the other hand, had been put forward - and, in my opinion, Mr Minister - the conditions of the "Achilopoulos" Hospital had been established to be in a phase of dynamic development. And here I would like to note this, Minister: it can be "Achilopoulos" a secondary hospital. With the new structures that have been set up, however, it may well, if staffed and adequately financed, respond to the role and functioning of a higher education hospital. Structures such as the Battalion Bank, the special ultrasound, orthopaedic and surgical equipment, were approved, where it was vitally important, as it will meet the needs of two hundred and fifty patients a year, the X-ray digital band, the magnetic tombographer. Minister, it was the only hospital in the area of Thessaly that had no magnetic tomograph. And the whole world, whether they were addressing hospitals in the region or looking for private structures. All these new structures set up are the most practical enhancement and upgrading of the quality of the health services provided. In order for them to function, however, Minister, they need, on the one hand, money and, on the other hand, funding. In addition, I can tell you that an increase in the hospital body has been decided by four hundred beds in four hundred six hundred beds in order to incorporate the haemodynamic section, the magnetic tombographer and the creation of the absolutely essential for the oncological clinic area. These initiatives, however, are initiatives, Minister, which cannot proceed without the necessary joint ministerial decision of the Ministers for Health and Finance, the non-signature of which is a brake on the development of the hospital. Also, Minister, there is an urgent need to implement the recruitments planned, not for subjective reasons but for objective reasons due to the retirement of staff this year, but also to meet the current operational needs of the new structures. As long as scheduled recruitment is delayed, then, there is a problem, Minister, of daily inauguration in many clinics. Indicatively, you said - the following: In the pathological clinics, we have a critical lack of permanent pathologists. It takes at least three pathologists. The anaesthetic department is minus three anaesthetics. We've got a reduction in the operating room and a tightening of the waiting list for the surgery. In urology, we have a blank on-call program. He needs at least one permanent. The artificial kidney unit also needs a permanent doctor. He needs a permanent doctor in the otronolaryngology department. In the ophthalmology, there's an empty program. He needs at least one permanent. In laboratories from 2020 there will be a gap with retirement. It takes at least two permanent doctors, Minister. The qualified doctors are kind of extinct. We have a huge shortage of nursing personnel, especially on the frontline sections, such as emergency departments and pathological clinics. Minister, if you'd like, listen to me. The central role of the hospital's staffing and development is to reintroduce the six barren positions of the emergency department. To date, despite the workload, some two hundred fifty people daily are employed by four doctors. If you move on to this process you are facing in an indirect and yet immediate way the shortcomings that exist in other clinics. You won't have to get doctors down from pathologicals to look at patients in TLS. Go ahead with this process. As far as anesthesiologist is concerned, there is a problem. Where they should serve nine, they serve five, due to long -term sick leave, resignations and departures of the remaining four anestheticists. By the end of the year there is yet another withdrawal of anesthetics due to retirement. The lack of anesthesiologist, then, Minister, also has a direct impact on the proper functioning of regular and emergency surgery, as many surgery due to the downsizing is delayed and not carried out. Auxiliary doctors, subsidiary staff are an important problem for proper operation. They serve 20 subsidiary doctors and eighteen other ancillary staff. The contracts, with regard to the five of the twenty auxiliary doctors, end in the next few days, which will significantly disrupt the normal functioning of "Achilopoulos", as many departments of the hospital will automatically be faced with a functional problem. And all this, I repeat, comes at a time when the 5th Health Region, for unexplained reasons - we are not yet convinced, Minister, that I am in good faith, but I am not convinced of the answer - has decided to revise the budget. Therefore, this decision is not only that it will stop the development and upgrading phase of the hospital, but there is also a serious risk of disrupting the actual daily life of the operation of the “Akilopoulos” Hospital. Minister, you should be aware of one thing: no matter who exercises rule, and what has it, the "Akilopoulos" Hospital and its staff have always stood next to the need of the Magnesiaians, even in the most difficult economic circumstances, and their staff - the administrative, medical, paramedical, nursing - deserves congratulations. I call on you, Minister - and I have listened very well to you so far - to proceed quickly to the process of implementing the previous programme. And finally, Minister, with the commander of the 5th Health Region, make a budget consultation. We arrive at the end of 2019 and have only been given EUR 180,000 from the 1.1 million agreed. That's not theoretical, that's not theoretical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u108	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to close and proceed with the next procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, the way you speak is clear that you really care about the hospital - I respect that - so you care about your place and you're informed. Only the way in which you have actually blew up the previous political leadership in the air, because all you mentioned is things that someone is obviously going through in four and a half years and certainly not going through in four months. Nevertheless, I should like to cover them and try to continue and answer. As far as permanent staff is concerned, I've already answered you. As far as subsidiary staff is concerned, and the five supplementary doctors' posts, which you referred to, and those which expire on 30 November, will be arranged so that these people can remain on the basis of the ordinary budget. The magnet is very interested in you - and that's right. So I say to you that this process of governance has actually begun, and we will continue with it, and we will finish it, by finding and how to hire these people who can and must operate the machine. And generally for the hospital, I want to tell you this. The reality that exists in the ESS is a reality of subsidization. Our staff is ageing. Sadly, despite the announcements of many and wealthy, you have seen that the evidence of your governors proves otherwise. I told you. More than nine thousand health professionals were retired for eight thousand, who went to make up for their positions. So this repeated communication of thousands of recruits has actually not existed. On the other hand, instead of recruiting permanent staff, it has dropped the burden on subsidiary staff. This burdens hospital budgets and does not allow other things to be done in the hospital. I would ask you, however, very much - the door of the Ministry of Health is open - to come and discuss with the State Secretary. No budget issue exists, as I have already revealed. We increased the budget and we will give everything we need by the end of the year, in a very difficult year when the hospital finances have gone to the bad end. But because there is - and I see it - an honest mood and care for Achilopoulos, I would ask you very much for what is happening and what is happening, we are at your disposal. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. It will then refer to the anniversary of November 17 on the revolt of the Polytechnic. There will be a speech - position of the President of Parliament. Previously, however, we will have a short break.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Before entering the debate of the bill, submitted to the House by the Deputy Minister of Sports Mr.Austrias, a petition will be mediated by the House on the anniversary of November 17 on the revolt of the Polytechnic. After a brief position of my own, Members of Parliament will be given the floor from the parliamentary groups and we will be able to conclude with a minute's silence. Previously, I would like to inform you that already this morning, a few hours ago, a delegation from the Greek Parliament submitted a wreath to the Polytechnic in honour of the anti-distant youth uprising in November 1973. The delegation represented by Parliament consisted of MPs Yiannis Kallianos from New Democracy, Costas Zachariadis from SYRIZA, Fotini Bakadama from Mera 25 and Spyros Publicsakis, representing the Association of Workers of the Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, we are honouring a historic day today. History always compose two elements that time separates them, a series of events and the perfume of the time. The first, the facts, can be restored even after centuries. The second, no, he's gone, he's flying along with the moment. Even those who felt it, as much as anyone feels the present, lose their sense of it when the wind of time takes it. I shall not, therefore, be re-examined in my brief speech, but I dare try to re-establish the perfume of a time, because in 1973, ladies and gentlemen, it was a time when the anti-dictatorial aspirations, which led to the earthquake of the Polytechnic, which was the crown of the anti-diplomatic action of our people with a focus and leading participation in youth, were escalating. This leading anti-digital activity of November 17 at the Polytechnic University is obviously not undermined and is not tarnished by even aberrations that sometimes occur, unnecessarily and unacceptablely deflected on the day of the anniversary celebration, but also by the unscrupulous, obscene intimacy of the name of "17 November" by a spiral of murder, which has spread death, misery, but not the undermining of democracy. The escalation of anti-digit accessions in 1973 is very interesting. We had the legal uprising in February. We had in April the important political statements of exile Constantine Karamanlis published in "VRADI" and "THESALONIKI" and in which statements, among other things, Constantine Karamanlis prophetically said: "I am sure that the new generation, prepared better than our own and having, as Aeschylos says, for teachers our own calamities, is capable of correctly conceiving the problem of the country and fighting for the advancement of our troubled people. The promotion of new powers in the field of politics will make the return to the past unnecessary. The Europeanisation of Greece - in the good sense - could constitute..." complements "the new Great Idea of the nation. The rulers, if they were aware of their responsibilities, and only for this reason, would put an end to the present anomaly, which consists of the abolition of freedom, which demolishes the Greeks against the charge of retarded political peoples, when they aspire and can be Europeans." Top national interests require the restoration of democratic normality. In May 1973 we had the Navy Movement, where the Armed Forces challenged their devotion to the dictatorial regime and their desire for a return to democratic normality. In November, when the anti-Declaratory action had a preamble to the memorial to George Papandreou, on 4 November, and on 17 November, the peaking of this action, the peaking of youth's contribution to the belief that the dictatorship not only has any catastrophe, but had already entered a phase of disintegration. The first politician to make statements on November 17th was the last democratic Prime Minister, arrested by the dictatorship, the late Panagiotis Canelopoulos. It writes Panagiotis Kanellepoulou - and so I strive with courage to enter the fragrance of that era for the uprising of the Polytechnics - "The actions of the students were marked under a regime of violence. Whatever the intentions of my old colleague in Parliament, who believed in October 1973 that he actually formed a political government, the regime had not ceased to have a dictator and main institutions and supports the same teams that over six years had been the persecution teams of the people, mobs and torturers." A regime of violence gives rise to opposition violence in the case of the polytechnic youth. I do not have to repeat what I said in the 'Third-four' judgment. They were able to use explosives, which were in the polytechnics itself, but they did not. It was also found that, as they were informed, some provocative or uncontrollable elements were building molotov bombs and rushing to their use. The polytechnic youths did not use material force. What weapons were insurrected with? They have had enough, with supra-party brotherhood, to promote the tyranny naked and defenseless their breasts and they have managed to carry out something far more than a movement from an occasional uprising. "They have carried out..." says Panagiotis Kanellepoulou, the only one that after some advances, after the courageous general test of the law-maker, occurred during the longer seven-year dictatorship." And it closes: "I will now stand on two points which show more specific that the Polytechnic revolution prevailed even when the "state" and the violence, which even Prometheus, settled on the rock of Caucasus without defeating it. When the radio station of the "free-sieged" youths echoed the words "here is a Polytechnic, here Polytechnic", the ears of the myriad Greeks and the ear of the story were firmly attached to that voice, which has since become a title of capital of the law of freedom. And when the young people and young people of the Polytechnic, confronting the tanks and other military forces, called the soldiers "brothers", voted by their cry the most fundamental rule of the law of a nation, the rule establishing the unity of the people and of the army, a sacred rule that the dictatorship of April 21st had trampled. It was not at that time that the screaming of young people was heard, but it was not fair for those who drowned that cry. The cry of "free besieged" was the voice of the law", concludes Panagiotis Kanelleopoulos, who was placed immediately after these statements in house arrest once again. So the facts are well known. The perfume of the time is hard to feel, but it's worth trying. And what we, who enjoy the freedom and democracy that some have given their lives and health to have it today, must understand that the meaning of the Polytechnic is the constant concern and constant struggle for freedom and advancement. The three words 'bread', 'childhood', 'freedom' are the meaning of the Polytechnic, a sense of resistance to the dictatorship. Resistance which, in a democracy, turns into a pretext competition, a competition of compositions, a competition of benefit to the country. Because it is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that while resistance and constitutionality are imposed in a dictatorship, only the opposition can stand and no resistance is allowed to democracy. And the opposition allowed and imposed on a democracy is to make the necessary compositions through legitimate contrasts so that the meaning of the Polytechnics for freedom and progress, which we must achieve, can be achieved as solid and as fast as possible and as sustainable as possible. This is our contribution to that top fight, our response and our tribute. Mr Spilios Levanos is now called for in the order of the parties and based on the nomination made by the Parliamentary Groups by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polytechnic uprising historically symbolises the fight against the totalitarianism of the dictatorship and for freedom. The anniversary we are honoring today is a day of memory of the struggle and sacrifice of young students and students who have fallen struggling for democracy. They fell, but defeated, became automatically the symbol of the fight against the authoritarianism of the dictatorship. "The Polytechnic as a symbol of memory...", as first and foremost against violence said Panagiotis Kanellepoulou - and you will allow me to repeat in the name of Panagiotis Kanellepoulou after what the President has read to us - "... reminds us of the demands of the young people of the time for democracy, for academic freedom and for social justice." But it reminds us of something else: that as the virtue of democracy is not always given, it is a daily debt for all of us not only its defence, but also its right and unselfish service. So today's memory manifestation is an opportunity to reflect and sincerely read the historical messages. But what is the spirit of the Polytechnic of November 2019 today, forty - six years later? I'm sure it's not the display of chainsaws, molotov, kalashnikov and hood as a match supplies. It is certainly not violence, hatred, and the new division from wherever they come. The message of the Polytechnic School is the obligation of all our country's leaders to provide true and sustainable solutions to the modern hot problems of our youth, to respond to how we will modernise our public education, so that every student and student can highlight their best, discover their skills and find the way to prosperity and happiness, to respond to philosophicalism, syndicate and old-fashioned attitude, highlighting our society's basic value of merit. So, our young people will again gain optimism and achieve the "brain gain", now stopping the leaving the best of us abroad, will create jobs that will give our fellow citizens hope and dignity, which will refill our Greece with light and smile. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen of all Parliament's wings, if the radio broadcaster of the "free-sieved" youth were to re-enact to all of us, it would send a message of unity, a message of new national self-confidence, a message of confidence to a modern-day Greece that aims high, claiming, without fear of changing our national standards and productive model, a message of necessity to transform the state into a functional ally of citizens and entrepreneurship, a state that respects and serves the citizen. Above all, he would send a message for a reborn Greece based on a modern and creative innovative school without needing to be paradedoxical, open, competitive and extroverted university, leaving behind ideologies and fears, in a society that operates unitedly, which shields its institutions, which believes in virtue and value of democracy, which provides social justice and equal opportunities for all. If we achieve these national-modern goals, we will, I believe, best value - and I believe - for the fight for self-sacrificing of the children of the Polytechnic School in 1973. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u113	It is called in Stepma on behalf of the Radical Left Coalition, MP Nikolaos Friends.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polytechnic insurrection was not lightning. There was a climax of the struggle of our people and especially of youth against the American-moved dictatorship that raped democracy and collapsed under the burden of national treason in Cyprus. The uprising, in a persuasive sense, of those who want to rewrite history and divide our people, is a message of unity, so necessary today. And in this section, which was first expressed after the civil war with a coexistence and common political attitude by representatives of different political groups, however, there was a decisive resistance to thousands of citizens, anonymised, the left wrestlers, who have been chained since the first day of the junta, exiled, exileded in the mountains, dungeons and torture. It's this generation, the anonymous soldiers of our people who gave a message to the next generation for resistance. The uprising was, at the same time, a very important event. It forms part of the cycle of struggles against imperialist interventions, in favour of democratisation and prosperity. At the same time, it is part of the Greek chronology of the neo-leaving presence of the time, with the culmination of the movement against the war in Vietnam and May 1968, brought youth to the fore as a special force of social change, highlighting the value of the autonomy of the movements, as the claim for social liberation and emancipation, according to which the staff are political. This demand inspired a historic cultural explosion. Since 1973, the world and Greece have changed dramatically. Cold War and bipolarism collapsed, but the world has not become more fair and international society has not become equal. On the contrary, neoliberal globalisation has prompted exploitation, instability and wars. The democratic transformation in our country has been a uterus of struggles for democratic and social conquests. In this long period, however, there have been denials and frustrations. And we have reached the post-Macedonia, where we are confronted with the neoliberal entrepreneur, as well as the dismantling of the political system, we have been immersed in a crisis that is not only economic but also moral. And finally, we also became part of the melancholic landscape of post-democracy, which undermines the cohesion of modern societies. It is common to say that the message of November is timely. Others are involved in a one-tonit repetition. For us and for the thousands of children, who today celebrate in their schools the celebration of youth and democracy, it is a source of critical reflection for the future of society. In conditions of war, violence and refugee in our wider region, the anti-imperialist, peaceful message of the Polytechnic remains dramatically opportune, against nationalism and racism. It shows us the way for peaceful cooperation, stability and co-development in the region. In conditions of triple crisis, economic, refugee and environmental conditions, the message of the Polytechnic is a message of solidarity for changing our lives, politics and society. The history of the three-stage "Psalm - Education - Freedom" includes new status. The economic crisis that has thrown a large part of our society and particularly brought young people ahead of the unemployment range, the class attack on labour and the parturban, but also new technological developments that push into productive restructuring, show the timeliness of the 'bread' struggle. The "education", faced with new challenges, positive and negative, remains constant for the development of the personality of young people and society, not as a trade but as a social right, for a school of quality and equality, democracy and participation, recognized the social role of teachers. 'Freedom'. The demand for freedom everywhere, for democratic rights and for rights relating to personal life, for equality of women and recognition of the right to sexuality, enrich the public space and give another dimension to social liberation. Ladies and gentlemen, those who have rushed to speak about the end of history are disgusted. Societies and this time youth are coming back to the fore. They are claiming - in a contradictory way and inconsistencies, but claim - once again the realism of the impossible. The mobilisations of young people against climate change that have spread across the planet with a flagrant slogan that "the problem is not only the climate, but also the system", is a new deposit of hope for the survival of the planet. The major mobilisations on all continents at this time against social inequalities and austerity are due to breaches in neoconservative domination. The solidarity of citizens with the refugees of war is a practical response to the racism and the extreme right which is once again being recaptured in Europe. In our country there are hopeful neo-liberal sketching of resistance against the attempted squeeze of the right to education and the raw return of state repression. Let the prisoners know that many times in history the response of young people to autocratic relapse has been a factor of unforeseen overthrows and democratic developments. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polytechnic is alive! "Let freedom be pleasen and bold." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, ten members and three escorts from the Holy Friday Day Center. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It is called in Stepma, on behalf of the Change Movement, the Deputy of State Mr. George Kaminas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Polytechnics School was the beginning of the end of the dictatorship that in its policy of isolation came and added total isolation from society. Society lived the drama of those days, was written with the students, and it is now clear that it completely detested the regime at that time. Political isolation had begun a long time ago, since the regime was established, from the Left and the Centre, of course, gradually by the forces of the EPE and by the palace itself, as proved in December 1967. The isolation of dictatorship at international level, and especially at European level, is completed by the expulsion of the country by the Council of Europe. That's why he's resorting the regime to the Marquesine experiment. The regime puts forward an image of democratisation, with a constitution which submits a distorted referendum and transitional provisions that essentially perpetuate the regime, with the dominant one for the stay of George Papadopoulos in the office of President of the Republic for the next seven years. This 'Constitution' was also the model later - and it was applied there - for the Evren Constitution in Turkey. In any case, against this experiment the students rise and we have this rebellion, which has been suffocated by the forces of the regime and after a while Ioannides has been imposed, with the coup now at the expense of Papadopoulos. The dictatorship reaches its most detestable form, is now completely isolated. To win popular support attempts the coup d'état in Cyprus, with the known results. Mr President, you referred to the three-dimensional 'Psame - Freedom'. Indeed, that was the dominant request. I see this request nowadays condensed in the public university. What do I mean by that? As to the 'bread', of course, what this request means was that the students asked for a rise in the standard of living of the Greek people. This can be said to have been achieved in the years of postpopulation, basically. Greece has changed. Even after the economic crisis, it has nothing to do with the late Greece of the early 1970s. The "education and freedom" where it is most summed up, of course, is within the public university and is summarised in the request of academic freedom, which the Constitution expressly affirms. What role does the bread have here? It means that the public university is primarily the vehicle that favours the social development of people. That's how it worked through the years of This is how many surpassed the poverty dam, and I believe that it has contributed to a very large extent to our prolongation. But there can be no public university worthy of its mission, when it is dominated by violence or even by the threat of violence, there is no freedom factor there. So I think we should keep this as a message today of the Polytechnics anniversary, to realise that we want a public university, which operates exactly as the editorial legislator has seen. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u117	The representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Syntrakis, is now next.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, today we honor the uproar of the Polytechnic. The JRC pays tribute to all those who fought against the military dictatorship, were tested in the horrors of torture, exile, imprisonment, persecution and court-martials, in the youth and news of the Anti-FIFG. Forty-six years later, the slogans of "Psalm - Freedom", "Outside the United States", "outside NATO", remain topical and live, against anti-grassroots policy leading to poverty and impoverishment, against politics that downgrades and trades education, against the doctrine of "law and order", which imposes cemetery silence, eliminates university asylum, restricts the right to strike, trade union rights and demonstrations, cultivates a climate of terrorism of mass folk action, with mechanisms that no one has to do with organised popular and neo-liberal movement, against our country's deepest involvement in the imperialistic designs of Americans, turning it into a target of attacks on conditions of greater exacerbation of competition, against the mutual defence agreement with our country, while it is a hostile power in our country, and is a weapon of war. Responsibilities are equally burdened by the governments of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, who are arousing American imperialism, turning our country into hindsights of the geostrategic interests of the United States and NATO. In fact, one point came to speak of common values with imperialists and the other to give his mark with the recent creepy statement by the Minister of Defence in front of the United States Secretary of State: "Our men were beaten next to the American soldiers in the wars we were engaged in. We will repeat it again in the future, if necessary. General, behold your army!' The coup d'état on April 21, 1967, to remember, took place in the name of addressing the communist risk. Today and today, anti-communism is the precursor of anti-grassroots measures. The European Parliament's obscure resolution, which equates communism with fascism, targeting the action of the Communists and afflicting the memory of millions of anti-Fascists, who gave their lives against the Nazi monster, aiming mainly at entangled popular militant forces in the coups of compromise with the normality of capitalist exploitation, the acceptance of class peace for the maintenance of civil power. We are proud that the JRC and the JRC have taken the lead, lifting up the flag of the conflict with the military dictatorship. The JRC was worthy of its legacy and history. The reconstruction of his party organizations and the establishment of the KNE in 1968 made a decisive contribution to the anti-dictatorial wrestling. At that time some people said: "The junta is powerful." History disproved them. The people, their struggles and sacrifices have shown that the power is in the organization, the collapsing of youth with the labor movement. No opponent is invincible. The people, when they fight, can bring them up - down. The JRC is and will be in front of such a struggle to reconstruct the working people's movement against monopolies and imperialist associations, against capitalism, with the aim of labour power and socialism. This year's celebration of the Polytechnic insurrection becomes more important. The JRC invites workers, youth, poor populaces to honour the heroic uprising of the Polytechnic with mass and racing participation in the events of the three-day celebration and anti-peripheralism course towards the American Embassy, to demonstrate against the imperialist wars and Greece's involvement, to express solidarity with the victims of capitalist exploitation, refugees and immigrants, whose policy of the European Union and the governments are enclaving them in miserable conditions, to isolate the modern praisers of the junta, those who pour the poison of racism, fascism and anti-communism. Mr President, by closing down, let me have a quote from Tassos Levadi: "The days are hard to live. One moment if you forget about yourself, tomorrow people will be lost in war vortex. So stop for a moment dreaming, millions of human dreams will become ashes from the fires. You don't have time for yourself, if you want to be called a human." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u119	Mr Konstantinos Hetas is called on the party at Stepma on behalf of the Greek Party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. I want to say in just one minute that we are here with great respect and we honor these children, we honor their struggles. We honor these children because they fought for democracy. We must, of course, say that they have fought for a completely different democracy from the one we live in. We honour the struggle they have given for freedom and education, but the struggle they have given for other universities, for open universities, for universities without fear, for universities without terrorism. These children have struggled and these children are honored today. We should, of course, mention that at the time, the junta of Papadopoulos left the junta. Unfortunately another junta, of Ioannides, has come for a few months and this is the period when we lost Cyprus and we should mention that. So we honor the struggles of those children and we honor those who have honored many of them so far. But we do not honor those who fought at the time, but in the course of the course they were lost and, if you like, betrayed their struggles for a chair. The Greeks have learned to fight, and today Greece fights for a real democracy, for the effort it is making to break the financial ties in which it is found and for the fight it fights against globalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u121	After the intervention of my colleague, Mr Hetas, on behalf of the Greek Solution, is called the party representative, Mr. Giorgos Logiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today I can say that I was there that night. I was born in 1957. I was in high school then, and I was all three days out there. Let me say a few things. I have a little emotional burden, because the facts are in my mind every day. We are two days before the anniversary of the Polytechnic insurrection, an anniversary that is still fresh in the memory of all Greeks. Young children then gave their lives, and they became the reason for the totalitarianjun regime finally falling. Young children became rings of a chain that drowned the militia and brought democracy back to our country. Dead, wounded, arrests. The fact that we are here today as elected representatives of our people also owes it to those children. We must also honour their memory not only by commemorating their struggle at that time, but also resist today's Memorial Route and our current bonds. The words of Nikos Xylouris' songs will always be up-to-date. You remember that our "Great Circus" had been played on a dictatorship with the song "Lae don't shake the living" and with the other song "Great Victim, Pink, Eternal". "Here is a Polytechnic, this is a Polytechnic..." - personally, this voice will always be heard in my ears - "...speaks the free-wing Greek station of free-fighting Greeks, free-fighting students." It was shocking at times, those hours. We were outside and inside. My father was a political engineer and he had studied at the Metsovio Polytechnic and we could go in as young people. At night - I'll never forget it - I saw a snake in Patisian. It was the first tear. First came the police and much later the army. The struggle and the dead of the Polytechnic will always live in our hearts and will illuminate our way to "bread, education, freedom", for free movement of ideas, for decent work, for prosperity and pride of our people. Their memory is eternity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u123	You will allow me an exception to accept. I thought there was a very personal reason for Mr Papachristopoulos to talk to us about the anniversary for just two minutes. I'm calling him at the Step. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u124	Mr President, thank you very much. We doctors are a little practical, not a lot of talk. "Patris, religion, family" and "quiet, order and security" were the emotions of that time and I believe that many of you remember them. I want to make a little mention of the faces they marked at the time. Nikiforos Mandilaras, the heroic advocate of the "Figure" was killed in a strange way. She was the first victim. Shortly afterward Mustacle is ruthlessly tormented in the EBA by Hatzizis and Theophilologicalanakos. Dionysius Mavrogenis the good student of Physics, pharmacist and friend, following the legal events that preceded - it was nine months before the Polytechnic - is ruthlessly tortured by Kenich and the Sheriff. I want to make some reports here. It's very important to us. First of all, I would like to apologise for having some friends at that time - I cannot tell them all - we never met because they were thousands of people in the Polytechnics. The report is my report. At that time, Dimitris Papachristos, Andreas Nefeloudis, Makis Balaouras, was the first to take the lead in Commercial, and I am sorry that he is not here today - Stelios Papapas, Nadia Valabanis, as well as others. I would also like to remind you that we went very often to law school to listen to Ioanna Karystianou. In my opinion, a person who symbolized the incredible, unselfish resistance of that time. I still want to remind you that very often during the Polytechnic day we went to the first floor, where Mimis Androullakis was annoying. We were very happy to hear him! I would also like to say that on the day that the Hatzidos and Hatzidos smash the door and the well-known tsambous of the dictatorship says "Who is your leader?" - we are all scared back on the ground floor - and Kostas Laliotis, who could have been murdered at that time only for example. I still want to remind myself - and I may be omissioning someone - when Nikos Xylyraris came and apart from "Ritika" and "When will he be doing barbecue," he said a joke song of Gatsos and Xararchakos, a shocking song that made us and we tears. He was "The Boy in Sfakia". For those who remember, an epic song, shocking for that time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I won't have time, I'll finish with two facts. Then she was a young medical student. We all had some tasks at the time. Me and Ngo Katsulas, the good friend, dentist, were responsible for guarding the doors. We had information that he was going to break the tank and we went to replace a young lady of medicine, Helen Anastasios, who kept the main door of the Polytechnic. He kicked us out badly! Finally, I want to refer to a fact, how we were working at that time. In a demonstration that we started with Dimitris Kotoula and Fotis Karasopoulos and other children from the museum to the Academy, one of us threw a stone and broke a glass. We isolated him and told him never to come with us again. We raised money - because it was a dictatorship and we were afraid - and two days later we went to the owner with the money we collected and gave him the broken glass. And it's a sign of writing what it meant to be a student match at the time. Friends and friends, I'm finishing up, and I'm saying, some people then underestimated the student movement. Let no one else make the same mistake today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, the report was completed on the anniversary of 17 November on the revolt of the Polytechnic. I would ask everyone at this point to keep a minute of silence in memory of the fighters and the victims of the revolt of the Polytechnic and Democracy. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Before we begin the debate on legislative work and for a minute, I would like to take note of yesterday's unanimous decisions of the Conference of Presidents following a debate and ask the House to approve the relevant decisions. They are decisions on the long-term rental of cars and on some variations in the air travel of the province parliamentarians. We're starting a new rental car which will be for the next four years by 2024. The main information you need to have is that the rental prices that will apply until 2024 are the prices that were in place and in 2015, four years ago, when the lease that expires now began and we add to the range of cars you can choose to favour the ecological dimension of the thing, cars electrically. The second decision I have said is about the moves of the parliamentarians of the province. As you know, parliamentarians are entitled to either plane tickets or to tolls. We have just made an interim solution that can be eligible for half the month airline for all the other half tolls. Do you approve, ladies and gentlemen, the decisions of the Conference of Presidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u126	The House approved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and a vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Following the Council of Europe Convention signed at Maglingen/Macolin on 18 September 2014 on the manipulation of sports matches, urgent measures to tackle violence in sport, conversion of the Greek Olympic Committee to NLD, ratification of the new statute and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 7 November 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and amendments. I think I have the consent of the House on this initial suggestion. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u128	The House has agreed. I would like to inform you that the SYRIZA rapporteur has lodged an objection of non-constitutionality with the Bureau. I've given an order to get a photo and share. If we do not lose time, because it is Friday, I will give the floor to the two rapporteurs, and at that time I will ask the Parliamentary Representative if she wants to interrupt and discuss it or at any other time she chooses on behalf of her party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I would like to present and table some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u130	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point, the Minister for Sports and Culture, Mr Eleftherios Aeggeakis, presents, for the record, the above mentioned legislative improvements:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 164-166]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to the House, since first of all I thank all the colleagues from all the wings who have worked several hours at the meetings of the Standing Committee on Forums, but also all the representatives of the bodies who, in their own contribution, are even better at improving the draft law, the text, with provisions put forward today for discussion in plenary. Legislative improvements, therefore, to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport entitled ‘Definition of the Council of Europe Convention signed at Maglingen/Macolin on 18 September 2014 on the manipulation of sports matches, urgent measures to tackle violence in sport, conversion of the Greek Olympic Committee to PPP, ratification of this new statute and other provisions’: In the first subparagraph of paragraph 15 of the third paragraph of Article 15, the words ‘and contained in a visual or audio record made by any third party, with any mobile sound or digital image recorder or not’ shall be deleted. In Article 5(3), paragraph 3 is inserted after the words ‘the sea ski and’ the words ‘the chainspeakers and the judges of sports’ are added. In the sixth paragraph of Article 6, the words ‘for compliance’ shall be replaced by ‘in order to comply with a decision of its Governing Board’. in Article 7(2), the words ‘Articles 5, 14 and 24’ shall read ‘Articles 4, 5, 13, 14, 22 and 24’ in the first subparagraph of paragraph 3 of Article 7 after ‘and for the election of representatives’ shall be deleted; The first subparagraph of paragraph 7 of Article 8 shall be replaced by the following: ‘It shall not be possible to elect a chairman of the board of directors of sport federation, who has completed three overall complete or a few terms in that post’. The second subparagraph of paragraph 7 of Article 8 shall be replaced by the following: ‘It shall not be possible to elect a Vice-Chairman, a secretary or a cashier of the sports federation board, whoever has been elected to any of these posts on two occasions in full.’ in the third subparagraph of paragraph 7 of Article 8 after the words ‘on two consecutive terms’, the words ‘as an executive member of a sports federation board’ shall be replaced by ‘on any post referred to in the preceding subparagraph’. in the third subparagraph of paragraph 7 of Article 8 after the words ‘time period’, the words ‘similar to one full term’ shall be replaced by ‘two years’; The fourth subparagraph of paragraph 7 of Article 8 shall be replaced by the following: After the fourth subparagraph of paragraph 7 of Article 8, two additional subparagraphs are added and they are as follows: ‘Except for sporting federations of disabled persons the following shall apply: (a) the above age limit shall be set at the seventy-fourth year; and (b) it may not be elected by the chairman of the board of directors, whoever has completed four overall complete or a few terms in that post. For the application of the age limits of this paragraph, account shall be taken of 31 December of the calendar year in which the seventh or seventh year of age is completed respectively.’ Article 8(2) on retroactiveness shall be deleted. After the first subparagraph of Article 9(12), the second subparagraph of Article 9 shall be added: ‘For the determination of the estimated leasing value of the leasing or leasing property, which shall be the minimum acceptable for the leasing, an estimate report shall be drawn up: (a) by the competent address of the lessor or concessionor, where that objective value does not exceed EUR 100,000; (b) by an independent accredited valuer, where that objective value exceeds EUR 100,000 up to the amount of EUR 1,500,000, and (c) by two independent accredited valuers, where that amount exceeds EUR 1,50,000. After the new second subparagraph of Article 9(12), the third subparagraph of Article 9 shall be added: ‘In the latter case, the selected Coreper shall be the average of the two estimates, which shall then be approved by the relevant address of the lessor or concessionee’. The following subparagraph shall be added after the third subparagraph of Article 9(12), which reads as follows: ‘In the contract to be drawn up between the leaser or concessionaire and the leaser or concessionaire AAE, the special terms and conditions of leasing or concession, the insurances, guarantees and clauses to be imposed on the leaser or concessionaire anonymity for the proper and timely fulfilment of the agreed conditions, the time of completion of the investment project, discount or outflow clauses in the case of non-completion thereof, as well as any other details and in general any necessary condition to ensure the interests of the leaser or the concessionr. In Article 9, the last subparagraph of Article 9, which reads: ‘After the expiry of the contractual or contractual term of rental or concession, the use, administration and management of the property with the components and annexes of all its equipment, as established and in any situation at that time, shall return to the lessee or concessionaire without any compensation by the lessee or concessionee of a sporting public limited liability company’. In the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 of Article 16, the words ‘the day taken’ shall be replaced by ‘the end of the hearing’. However, I should like to say to the House that we are awaiting legislation at a time and on this subject with the signature of the relevant Minister of Finance concerning the workers in the Hellenic Olympic Committee. I imagine within the next hour he'll be here, so he'll be submitted immediately to the Minutes. And, of course, let us also say that amendments have been tabled by colleagues and the amendment tabled by the Change Movement is accepted in the draft ratification which we are discussing in the Council of Europe Convention. Amendment of paragraph 4 of Article 19 of the draft law concerning the Solidarity Fund. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u132	I would ask that it be distributed immediately so that Members can look at it. They didn't retain anything because it's too much. I think that having in front of me the request for unconstitutionalism that perhaps one of the two reasons, if I understood correctly, no longer exists. So, as we have said, we are starting with the two general rapporteurs. Then Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulos will tell me what she wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u134	I saw you, Mrs. Sacorafa. And obviously you want the procedure, even though the procedure has been approved unanimously, but I will give you the floor. It will be electronically registered, so the entries will be opened as soon as Mr. Callianos gets up in Step and the entries will be closed as soon as Mr. Burnus comes down from Step. Mrs Sacorafa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is clear that I have no objections to the procedure as you have put it. However, the Minister has brought in a number of amendments which we did not even have time to record, but to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u136	They'll be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u137	They may be distributed, but we are rapporteurs and we should have had them at least earlier, so that we can understand exactly what it says and where it says them right in the bill. So we want the reasonable time to be able to see our own positions and what exactly the Minister has changed. That is what you are asking, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u138	Mrs Sakorafa, they will be distributed immediately, and even though it seems that your complaint is reasonable, you happen to have your last word today, so you will have a lot of time to read it. The two general rapporteurs are unfavourable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, we would like, on behalf of the parliamentary group, to suspend and now discuss the objection of unconstitutionality in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u140	Look, you know your objection. The other Members who will answer do not know her. That's why you're used to it and you know it. You're typically right. But it is customary to do so, because they need to be informed of what reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u141	So how will the procedure be, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u142	As soon as Mr. Burnus is done, we're entering the objection of unconstitutionality. Unless you want to as soon as Mr. Callian is done. But I think Mr. Burnus will also speak and immediately afterwards. Besides, I said I was going to ask you. Mr. Callianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport - the title has already been said by the President - not to repeat it and to hear it again. You already know him, you have heard him too many times in the committees - which I recommend today in plenary is moving on two lines. The first axis is the first of the six parts of the draft law and concerns the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the manipulation of sports games, a contract signed in September 2014 in Makolen, Switzerland. Let me stress here that this is a Council of Europe Convention, as in all my contributions so far I have pointed out rather than the European Union. Attention, then, to this mistake that has been heard too many times. It is something that the Secretary-General, Mr Mavrotas, noted at his meeting at the fourth meeting of the Committee on Forums, saying that sometimes it was said that it was the European Union. This Convention shall be structured into nine chapters and forty-one articles, as follows: Chapter 1, Articles 1 to 3 entitled ‘Applications, guidelines and definitions’. Here, among other things, it explains what is meant in the contract in terms such as athlete, sports organization, sports bet, illegal sports bet and so on. Chapter 2, Articles 4 to 11 entitled ‘Prevention, cooperation and other measures to combat illegal sports betting’. Chapter 3, Articles 12 to 14, entitled ‘Exchange of information’. Here, Article 13 establishes the national information platform. And at this point I would like to quote Mr Matutes from his position at the fourth session: 'What is the new element brought by the Maglingen/Macolin Convention? The new element and the most important innovation is that it creates the concept of the national platform. The national platform for dealing with the manipulation of sports games is a new institution created to have a systematic framework for cooperation between the sport movement, with the prosecution authorities, the government and the betting ecosystem, i.e. the Committee on Gambling Control and Supervision, as well as the betting companies. This has to do, not only with repression, but also with prevention. Its main function, i.e. the exchange of information on the national platform, awareness, education and documentation of infringements and prosecution of infringements’. Chapter 4, Articles 15 to 18, entitled 'Governmental criminal law and cooperation'. Chapter 5, Articles 19 to 21, entitled ‘Legality, criminal proceedings and enforcement measures’. Chapter 6, Articles 22 to 25, entitled ‘Rules and measures’. Chapter 7, Articles 26 to 28, entitled ‘International cooperation in judicial and other matters’. Chapter 8, Articles 9 to 31, entitled ‘Control of the Convention’. Finally, Chapter 9, Articles 32 to 41, entitled ‘Final provisions’. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also stressed in my speech at the first meeting of the committee, but I would like to repeat today in plenary that this great country that has the chance and the honour of being born can happen today, at this time of its course, to be small in scope and population. In ninety-three UN Member States are the ninety-eighth country to an extent and eighty-fourth in 2018 to a population. But our voice in the fields of history and culture sounds very loud and clear. This is the place where democracy was born. Here's the place where sport was born. The values of noble talk and of euphoria are an offering of our civilization to mankind. This is Ancient Olympia. The lyrics of the great Kostis Palamas in the Olympic Anthem say athletes around the world. This is where the burning torch begins sending a message of peace to her pass. Sport, from ancient times, as a factor of culture, contains in his DNA noble speech, euphoria, unselfish competition, recognition of the value of another and stands away from dark pursuits, incontental competition, fraudulent methods of stealing victory, intimidation. And sport again, it was born here. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this Convention, from 19 September 2014, signed by almost 40 States by 1 September 2019, which entered into force, should have been ratified earlier by the Greek Government. Greece, as guardian of these high values, deserved - and should be - to be at the forefront of the signatory countries. I am presenting to the minutes on the Council of Europe's website for the Convention, which states that it entered into force on 1 September 2019, thanks to its ratification by Italy, Moldova, Norway, Portugal, Switzerland and Ukraine. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Callianos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We, ladies and gentlemen, could have been in the frontline states and mentioned to us. We should, ladies and gentlemen, respecting our history and our sporting heritage, even be the first to do so. Unfortunately, it took five years to date. Today, therefore, the Greek Government is aware of the serious consequences of manipulation of the games, and has shown particular determination and strong political will for zero tolerance to any unlawful act concerning manipulation of racing and moderation of their results and, therefore, delayed, five years after a New Democracy Government signed in 2014, again bringing the Convention to ratification as one of its first priorities. The second axis consists of the remaining five parts of the draft law, where provisions concerning urgent measures to combat violence in sport and other important provisions are developed. More specifically: The second part, from Article 2 to Article 4, is devoted to the legislative process of active and immediate measures aimed at combating violence. I think that we all agree that all forms of violence in sports events before, during and after they are held are condemned. Ladies and gentlemen, I also noted to the committee that if we had the opportunity to leave this area of democracy for a while and to find ourselves in a school class in the first grade, we would listen to the teacher or teacher telling the young children that it is more important to participate in sport and not necessarily win. And while all these children are taught - and they are right to be taught - in their first class at school outside the yard, everyday life rolls differently. The news of violence, even in infrastructural struggles, even in ages at the beginning of adolescence, for money, set-up games, and all these related, violence in the cliffs blur the prospect of something better. The problems that are created are multiples and with many to be affected by them. It is unacceptable for children or young people to develop military controversies in or out of the rings. It's far away and beyond any pure fan of dating conflicts, assaults on offices and threats. They remove the family, children, young people and imprison every sport in walls of intolerance and blind fanaticism. The provisions of Part Two therefore provide for a series of measures, such as the carrying out of sample checks on ticket holders in and out of establishment, the possibility of collecting, processing and exploiting in criminal material and data recorded by any technical means and other very important ones. In the third part, from 5 to 10, provisions concerning motor sports, sports federations, the terms of the administrative boards of sports, of course, federations are set out. The possibility of using Olympic facilities, which have a large proportion of them, has been seen as abandoning in recent years. Themes of the Katoantzogliou National Stadium of Thessaloniki are regulated. It is worth stressing - and we have said other times - that for Rallie Acropolis, an excellent and historic institution of sixty-seven years old, with a year of beginning in 1951 which in 2014 was included in the European Rallie Championship Caldera last year, it was said that it would not be held for 2019. In the fourth part, from Article 10 to 11, the Government of New Democracy manifests in practice the provision for real and effective exploitation of great athletes and sports, in short, Olympians who honoured the country to translate their knowledge, experiences and love for both the sport they served and the sport as a whole. At the same time, provisions of Law 2725/1999 relating to public limited liability companies are being adapted. The fifth part, from the 13th to the 17th, is devoted to the ratification of the new statute of the Hellenic Olympic Committee. It is worth noting that the statute is set out in Article 13, but consists of twenty-nine articles and in its final version approved by the 20th plenary session of the Hellenic Olympic Committee on 3 October 2019. The sixth part, from Article 18 to 20, relates mainly to culture. These articles concern, in particular, culture and these articles, which have been developed in detail by the Minister at the first meeting, and those of you who were Members who took part in the first meeting of the committee, I think you remember that the Minister had mentioned these articles in detail and I think that all the questions were resolved then. It is therefore fully and clearly a reason for co-legislative. But let me refer once again to them immediately: Article 18 aims to ensure the protection and enhancement of archaeological findings. Article 19 concerns the clearance of the Staff Solidarity Fund. The liquidation of the fund is aimed at resolving the outstanding cases, all that we have said to the committees, paying off the debts, reducing the budgetary costs and all that. This liquidation, as the Minister explained, will be carried out in parallel with the operation of the fund in order to ensure the smooth operation of the kindergarten and not to create any sudden inconvenience to the parents. I say this because many opinions have been heard, that parents may be surprised, that children are surprised, or that children's stations may not work. No, it'll all work until this process is done. Ladies and gentlemen, transparency and procedures are ensured so that there are no shadows anywhere and the principle of equivalence is served in this draft law. Article 20 concerns the staff of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund and, finally, Article 21 concerns the entry into force of the law. Ladies and gentlemen, it has emerged from hearing the bodies, especially our Olympians and many others, the agreement and consensus with the key points of the draft law. The Ministry with this bill shows that there is a clear will, on the one hand, to end the phenomena of corruption, violence and maladministration and, on the other, to build a better future for Greek sport. As the Minister has pointed out, we do not have the illusion that this bill will solve all the problems. But I believe it is right to say that it is equipping our legal weaponry with tools that will make a significant contribution in this direction. We show determination and active policy to solve problems, not political rigidity and passive response to the challenges. Citizens require transparency rules and fair play, at all levels, and that is exactly what comes to serve this bill. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to close my suggestion to recall Mr Augakis' words at the fourth meeting on the process followed, but also some objections to the structure of the draft law: “The work continues - said the Minister -, the proposals put forward are being evaluated, everything has been recorded by my colleagues throughout the hours spent, but also to be followed by Parliament - and we have this job to do - but I want to respond to some who have been heard here in this Chamber as regards the fact that this bill is a fast track. So I say to you that it is not clipboard, it has not come under the urgency procedure and it has elements of a bold, holistic approach and is inspired by a spirit of harmonisation of the Greek reality with the European Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It's an important job. It is moving in the right direction and of course, yes, it has scope for improvement. This is also the objective of meetings, discussions, hearings and all the procedures that we have followed very methodically and carefully throughout this period." These were the words of our Minister, Mr Ausgeakis. I appreciate, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Augias, the Minister of State, who I have just quoted, is not simply taking a step forward but a lot of steps forward in achieving maximum consensus on issues relating to the maximum majority of our fellow citizens. In conclusion, in a few words and many projects, in terms of this draft law, without a duplication but without a waste of time, while respecting our election commitments to the full, we are using our programme as the only criterion for the benefit of our fellow citizens and the country. I therefore call on you, with a sense of responsibility, to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I am recognizing you, although it has been distributed - it has to be written in the Minutes - the objection of unconstitutionalism for Article 8 (amendment of Article 22 of Law No.2725/1999) of the draft law: "Consolidation of the Council of Europe Convention signed at Maglingen/Macolin on 18 September 2014 on the manipulation of sports matches, urgent measures to tackle violence in sport, conversion of the Greek Olympic Committee to NPID, ratification of this new statute and other provisions". In accordance with Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we are presenting an objection of non-constitutionality for Rule 8(1) and (2), as is the text, regardless of whether paragraph 2 of the draft law has been withdrawn. This Article introduces an age limit (paragraph 1) for the election of any board of directors of sports federations and for the second, retroactive effect of the established term of office, as well as of the maximum age limit (paragraph 2). Statement of objection: The establishment of an age limit is unfairly interfering with the right of self-government and the free functioning of sports associations, as defined in Article 12 of the Constitution on the right of association, since there are no grounds of public interest, nor is it a necessary and appropriate instrument for the development of sport in order to justify such enforcement. The introduction of the retroactive effect of the terms of reference and the age limit is contrary to Article 77(2) of the Constitution, which prohibits the introduction of a retroactive law which restricts individual rights, unless it is a special circumstance linked to the protection of the public interest. In the case of the draft law, the anticipated retroactive effect infringes the principles of predictability, legal certainty, as well as the principle of protected trust (consultation of Nikos Alvizatou, 14 November 2019) There are three signatures from the colleagues of Mr Burnos, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and Mrs Gerovasilis. The speaker has the floor. Mr Burnu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. You have already read the contents of the objection of anti-constitutionalism under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure on two paragraphs of Rule 8. We have pointed out throughout the procedure in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media to the Minister, on the basis of opinions that have come to light, that he will find before the issue of unconstitutionality in these two issues in the establishment of age limits and in the establishment of retrospective terms. To highlight the terms of the sports federations, we introduced them by Law No4603/2019, the so-called Vasileidis law. Mr Andrianos had already tried, too, not to blame him, and he did not get the bill to come to plenary because the government had then fallen. So since the Minister, even slowly, understood - and we recognise this - at least in the case of the retrospectiveness of the births that this provision will be afflicted by the Constitution - and there have also been reactions to the committee and members of the New Democracy Parliament - we will stand on the other issue that remains in the bill, listening to the legislative improvements, which are the introduction of age-limits. And there, Mr President, I would like two opinions: one opinion is from Professor Nikos Alvizatou, who was asked to give an opinion on these two issues. It says that a limit of the State's regulatory intervention in sport is the individual right to sport, resulting from the right to free development of personality - Article 5(1) of the Constitution - and that the legislator cannot unduly restrict the right of anyone to perform in the sport he wishes, to participate in sports clubs and to participate in sports events. A corresponding right is recognised in sports clubs as well. This consists of their claim for self-government and freedom of operation, resulting from Article 12 of the Constitution, the right of association. This right is obviously included, as Mr Alibizatos says, and their freedom to demonstrate their administration. Age ceilings are not laid down by the legislation in force, nor by the exercise of free professions nor much less for participation in the administration of legal persons under private law. So what is the aim of - is the recent Mr Alivizatos - the attempt to introduce age restrictions for participation in the administration of sports federations? Because in the draft report we did not read any thoughts in this regard. As for the change of persons in the administration of sports federations, in order not to question the effectiveness of the administrations in question, this is obviously best achieved through the proposed terms of terms, which, as I have said before, was the legislation in force under Law 4603 and the statutes of many international sports federations. In the opinion of Mr Alvizatou, therefore, there is no such public interest as to impose the proposed age restriction. Mr. Alivizatos is further developing his thought to end up with the issue of retrospectiveness. I'm going to stand by the leftover issue of the ages. The proposed upper age limit for election in the sports federation administration constitutes an unfair restriction on the right of self-government of sports associations. It runs counter to the Constitution, Article 12, as I told you before. I would also like to invoke the corresponding suggestion made by the Citizens' Counselor, who is dealing with two issues: the age limit and the gender quota, for which we will have the opportunity to discuss more thoroughly afterwards. The Citizens' advocate has been designated as monitoring and promoting the application of the principle of equal treatment, regardless of race, colour, origin, genealogical achievements, religious beliefs, disability or chronic illness, age and others. According to Law 4443/2016, any form of indirect discrimination for each of the above reasons, including age, is prohibited. So - it says the Citizens' Counsel - it concludes that any age discrimination or any establishment of age limits in fields beyond employment and work are not, first of all, covered by the protection framework of existing legislation and, therefore, it is a negative opinion on age limits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u146	The opposite of the New Democracy is Mr. Keletsis. I'll tell you what this is gonna be like. I will ask once again, starting from Mera25, the Greek Solution, etc., whether the parliamentary representative or someone in his place will speak. I will reach Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou who has the right to speak and to Mr Lebanese who also has the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u147	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u148	Minister, are you teaching me lessons? You're the last one to talk. That's why I left you last. Don't raise your hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u149	So you don't forget me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u150	I'm not forgetting you. No way because of personal love. Mrs. Sacorafa, will you speak? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, I could argue personally, but precisely because there is the opinion of a well-founded...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u152	Mrs. Sacorafa, I'm sorry to interrupt you. It's my fault. Before I give you the floor, the match must be preceded by the New Democracy. I'm sorry. Mr. Keletsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u153	Once the Presidents who have all the guarantees of complete knowledge make mistakes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u154	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, today we are discussing a very important bill dealing with sport and this bill faces two very important and crucial issues in sport, which are about transparency and social and sporting life. One has to do with manipulation of the games. It is a very important issue and too much has been said. Both of these issues, manipulation and violence, which is the second topic to deal with this bill, have to do with the quality of our democracy. It is therefore two very important issues. I have already heard the inspiring speech of the President of this House and of the representatives of the parties, about the anniversary of 17 November and the meaning of the anniversary and about the inspiring of our democracy. But democracy, Mr President, has some practical aspects to do with everyday life. When I can't take my minor child and watch a race like a ordinary citizen of a country ordinary - I don't say advanced, I don't say developed -...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u156	We are now discussing unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u157	I'll end up. So when I can't watch the game, when I can't watch the final of the Greek Cup, what does that mean? It means that some things that have to do with our democracy have not yet been done in our country. It is a good thing that the University of Polytechnic should also turn it into action, ladies and gentlemen. I hope, in fact, that with this bill, which is the first step, but also with other legislative initiatives, on 17 November, all fathers will be able to take their minor children and go to watch football matches and take part in the lanes of both teams. Because we are, in fact, the only country in Europe, if not in the world, which we do not enjoy, this privilege, this benefit, this self-evidently, of being able to go and see free football matches and other sports matches. So, in such an important bill, you come and put a stop to it, ladies and gentlemen, from Dedicated Opposition, saying that it allegedly has issues of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u158	What was she supposed to One you already got it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u159	Wait a minute. I'll be there, and I'll answer both of them. What, then, is the issue of unconstitutionality you raise? It follows that Article 12 of the cooperative concluded that that law, as set out in Article 8 specifically, contravenes the right of association. So what does Article 12(1) of the Constitution say? He says that "Greeks have the right to form associations and non-profit unions, respecting the laws, but they can never make the exercise of this right subject to prior authorisation". Firstly, 'observing the laws'. We're keeping this. And in Article 17(9) - Article 17 concerns education in general, and it is no coincidence that sport is part of this article in our Constitution, namely education - it is stated that sport is under the protection and supreme supervision of the State. The state grants and controls associations of sports clubs of all kinds, as the law stipulates. So the Constitution itself, ladies and gentlemen, sets a limit in its wording on sport. And what's the limit? It's the law. The Constitution itself also tells us that the state grants and controls the associations of sports clubs, i.e. these associations are not uncontrolled but are placed under the supervision and control of the state. There is therefore no violation of the Constitution and the principle of association when the law comes and sets certain terms and conditions in order to exercise that right. There are infinite decisions by the Council of State on whether there is a problem with age limit or terms of reference. For example, the decision of 632/1978 relating specifically to the age limit, which I will table in the Minutes, which states in particular that 'the contested joint ministerial decision has been made, namely the reduction of the age limit...', etc. ‘... it is not contrary to the collective autonomy of professional organisations, to the union freedom and to the right of the Greeks to constitute associations and associations of non-profit-making powers under Articles 22(2), 23(1) and 12(1) of the Constitution’, that is to say, that is to say, ‘the pleas to the contrary are rejected as unfounded’. So we have a decision not one but a lot of the Council of State. This is a plenary sitting, which is authentic and ad hoc, which decides on this matter. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Stavros Keletsis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The restrictions imposed by this law are therefore justified in constitutional terms and no constitutional problem arises. As far as retrospectiveness is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u160	And that's what you're closing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u161	I'm hanging up. As far as retrospectiveness is concerned, I must say that, as the provision was, there was no retroactive problem, Mr President. Because what does retroactive law mean? Retrospective law is the one whose legal effects, the legal consequences go back to time before the law is passed. However, this law quite rightly stated that it was true from its publication in the Official Journal of the Government. So no retrospectiveness. He simply obtained as preconditions some of the terms and conditions that had come to light in the past. I give one final example and I close it, Mr President. It's like we said that the Minister of Labour suddenly, the boss went crazy, comes in and says in pension years he will count every month of the military service for men as a year of work, and this will count as a pension. I repeat it is a case, not to be taken as a take news within Parliament. This does not mean, because the conditions are mentioned in the past, that the law would apply and have retroactive effect. The law would apply to the future. In other words, the conditions are of course mentioned in the past, but the effects of the law, namely the increase in pensions or pension rights, would have been mentioned in the future. There would be no problem from this point of view, Mr President, and therefore this House should reject the objection of unconstitutionalism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u162	Mrs. Sakorafa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to agree entirely with my fellow Member that we are indeed discussing a very important bill today, which concerns social action that touches all ages from younger to older, without discrimination between sex, religion, colour, and that is very important. But I have to say that this bill only deals with a part and very specifically of all sport. But I am not going to stand by it, because I am a mere MEP, and I do not have the skills, I would say, in a constitutional sense, to justify it. Nevertheless, I am obliged to read - and that is what I have done - the study of a very important teacher, a valid constitutionalist, Mr Alivizatos, and you will allow me to read to you the conclusions of his opinion, which express exactly the view of our party. ‘It follows from the above that the proposed maximum age limit of seventy years for the election of the management of the sports federation constitutes an unfair restriction on the right of self-government of sports associations. This is because it is not justified on grounds of public interest, nor is it a necessary and appropriate instrument for the development of sport. This is contrary to the Constitution and, in particular, to the right of association of sports associations and associations, Article 12. This is much more true of the anticipated retroactive effect of the above restrictions, which further offends the principles of predictability, security and legal certainty and the principle of protected confidence.’ [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] I would therefore say, Mr President, that it would be good for all Members to read this study very carefully and finally vote manually in the heart that they will not have made a mistake, which will accompany this sporting law for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Two things I want to say before I actually get to the bottom of what we're talking about. Mr. Keletsis, do you have the illusion that this year's vote with today's bill, will you be able to take your child to the field and we won't have any incidents? Oh, no. So we need to talk a little bit about the substance. I'm going to go to the objection of unconstitutionality, but I'm talking about the essence. And don't be anxious. The bill will be passed anyway. We're not talking about it, Minister. It'll pass. And can I tell you something? We shall vote at first. So don't worry. The issue in Greece is not about legislating. The point is to apply the law and see results, because - believe me - forty years they have been beaten on the stadiums and no Minister, no law has succeeded in fighting violence, since we are talking about violence now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u166	That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u167	I wish you could do it. I'll be the first to applaud you. But because of experience, let me have some reservations. I wish this Macolin could solve the problem we have not solved for so many years. To agree on something else, because I'm very honest, Minister. We are with you to break every abscess in Greek sport, every guild, all those who with motorbike years have been hooked on a chair, etc. However, let's solve the problem at its root and not 'cut off the head', we put an age limit to clean up, a photographic device for three - four specific ones, because that is basically not very legitimate. You give me the feeling that you are legislating to avenge yourself, and we must not legislate to get extradited. We must legislate for the sake of society. The photographic provisions will establish the right of those affected to appeal to the Council of State and you know very well that they will do so. You say they won't be justified. We'll see about that. We should not prejudge the decisions of the Council of State. There my assessment is that they will be vindicated without prejudicing any decision. What will happen in this case, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen? Once again you are questioning the much-considered legal certainty and regularity you want and invoke such a long time. We agree to the establishment of criteria of good and legitimate. That is why we are in favour of requesting unconstitutionality. Also, Article 12 of the Constitution, Mr Keletsi, says that establishing an age is indirectly in breach of that right. He's talking about the right to freedom of association. Let us stick to the point, and the point is to solve the problem. I'll go with you next year. I've eaten a lot of clubs and a lot of tear gas, Mr. Comrade, on the field. I've been reporting twenty-six years. Unfortunately, this bill will not solve the problem. Let us look at the substance and find a way to restore the proper functioning of the federations so that our people can command and not ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u168	Mr. Giokas from the JRC has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u169	Is there a question of the unconstitutionality of these provisions? Of course there is. There is a direct infringement of Article 12 of the right of association, which stipulates that the right must be exercised in accordance with the laws - what you said, but you said half of it - but it also has continuity. And what does the continuation of this provision say? That, under no circumstances can the law annul the exercise of that right. That is what you do with this regulation. With the specific regulation and the retroactiveness that you have withdrew and the age limit you set, you are effectively canceling this right in an anti-constitutional manner. It is therefore a direct and unauthorised interference with the internal functioning and organisation of associations and, in this case, sports clubs and federations, which is not dictated by any reason in the public interest. Tell us, really, what public interest ratio requires a age limit to seventy-one rather than sixty-nine or seventy-two? At first you had it seventy, then there was a confusion that you're going to take it more and now you've taken it to seventy-one. Elevator you've made the public interest. One is like that and one is different. The New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman said that we are fighting violence on the ground. So, if the federation president is sixty-nine and not seventy-one, he's gonna deal with the field violence? Are you serious? It is so clearly unconstitutional that the specific provision that you use to make funny arguments. It's funny what you're saying. It's funny the arguments you've been reinstated. To make this clear, all the clubs, whether they be sports clubs or working clubs, have organs, have internal procedures, have statutes, which are controlled by the first instances and are approved. There is no reason for the State to interfere in the internal functioning and procedures of unions. And you don't just do it now. It's not just about sports federations. And in the polynomial plan that you brought to the trade unions the same logic you had. You have intolerance to these issues. Of course, at the trade unions, SYRIZA at the beginning of the 50th. But it's the same logic. There is no reason for the State to interfere in the internal functioning and organisation of associations, much more when it is not dictated by any reason in the public interest. Therefore, take it back, withdraw it. It is unconstitutional, and not only is it unconstitutional, but you are exposed when insisting on such provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u170	Please, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u171	Then, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, first of all I would like to point out that for the first time the editorial legislature is dealing with sport in Article 16. And Article 16(5) is true that it introduces a very important restriction on the right of association in the field of sport when it says that the state grants and controls associations of sports clubs of all kinds, as the law defines. This notion of control, however, cannot be evaded to the point where other constitutional provisions are waived. First of all, I come to the issue of age. It is consistently the case law of the Council of State that it should not accept age limits unless there is a strong and substantiated reason in the public interest. Documented in this case there is no one in the bill. The bill does not give us the reason why someone over seventy years should not be involved in the administration of the Associations. However, there is no reason in the public interest. Where age limits must be set is when, for example, those affected perform a public function on behalf of the State, such as notaries, who are very important to defend the issues of their ability to carry out these tasks or public health officials. There yes, there is a strong reason in the public interest that can be set an age limit. However, in the free professions, as well as in private legal persons, the legislator is not justified in placing age restrictions and retroactively. Now, in terms of terms of terms, once again, the restriction that raises issues of constitutionality. In our opinion, however, only in the retrospectiveness of the part, because there, as Professor Alivizatos says, is in breach of a fundamental principle of law, the principle of predictability. If it does not invoke the bill, nor here, a particular reason for public interest to put a retroactive limit on the term of office, that according to the Constitution cannot be justified. Predictability means that we can plan our lives according to the data we have at the moment. When the legislator comes back to overthrow them, as is the case in this case with the retrospectiveness of the term, he should once again base a serious reason in the public interest. This is not the case in this case, so the objection of anti-constitutionalism to the extent that it supports retrospectiveness in terms of terms and, in general, age restriction, whether retroactive or ex tunc, we support them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u173	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. We believe that Article 8(1) of the draft law on age limit violates the Constitution, in particular Article 12 of the Constitution, as regards the right of association. And because the fellow Member of the New Democracy has referred to today, on which we honour the memory of the Polytechnic uprising, and because I understand his attempt to support the bill, but I think he has exceeded a limit - he was king of the king in particular on the subject of retrospectiveness - I would like to say that despite our ideological and political differences, what unites us, is our faith in democracy and, of course, in a constitutional context. After all, next week we also have the Revision of the Constitution. Let us remind you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that one of the first rights that the dictatorship has had was the right to cooperate and, indeed, to sport with the unspeakable memory of Aslanides. So, by honouring today, we should not question that Article 12 of the right of association is at the heart of both sports clubs and federations and of all sport. So, as other colleagues have said before, clearly the state which grants and controls, particularly as regards the finances of sports clubs, may set limits. But where do these limits stop? They stop when Article 12 is violated, namely the right to self-government, to freedom of movement and, obviously, the freedom to show the sports clubs and the federations of their administrations. I would like to read some points from the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which specifically refer to this right of association: 'The restrictions on the right of association must be interpreted closely and only convincingly and imperatively few can justify them'. 'Every intervention...' continues the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg, '... must respond to a pressing social need, the assistance of which the European Court of Justice itself has to check each time'. It is clear, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that there is not such a pressing need, nor is there any public interest affected by the fact that the births are a year more or less. On the contrary, establishing this is a fundamental right, both for sport and for our democracy, that of Article 12, for the freedom and right of association. The fact is that the Minister has deleted this particular arrangement on the subject of retrospectiveness - which we must recognise - through the discussions, the pressures and reactions that have existed from the field of sport and, of course, also from the suggestion made by the authoritative professor of Constitutional Law, Mr Alivizatos. However, the new Republic's dear and dear colleague insisted on this. I would therefore like to reply to him that the settled case-law of the Ice Bay on this matter states that it expresses the general principle of interpretation and Article 77 of the Constitution, the law on non-retroactiveness of laws, which seeks as far as possible to ensure the certainty of rights, the security of trade and the stability of law. "And yes, yes," says the case law of the Ice Bay, "...in the same decision Parliament may give retroactive effect to the rules of law it adopts, but that is lawful provided that it does not challenge constitutionally protected rights at the same time." In conclusion, Mr President, I would also like to draw the conclusion from the opinion of Mr Alvizatou, which our rapporteur, Mr Burns, and also from previous colleagues, to say: 'From the above, it is clear that the proposed age limit of seventy years for the election of the sports federation is an unfair restriction on the right of self-government of sports associations. This is because it is not justified on grounds of public interest, nor is it a necessary and appropriate instrument for the development of sport. This is contrary to the Constitution and, in particular, to the right of association of sports associations and associations referred to in Article 12 of the Constitution.’
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u175	Mr Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start by giving a brief answer to the parliamentary representative, Mr Heta. I wanted to say that our view - only this decline is outside the issue of unconstitutionalism - is that we believe in the current political leadership of the Ministry of Sports, we believe that it will take this big step and that next year we can go with our children on the field. But that will be done if all the wings in here support this attempt to combat violence in and out of the stadiums. This is something we will have the opportunity today to talk about. But it is important to admit to this, because in addition to the leadership of the dared ministry, we will also have with us the vast majority of the Greek people. In relation to the substance of the issue of unconstitutionalism, you are all referring to Mr Alivizatos's opinion, which we honor as legal, as a constitutionalist, we read his opinion and we respect it. But his opinion is one of many. As you know, we cannot take account of one another and forget the many. We therefore have the opinion of the Legal Council of State, the Ministry, we have the multiple decisions of the Council of State - if I am not mistaken, recently there was one on the Bar Association - we have - and I think that this is very important for the work we are doing and perhaps the largest and oldest Members of Parliament are aware of it - and the agreement of Parliament's Scientific Service, which does not at all concur with issues of unconstitutionality. So without triggering controversy here, there is indeed Mr Alivizatos's view, but there are as I have mentioned - and I do not think you are questioning them - and other points on which we are counting and moving forward. It is also a basis - which you can later develop - that the introduction of the age limit is not unconstitutional - the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement said so - and that in legal terms it is said that it is not excessively restrictive. But let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen, especially of SYRIZA. What are we doing here today? Why are we only talking about the formality and not about the substance of the matter that you have raised?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u177	I'll see you around.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u178	I'll see you around, yeah. And because we have not all lost our memory in this country and certainly have not lost it in this Chamber, I would like to remind you what Mr. Kontonis said in 2015, which proves exactly how you continue in the same pattern to eat and contradict on a case-by-case basis. So he said your Minister: "Our pursuit is to make a thorough review of all federations and then bring in a framework for the terms of office and the electoral process of the boards. There's a limit. To make two terms for the President." You came after and you legislated on Vassiliou, saying he too wants to put ceilings on the positions of responsibility. It says more - not to eat the time of plenary - which shows that the intention was the same. But there was no power and political will on your part to do something that the vast majority of the members of the sport movement and of the clubs want. In other words, they want renewal, they want to change the mode of operation, they want a modern and modern sports movement, which, in essence, beats the waterproof and the trapped situations. This is precisely what the current government has the political courage to do in the face of the Minister, Mr Augias, and this political courage you did not have. It is simple, we understand it and we accept your appeal to formalities and constitutionalities, but in essence you do not respond to the real and modern problems. Coming to what the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party said, I say that you are right. Who determines what the year is? So, did you say it was sixty-nine, seventy, seventy-one? You've got a point there. But there, we don't come to start with, we don't come to make smart guys, nor to reverse our opinions. We are simply following the best decisions and procedures followed by the modern Western world. Well, we've got to talk, then. In European practices, in France and Germany, the limit is seventy. We put seventy ones. In other countries, the United States, Brazil, have two terms of reference. We put three on. And if we get both of the executive years, - they're just mathematics, they all do - how many years does a president, an executive member of a board of directors have to do his job? Does he need more?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u179	Are we going to decide that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u180	Yes, that's the state. And we come to the article you read. As Mr Kamines has already said, it's half. In its Rules of Procedure, the CVMP provides for a three-year term of office for the Chairperson and the members of its Board. There are too many such international federations, which come and answer the question that it is not legislated, but we must choose. We have therefore chosen through dialogue and through the good intention of the political leadership that has withdrawn - although the rivals have sufficiently analysed, why could we go through this point too - and raised the threshold by one year? So I think the Minister's good attitude seems to be. Looks like the need from the sports movement. We also respect the opinion of Mrs Sakorafa, who has honoured Greece and as an athlete and we hear her opinion. But we are moving with the majority of the sport movement and I think we are doing the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u181	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u183	I asked for the floor, Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u184	I spoke to Mr. Lebanese. If we continue this procedure on staff, we will not have time for Sunday's struggle. And because it's Friday, be patient.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, I can have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u186	Please. One minute, the Minister will finish, and if you show a good mood, we'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u187	I asked for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u188	If you insist, you speak. I'll give you the floor. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to Members' views from all political groups. However, let me tell you that I expected a little differently the beginning of today's debate in plenary, but it is never too late. This is where we talked with honesty. We said to think and take into account all that, days now, they say public people, who have dedicated their lives to sport, Olympics, world champions, people, members of the sport movement, who have now opened their mouths and spoken loud and clear and who have not been questioned by anyone, even by SYRIZA and other political parties. However, I should like to make a correction, Mr President. It has been heard earlier that we have brought amendments at the last minute. No, Mrs. Sacorafa. You're making a mistake! We have brought legislative improvements and accepted only one amendment, the one tabled by the Change Movement and Mr Constantopoulos, as we have the right under Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u190	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u191	Don't interrupt me, please. I didn't interrupt you. I'm on it. I have listened very carefully to what has been said about the age limit, and indeed mentioned the example of the notaries who perform their duties and there is every reason to set an age limit. So, the commander of a sports federation, which has something to do with young children, isn't it a function? But I'm going a little bit further. I'll just talk. I am not a constitutionalist, but an anti-constitutionalist, in my view, ladies and gentlemen, is stagnation, and it is this hypocrisy, for years now, which everyone is saying about self-regulation, from the time of Mr Andrianos, or at the same time particularly when he started this very serious debate, about terms of birth and limits on permanent, lifelong presence in positions of responsibility and administrative positions in the federations. However, this process was not completed because the government ended its course prematurely. We have no illusions, ladies and gentlemen, that everything will be solved in one day. You know that very well. We all know that very well. But we have a responsibility. We have a responsibility to do what our conscience says. We have a responsibility to both Olympics and athletes, who are either in the Chamber or are watching us right now. We have a responsibility towards every healthy cell of sports society. We have a responsibility towards our country, friends and friends. That is why I am telling you very clearly: please carefully read what the Greek Parliament's Scientific Service says. I distinguish two points: "According to Article 16(1) of the Constitution, the Constitution does not merely guarantee the right to sport, but protects sport and as an institution. The consequence of this assumption is that it is excluded from the common regulatory scope, in general, for the organisation of sports activities.’ That is what the Scientific Committee is saying on the basis of Mr Alivizatos's earlier writing. And it continues: "According to the case law of the Council of State, this constitutional provision reflects the strong state interest in both amateur and professional sport." Yeah, there's a strong interest. Yes, we state it clearly and publicly: we are interested in sport in our country. It goes on to say that: ‘In the context of this State control, State intervention may be created in respect of the organisation and functioning of the federations concerned, which otherwise could be regarded as an object of Article 12 of the Constitution, which ensures the freedom of association.’ So this answer is also addressed to the Communist Party of Greece. However, there are also judicial decisions. I will mention one, and Mr Lebanese and Mr Keletsis have said so very well earlier. Decision 420 1983 of the Arable Ice Commission, ladies and gentlemen. Please, it's worth it, read it to get up to date. However, there is another element which I would ask you to take into account. The Legal Adviser of the State Mr Georgakis makes it clear what is laid down in Articles 12 and 16 of the current constitution and writes them, as has been said - so that I do not eat time, that the procedure should go ahead - by the two colleagues of the ruling party. And it concludes: 'In conclusion, the proposed amendments in Article 8 of the draft sport law are, in our view, within the constitutional framework'. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to end this hypocrisy of alleged objections and problems in an issue that should have been resolved for many years. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The philosophy of the bill we are going to discuss, when this process is over today, comes from the need for the administrative renewal of federations, ladies and gentlemen. We want to give the young people room. We need oxygen now in the sports federations all over the country, and that will only happen when we all assume our responsibilities, zero apart. That is why, ladies and gentlemen - and Mr Lebanese mentioned earlier - on the Council of Europe, we have rightly taken this into account before we have taken any action. He mentioned earlier, correctly, about the European Union and I am, of course, referring to the principles of good governance in sport, page 10, Article 6. I'm running fast, so we can get the process started, and I'm just telegraphing what FIFA says, about limits, terms. A few words about the hypocrisy of the EEC, the Greek Basketball Federation. In the Arbitration Regulation, namely, in Chapter IV - Noteors, Race Chronicles - it is stated that a maximum age for maintaining the status of notifier or timer, not arbitrator, is set at seventy years of age. Similarly, the upper age is the seventh for both observers, competitors of the games. This is in the EEC's Rules of Procedure. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen: the ILO regulation, so that we can discuss everything with their name in here. The provision is fully in line with the ILO Statute. Mr Kapralos said so a few days ago at the committee meeting. He even admitted that the self-regulation recommendations, which have never been made, have been launched for five to six years, as hesitantly said. I'm telling you loud and clear that's a lot more. The conversation was a good one, but everything was a stagnant one. That is why the ILO also had and in writing requested at previous years of age a limit of seven years, three terms for the President, two terms for executive members and the right to re-election after a pause for executives. That's what we do today, just for seventy, go to seventy-one. At the same time, however, when there are terms of birth and age limits in many of the respective organizations, federations and Olympic associations around the world - we are not originalising - we are late to do what is self-evident, ladies and gentlemen. Brazil says not more than two terms, America not more than two terms, New Zealand not more than three terms, Germany up to seventy years and, finally, France up to seventy years and finally, a number of other countries. So enough of this hypocrisy. It is time to take responsibility, it is time to liberate the healthy forces of the sports world, the sports society of Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u192	On staff, Mr Keletsis, you have the floor. Tell us what the staff are made up of.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, my colleague, Parliamentary spokesman for the JRC, referred to ridiculous arguments...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u194	I didn't say ridiculous.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u195	You said "funny, ridiculous, etc." and I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u196	I didn't say ridiculous.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u197	Okay, you've got two minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u198	So I answer him this. First of all, as far as age limits are concerned. You even said that, if it's seventy-one...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u199	That's not personal, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u200	Wait a minute, Mr. President. When one says "all foolishness, funnyness", one also rises to the face. I'm so sorry! "If, then, he is seventy-one, he cannot perform his duties, and if he is seventy, he will be able to do so?" you wondered. I answer that. The Constitution places age limits on many occasions either up or down. However, I respond with arguments. For example, Article 31 of the Constitution provides that the President of the Republic should have completed...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u201	This is not personal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u202	I understand, Mrs. Gerovali. Exactly the same problem I had yesterday with Mrs Fotou. I begged my colleagues, because we all understand that the personal issue is not a political one. So did Mrs. Fotius yesterday, so does Mr. Keletsis today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u203	What are we doing here, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u204	All my fellow Members understand the problem. If they don't want to accept it, there's a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u205	You're presided over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u206	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u207	Please, Mr. Keletsi, if you please, let us finish. It's not personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u208	Excuse me. When it's said that an opinion is ridiculous, isn't that personal? Does it not belong to the person who gives the opinion?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Keletsi, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u210	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Our Constitution therefore sets the forty-fourth year a limit for the election of the President of the Republic. So a president who has completed forty is mature to perform his duties, while one who is thirty-nine, on the basis of the Constitution, cannot exercise them, Mr Representative? Also, on the subject of public interest, Mr President, and I shall end...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u211	Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u212	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u213	But please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u214	I'm done. First of all, it's just that it's mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u215	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u216	Why, Mr President? One word and I'll close. I'd be done. The public interest is about transparency in the field of sport. Haven't you, Mr. Colleagues, and other colleagues, ever heard of gangs, for example, in football? So these are treated with this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr. Keletsi. Mr. Kamine, have you asked for the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, the respected Mr Lebanese has actually said that we agree if I understand correctly. I have, however, expressed the view that the age limit is clearly unconstitutional and I will not go back to what I have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u219	Where's the personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u220	I am speaking as a parliamentary representative right now. I would like to point out this. The argument, which seems to be wrong with these arrangements, is that it is the government's ambition to introduce a renewal, to inspire a new wind in the federations, where for many years, perhaps decades, some people have installed themselves and do not let a renewal occur. Here, two things may happen, when someone or some people are constantly elected: whether they are the terriblely competent people, so in this case we should not harm the institutional framework under which they manifest themselves or there is an entire institutional system, which they have created...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Kamine, wait a minute. There's no such procedure. And the other colleagues will ask after the speech and say that I...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u222	I, as a parliamentary representative, am speaking at the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u223	It cannot be done, it does not exist in the process, Mr Kamine. There is no constitutionality in the process. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u224	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm putting it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u226	If it really is your ambition to bring renewal to the federations, change statutes, which, in fact, deform the will of federations, rather than come to change faces from above, moving suspicions that you are changing them in order to put your own people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u227	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the unconstitutionality of the bill has been completed. Accepting the objection of unconstitutionalism, i.e. that the bill is not in line with the Constitution, please rise. [[Responding to the objection]] It is clear that the required number of Members from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House did not arise. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We're continuing in the process. Mr Ioannis Burnus has the floor. I would like to inform the House that, after Mr Burnu, the list will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express the deep honour and gratitude, the day that is, to the children of November and to the children of the anti-ritarian struggle, and to state, as one of those children of November and the anti-ritarian struggle, our determination to defend in times of trouble, during the emergence of the monster, in times of institutional normalisation of the extreme right, relativeisation and falsification of history, that we will continue to defend without a step back the historical truth and historical memory, because the battle for the historical memory is a battle for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are here for a different bill. A bill, which includes, by the way, the ratification of a Council of Europe Convention on an exceptionally serious problem, which hurts sport worldwide, manipulation, so-called'stage' of sports matches and illegal betting. In a country where there are convicts of illegal betting and racing, and even today there are trials in progress and cases under judicial investigation, you chose to downgrade the Convention's agreement, incorporating it into something that you like to be called a'sport bill'. You could well bring the International Convention for ratification separately, so that we too are in favour of it, can vote on it separately and give it the appropriate importance, not the debate being lost in the middle of a bill with very many other different and heterogeneous provisions, many of which are photographic and rousphetological. It is your tactic, unfortunately identical to all the bills, to bring in a directive or a European convention, and around it, to invest all the reactionary provisions, which I fear are turning us into dark times of over-confidence and repression. In the public debate that preceded this bill, you went to impose this virtual reality, which we have seen in the country since 8 July, a festive - supposedly - atmosphere of communal consensus on the bill. You have shown the statements by some Olympians - we honour them, but they do not express the whole of the Olympics - and you have hidden through the media - that you are controlling and supporting you - that hundreds of unions and federations are opposed to this bill. I submit the list in the minutes only from the EAGF, where two hundred and thirty-seven unions disagree with the bill. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Burnos, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the bill we are debating today in the framework of Mr Mitsotakis' staffing state, firstly, dismantles the democratic conquests of the Baselian law, of Law 4603/2019 in terms of transparency, representation in the administrative bodies and further strengthening the sport movement with new people. Secondly, it introduces dangerous provisions on democratic freedoms for the collection of personal data away from sports spaces, even from private sources. And thirdly, the sinful mutual assistance fund of the Ministry of Culture is abolished by Article 19 at a time when criminal prosecutions are under way for the scandal, the so-called and CEDEFOP of culture! So let's go and see the bill in detail. Article 1, which concerns the ratification of the Convention, we are voting for it - as we have said - although we stress our disagreement with the way you have chosen to bring it. Article 2 concerning the provision of tickets for sports meetings concerns the supervision by the police of a identity card from the ticket holder by the name shown therein. Our philosophy and position is that ticket control must be carried out by the sports companies themselves and not by the police. Because it is time for anonymous sports companies to be accountable for the violence and not to hide each time behind their allegations of incomplete police controls. We challenge you to bring this in and vote together and give you the credit. But you don't bring it. Article 3 concerns the obligations of sporting bodies and measures to police sport events. Here we find one of the many elements of curiosity, indicative of how you and your Government are dealing with issues relating to individual rights, individual freedoms and personal data. They don't need any more cameras and audiovisual material. The legal framework, concerning electronic surveillance, video surveillance, the use of digital material in criminal proceedings, exists. What we need - if we want to speak frankly - is not more police, but political and operational will, to implement the existing legal framework, the existence of which has also been the law of Vassiliade, Nos4603/2019. We have been stubbornly placed, from the outset, in paragraph 15 added to Article 41d of Law 2725/1999, which allows for the collection and further processing by the police of personal data that have been made public on the Internet or on a television network and are contained in a visual or audio record made by any third party with any mobile sound or image recorder, digital or not. We have called on you stubbornly since the beginning of the procedure to withdraw this provision, which, apart from suspects, is also illegal. I am tabling the Minutes - as I did in committee and invoked it - the relevant opinion of the personal data protection authority on this provision, which in conclusion concludes that this paragraph should be removed as derogating from the basic rules of national law and in breach of European law. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Burnos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Fortunately, and while at all the meetings of the Committee on Culture, You insisted that this provision will not conflict anywhere and that it was necessary, you are coming today with the legislative improvements - what improvements are they? Here you are near to presenting us with another bill of law with what I have been able to see - to admit that mistake to you. Eventually, we recognize that. In Article 4, too, we are negatively opposed by reason of paragraph 2, which says that the provisions are applicable and when crimes - having a clear sporting reference and sports background - are held in a place and in a time not linked to a specific sporting event. We have already expressed our strong concern here in association with what we see happening around us under the new government and especially in the last few days, at the risk of broad application of this provision for any social protest actions involving organised people who carry discreet groups. We have claimed that it has happened before. For example, it has occurred in anti-war demonstrations, such as the case of war in Kosovo, the bombing of Belgrade, the war of Iraq, or anti-racist and anti-fascist demonstrations. That's where we wondered whether, with a super-transmission interpretation, anyone with his phone will be legalised in these blocks, the groups of people with their distinctive characters, pulling material, which, for some reason, could be used by the police. Bearing in mind that the previous Minister of Government spoke sweetly, he defended police violence and wood, as an element of forcedness, we cannot have any confidence in those who, as ministers, MPs, politicians and citizens, would like to see the police break the door and enter, as the top minister of your government said. Article 5 introduces the exceptions of Article 3(3) of Law 2725/1999 and motor sport. You have unsuccessfully tried to link an exception introduced into the county, ignoring the opposite voices and complaints, to the completely unrelated and bizarre story of the Acropolis rally and how it was lost from our country. Inform all the time and what was played as a result of getting the historic car race out of the World Championship program in 2014 at the government of Samaras - Venizelos and then making cheap spiral policy, placing responsibilities on SYRIZA, which took place in 2015. And I submit to the minutes relevant reports about the loss of the Acropolis WRC. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Burnos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For Article 6 on regulations, we want clarification here, Minister. Let us ask you a question as to whether you intend to include a provision for the non-revocation of the special sporting recognition of a federation - which is true that it is a strong paper in the hands of the Minister - when the delay is clearly not due to the federation itself. For example, when the Court delays in ratifying a timely amendment to the federation's statutes. To say this simply, if the federation has prevented the deadline and submitted its amendments to the Court of First Instance and the Court of First Instance on account of bureaucracy, it is late. There is one thing that you can improve in order to covet and protect the federations. We now go to the articles of the bill, which you bring, both for reasons of impression and communication, and for reasons that characterise your ideological attitude to maintenance and allergy in open democratic processes. Article 7 is suspended, neither amended nor repealed - and I must remind you that you are a government - a series of provisions of the Baseliadis Act, of Law No4603, on the pretext of legal certainty and the long-standing tranquility of the federations in view of the 2020 Olympic Games. We're against it. We have moved from the outset and strongly called for the withdrawal of Article 7, because it is the article, which eradicates all the provisions of strengthening transparency in the functioning of sports clubs, associations and federations, provisions which also contribute to the multi-advertised renewal at all levels of the management of sport. We know that for you, Mr Aygenakis, as you have said, this is all nonsense, it is ideological, it is fossils of the past and it has nothing to do with sport, nor quotas, nor simply proportionate or any of it. They will be lifted immediately, you have declared. You are inhibiting the gender quota in antiquities of unions, associations and federations, apparently ignoring that international organisations - obviously, according to you fossils - such as the UN, the European Union, UNESCO and others, have issued recommendations and directives for the international application of the gender quota even at 50-50 and not 1/3 that we introduced with Law4603, namely the guarantee of full equality. You disagree and you describe, as you call the gender quota, namely the employment and the protection of women in management, and that, Mr Augias, is not at all liberal at all, because the argument that there are no women is being put forward is being put forward. Women exist, but you ignore them, as the Greek state ignored them for so many decades. It is at least disgraceful that, while Greece is in the process of being present in Europe at the administrative boards to abolish the gender quota provision. And then, the European Union, UNESCO and the UN together with SYRIZA and the Feminist organisations are for the Minister of fossils. The New Democracy, Minister, is it a fossil? Article 11 of the Statute of the New Republic: Establishment of the Conference. Paragraph 1, 2: From whom does the conference consist? From members of the party representing at least 30% of each sex. Article 22, setting up the Political Committee of the New Democracy. Paragraph 2: From one hundred and fifty members of the party, representing at least 30% of each sex. I'm filing it in the Minutes. So the culmination of the Minister's own party. I am tabling the Minutes and the statutes of PASOK - so as not to invoke the statute of SYRIZA, because we are marked at them - which also provides for a gender quota, at least 40% of the elected members. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Burnus, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go down. You are suspending the ban on voting by representatives and the ban on the representation of a union in the antiquities of the union and the federation, which we had passed. Otherwise, you are with transparency and renewal. You give prolongation of life to the unions - seals and refill drawers with white union authorizations to vote again for the person who owns them, but you want to revive federations with fresh blood. You are suspending the introduction of a low rate of crusade into the single ballot and the possibility of a second ballot with the introduction of a mere proportional system. What better condition and a set of conditions, to renew the potential on the boards of federations from this set of provisions, have we? You continue a regime that discourages anyone outside the nymph to deal with the administration. What renewal are you talking about? I understand the problem you have with the free expression of minorities and minorities, but in both sport and elsewhere the existence of a representative minority can guarantee transparency and good governance. You are suspending the possibility of remuneration under strict conditions and strict control of the Executive President of the Federation Board. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. When we introduced it, your resignation advocated this provision. You are therefore abolishing the terms which we have set up under Law 4603, violating open doors, telling us that you are establishing terms of reference. The first government to legislate on them, since Mr. Andrianos did not have time to do so, it was us with Mr.4603 and you are abolishing them to bring Article 8. After you come to abolish or suspend a whole process of resolution and renewal of the management of sport, you have brought in a new provision with Article 8, with retroactive force - which you have taken back now, after what you have claimed, the storming of opinions and not just political opinions, into the committee - you have put some age limits, you have also put some bonuses on a photographic device, which will prompt us to propose that you place a golden sponsor of the General Secretariat of Sports, 'POLAROID', because this provision, Minister, is as photographic as possible. With your legislative improvements, in an article which you defended until antenna in committee, you bring seven legislative improvements, which are, in essence, changes to Article 8. So if it wasn't as well formulated as you were telling us in committee, Article 8, how many legislative improvements would you bring today, at the last minute? This is a confession of defeat because Article 8 decomposes. Let's go down. You took out the age limits in the bazaar. The JEPs, Mr Augenakis, will go on to ask for birth permits in the next few hours to see this provision - 'POLAROID', in the end, who are concerned with and who are not. And where should we close it? Seventy, seventy-one, seventy-two and a half, cut off another one that isn't pleasing? How old is he? Seventy-three? Let's take it another year later. This is the procedure you call for as an exemplary one throughout the entire debate of the bill. Let's go to Article 9. So you intervene in a surgical and photographic manner in the elections of the Federations of 2020 and not a good piece of legislation, you do not do, but you dismantle the balance and you do not leave an already adopted law, which has terms of reference, to be implemented. Article 9: Setting up of gym topics and other sports facilities. I have told you here that we can be positive, provided that we see the exchanges from sports anonymous companies to the public and ask for a clarification - I told you - on two issues. We have said about the provision of workers, that, in the case of the Liosias, it is, as we discussed in the committee, a matter for workers under the CTB Agency, but we must also ensure what is going to happen with the federations that are already in existence in these stages to ensure their action. Article 10: Chestantzoglio. We see it positively. He's stepping on the pedestrian moves we've already made. Article 11: Supervision of sports anonymous companies taken from the Ministry of Development and passed to the Ministry of Culture and Sports. We are against this, because it is our permanent position that sporting anonymous companies should not escape the control of the Ministry of Development.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Burnus, you've reached nineteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u230	Yes, I'm so sorry. I'll put it together.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u231	I'm just saying it for colleagues. There are still twenty-eight speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u232	You're right. I'll put it together. In Article 12, please fill in the obligations of the state to the Olympians and we agree. In Article 13, there is a new statute of the Hellenic Olympic Committee. We have told you that, in principle, we are against this, because its conversion into a legal person of private law contributes to the commercialisation of sport and gives the doorway to a future governmental structure to decide to discontinue and completely to finance sport. Article 14: I told you in the articles concerning the Hellenic Olympic Committee I will not extend, because in principle we disagree with the conversion into a legal person of private law. We have no problem with the Memorandum on the concept of Article 18 and I go to Article 19 and I end: here we have a problem and we have a very serious problem. We asked for the withdrawal of the article on the attempted covert of the scandal with the Solidarity Fund of Officials of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, since our government brought law in February 2019, which arranged the outstanding issues of the fund. We are in a state of criminal prosecution for six felonies of seventeen formerly commanded members. Retire even now this provision, end the criminal investigation, and when the good ends, bring the liquidation to the vote. I conclude with Article 20 and the staff of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund. We are against this, because, as I said at the first meeting, you are turning two special advisors' seats into the President of the Fund's Board of Directors' office, into poster posts, without even defining formal qualifications. We consider it - and it is - a rousphetological provision for the expansion of the poster army, which you have also appointed, to a government which, otherwise, invokes the final state. You are actually canceling what you have said about excellence by reducing even these formal qualifications by a general provision that you will interpret, as it is alleged, in terms of increased qualifications, but which you do not define. As we have said to you in committee, we are voting against the principle of this backward, photographic bill and we will uphold to antenna the democratic conquests of the Vasiliadis Act, No.4603. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u233	Ladies and gentlemen, we are on the third special speaker. In other words, there are still four special speakers. He hasn't spoken to a parliamentary representative yet. We have twenty-nine colleagues who want to talk to the Minister as well. I say that if everyone understands that we need to be within the framework. I don't want anyone to notice. Mr. Burnus has reached twenty-one minutes. Mr. Konstantopoulos, Mr. Velopoulos, the President of the Greek Solution, whom I call on the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, should the rapporteurs not take the lead?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u235	He asked for it a long time ago, and there was a consultation. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure will be an exception in a moment. The President has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said that history is unconstitutional, Minister. But you know, at the hanger's house, we're not talking about rope. The Constitution has made it elastic. And give you some simple examples of pension violations? Court decisions and cuts in pensions and salaries, which have never been implemented even today. I'll tell you what's going on up there. It's a violation of the constitution. Let me say that you are constantly bringing in amendments. Listen to what happened today, which I would honestly not even imagine. You bring a bill and amendment, amendment, amendment. And you bring it, you know, the moment we weren't aware of. That's not happening. Why am I saying it? Because you also denounced it when SYRIZA did it and you were absolutely right. So when you have denounced, as Opposition, the then government and today, as government, you do what today's opposition has done, you know, it does not jeopardise the governance of the place in particular. Of course, the worst part of me, as a violation of the Constitution, is to say more election and to do other post-elections. Everyone does that, Minister. So don't talk about unconstitutionalism. After all, the Constitution is a tire that is drawn by everyone as they wish, unfortunately or happily. Unfortunately for us, but thankfully for you, because that's how you rule. That's all you're saying. I heard Mr. Froze. You know, this is where the story reminds me that they went for hair, and some of them got into it. I heard him say that SYRIZA was closer to their interests. So Mr. Fruzzis told us that SYRIZA was closer to the interests of NOVARTIS than the previous ones. Of course, making a guardian of the truth, Mr. Froze, or making him a regulator of a story, at least, is contradictory. A man who makes money by violating the law and is today a witness. It's unbelievable! The one who did with the firm swindlings or anything else, witnessing a class of politicians and politicians. It's really terrible what's going on. The unbelievable thing I heard: that the Prosecutor of Tulupaki was pushing him to give ten politicians to take them to court for favorable treatment. This is a Koza Nostra. Coza Nostra does this, you know. Democracy never does. And I say it why? Because for me, the Guardian is not a special person, and we must take him seriously, Minister. I heard him - and those who hear what I'm going to say will laugh, but it's a reality - saying that his secretary stole him because he got, he says, by means of iban, his son's iban, and he stole money. And the dumbest guy knows that with iban you don't steal money. This great strain of the multinational corporation ridiculed Greek politicians. This naive, otherwise, ignorant, ridiculed Greek ministers and politicians, and his company chewed and he was money. Who's more ignorant and naive? The politician or the ignorant Guard? I think this story will lead to a memory punk fiasco.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u237	He was having dinner with someone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u238	Dinner made others, many and saw each other. But he never saw me. I didn't say good morning. Others were telling him good night and good morning because they took the money every day. The problem is money, though. It's not about leading Paulakis, Velopoulos, Adonis or any other Minister to the chair. Money, billions to return to the Greek people. That's what we're asking for. Not punish a politician. To be punished, to go to jail, but the money to bring back. That is what the Greek Solution is asking for, and I say that what we do in committee is pragmatism. It's not a serious process. The money is to be found, because the Greek is falling, the Greek has a financial problem. And we deal with the Guardian, NOVARTIS, Adonai, Samaras, Velopoulos, Tsipras and anyone else. It is all this, which I too consider to be the case for SYRIZA, unfortunately, and from the New Democracy, as fireworks, to disorientate the Greek people from the serious issues. That is our view and it will appear in the course of course who is right and who is wrong. So let's go to the bill. Macolin Convention, it says. ‘Management and installation of racings’. He's coming for ratification five years after 2014. What did SYRIZA do with this story? In 2014 they brought this, he says, for a vote, but it was not voted on. We have waited and waited and have taken five years to make a European Directive - good or bad - no matter what, I do not consider it - in any case, a law of the state. These are incredible things for a country. A country that wants to talk about setups and setting up games. I have a lot to say. You don't say which measures you will take, my Minister, to characterise as a crime the laundering of dirty money. Yesterday I was the first to reveal here that "FINANCIAL TIMES" told you "washer". You know, laundry is a lot. "FINANCIAL TIMES" said that New Democracy is the best "washer" in Greece. Mr. Petsas, of course, said to apologize to the newspaper, but that's not how I told you in here that you were going to do a laundry story, you're getting into a laundry process. The rest are prophecies in sin. It was photographic for some friends, I guess. And well you do, your right, you have many friends rich. Now, now, the implementation, the implementation of the agreement, how many years will it take, will you tell us? Will you promise that the implementation of this agreement will start today and end in six months? Oh, my God. There is nowhere recorded the date of implementation of this specific bill you brought here. Article 2: "Ticket control at sports meetings" to stop says the escape ticket. Why would the police get involved here? I don't understand. I have relations with Germany and with the outside. When I went to Alianz Arena, I visited it, there were no policemen in there, there were no police on the field or outside. Why do I have to make the police officer, ticketer? Make him a ticket agent on the buses. Put him and a ticket agent on the theater theory. Why would they be involved? The teams don't win? It's anonymous companies, isn't it? Why does the police have to be involved and always the box bag? Because if it doesn't work, there are incidents, it's the cops, it's not the politicians' fault, it's generally none of them and only the cops are to blame. Well, it's not like that. The police of the thousand euros to be a boxer's bag from the boulders, from the motifs, from the lady who's protesting outside, from me, from all. Why? What's the police? The bag of boxing in the Greek state why is it incapable of the state finding ways, through anonymous companies, forcing them to look after groups? I'm saying it for a simple reason. Listen, in Article 7, the quota of women, I have another perception. I think it is extreme racist to put quotas on women. As in our electoral system. I do not understand why it has to be one third of women. Tell me why. To get in 50%, 60%, 70%, 80% women. Why do we have to define a third and well by force a percentage of the voting for women's lists? I don't understand. Violent democracy is not done and with a percentage of democracy it is not done. In Article 9 here, the party begins. It says renting Olympic facilities by sports companies. As far as I know, after the Olympic Games, PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA ruled. Am I wrong? You ruled again. You let the Olympic facilities sprinkle, destroy. You didn't do anything. They've become the predator of every bracelet. They go in and they get coppers, wires, irons, things. And you come today to rent them. Have you made an account of the Olympic Games? Have you done an account of how much money the Olympic Games cost the Greek people, which was a good idea? I was opposed to the Olympic Games, from the very beginning, because, in a symptom, twice we had the Olympic Games, and after a few years, we went bankrupt. And before the 19th century, and then when we had the Olympic Games, Mr. Kamin, we went bankrupt. Unfortunately, it's an unfortunate juncture. But you never called Angelopoulou and her company, who took ten grand each and fifteen wages to apologize and tell them where the money went. Millions have been spent, but no one has apologized. This country of impunity can progress when you take Angelopoulou and put it President in 2021 to make Bubulina, to make Laskarina, I know, to put the charity and the flambours and to teach us lessons about 1821 with people, of course, who have put in, who are not much of the National Patriarchal Area of the Revolution of 1821, friends of 1821, to say it all. So when you don't control things, don't come here and bring me the Solidarity Fund. They've been lost out of nowhere 45 million euros, some of them lost them. Do you know what's weird, ladies? That the lady, who was chief of history, Ms. Mendoni, either by PASOK, by SYRIZA or by New Democracy, always exists. How's it going? Because in this story, in this system the whole thing was Ms. Mendoni. So how does Mrs. Mendoni get abundant drinks without getting wet at all? And you come today and what are you doing? In fact, while there are convictions, while there are courts and they're looking to find the scandal that came out, you come and you acquit them, in the good morning, Minister. What you're doing is acquittal of them. Then they'll go to court and say that "you know something, it's changed the whole thing." He will be missing the advocate of civil lawsuits from the public - that is usually the way things work is done, that the lawyers never go, that they forgot to go, that they did not take the instigation - and they would be acquitted. That's the way things are done, Minister. It's been business for years. And you run the poor Greek for the 1,000 euros and the 500 euros for selling cookies, for the interrogator and for the courthouse and for the prisons. Let's go to the rest. Minister, now I'll be sorry. We have known for years, however, we will both be sad: Xanthi and Volos serve the interests of PAOK. Karapas needs psychiatric analysis. System with judges, Jimplaki-type tools. The Jelus case, the Bank of Crete, the Marinakistan law. Pascalakis case, public prosecutor intervention, and well the prosecutor did and punished him. Let's go down. Minister, you are accused of having taken part in your statements by a particular team, Olympiacos. They've said it many times. They're blaming you very openly. But, listen, Minister, you tell me now, because you're the minister responsible for violence, a referee, Jilo in Larissa, they beat him up black. They found out who they are. One policeman says - two natural perpetrators, where one escapes abroad and the other is free on restrictive terms. They had conversations with the indictments of NOOR1. They had telephone communications with players in specific groups, with the company "CAPITAL", the shipowner who is involved in the game, with Manolis Condarro, the best man of the well-known shipowner, Mr. Marinakis, the chief referee in the case of a criminal organization in football. The same man who has a team, an OAE is accused of many things: Steady matches, 2012 and 2015 the trial was postponed twice, suddenly the witnesses leave, get colourless, become deaf, beamed, disappear, something strange happens in this country. He also has his own means and Mr Marinakis supports you - and he does well because he plays his own game - he's an entrepreneur - I'm not saying, man does his job and controls you from somewhere. And you come and tell me about the violence you here, Jelus, the man even quantifies with fear now. They beat him up, they went to kill him, and no one was punished. What violence are you talking about, Minister? Tell me about what violence you're talking about in here? Isn't that violence? When the referee jewed his life and the New Democracy and SYRIZA did nothing to force the natural and moral perpetrators to be punished. They've got cameras, evidence, video calls, they've got everything, Minister, but in the courts there's been a loss of procedures, like the pouch where the trials were posted twice. Minister - you are studying your papers - on Germany's position has become a similar event. Do you know Henness? He's in jail. The other one, for set-up games, disappeared from Germany. In Italy, Euventus fell. We're talking about framed toys, and because he's the man who likes you, Marinakis, you don't talk, you don't speak. No, that the other presidents are good, to God! And the other one's got the buckets and he's out on the stadiums. I mean, I want to tell you that if you want to be really fair, to your friend, the female marinakis, put a reindeer, because he's completely out of his mind, he does what he wants. We also had another complaint that still remains in the courts. Listen: Twenty-eight indictees, Saris, President of the EPO, Arbitrators Marinakis, alteration of racing results, formation of a gang attack. The gang-based flooding? All this shows, my dear, Minister, that you are coming and legislate, you know - I would say - handcuffly, too much, or are doing it to satisfy your own feeling that you are doing your job and feeling someone else outside that we are doing business here. It's not working that way. Honestly, if the knife does not enter the bone into the rotten Greek football whether it is called Marinakis, whether it's called Savvides or called Melissanides, as is called the group's president, if those gentlemen are not punished for what they do, not for what they do, we will never see in the sun fate, because they create armies, Minister. I understand that Olympiacos fans, as well as PAOK, are huge numbers. You need them to vote for you. Yes, but the referees can't risk their lives. There can't be a journalist in Hilton, the shipowner's inflatables go and take him up because he wrote something, there's a court decision, the judges are chasing them, and because they're the shipowner's friends, nobody minds them. Why is that, my Minister? Where's justice? Where's the New Democracy, which will change everything? Tell me about it? It's a story that took place twenty months later, and the D.A. won't proceed to criminal prosecution. They beat up a reporter in Hilton. It was written in the media. I'm saying all this, why? And for Varda, I could say for a lot of things, but I do actually live. What's the point? You're afraid, why does your Chief have a special relationship - buttons? - with Mr. Marinakis, there's something. I understand that, there are personal relations, but either a button or a friendly relationship, if impunity continues, I fear that this duplication, unfortunately, of North and South will play very strongly in the coming years. And we want Greece together. Neither PAOK nor Olympiacos nor AEK are able to separate Greece in two, because you do not understand that some play dirty games on the back of the Greeks. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I tell you right now, because Yugoslavia has been dismantled and dispersed, if some people know things. That's how it started between Croats and Serbs. Let's actually go. Mr President, I need your time. What was that with Metarakis and Brutsi? What happened? Suddenly, will they give funds and sell the debts of private individuals and the funds? Tell us what's going on. It's 12 billion euros. It was heard at the 'REUTERS'. Metarakis says other things, Brutsi says other things. What's the matter, anyway? What Brutsis says, that they will not give or what Metarakis says will give the 12 billion euros of private individuals' debts? Because if we start and share private debts in the funds, then we're really done as a country. We're half-dead, you come with this option to finish the Greeks. These are criminal mistakes made by people who do not understand - I honestly say this - that the economy is misleading. Say what you want. The IMF came out lately and gave evidence and said specific things: Development 2% in 2019 from 2.4% said in April. Balance deficit from 3% to 3.3% and 2020 4.5%. These are the elements of the IMF and not that I respect the IMF very much, but I am telling you because when the SYRIZA government was here, you said that the IMF said so, the Commission said so, and now suddenly it is none of your business what the IMF said. Therefore, a card interpretation of what others say you won't. Do, indeed, an economic plan and a program to get the country out of the deadlock. In closing, I'd like to say something to my friends on the left. From tomorrow, tell the Minister, Mr. Chrysochoid, to change his name to the Greek Police. It will not be called ELAS, it will not be called Greek Police, it will be called Greek Florist Association. Let the other buckets have balls, let them have bats, let them have whatever they want. The Greek florist club will be called the Greek Police. Finally, police violence! Aren't they going to open their heads? It's all right! Flowers for them! Killing their mothers? Flowers for them! That doesn't make sense. The left ones say that, and I understand that, but when my friend Flambury here had fifty or two policemen to keep them home when he was a minister, he can't swear the cops. He had fifty two policemen guarding his house, the country house, the Flambouraris, and yet those guarding them are already swearing. It's not like that, you guys! It can't be a boxer's bag a lifetime! They can't be the suckers! Everybody's got cops in here! Don't be fooled! Don't swear to them. They're taking 1,000 euros with you and you're boiling them from the top. That's enough of it! Let's go to the real deal with the truth. I'm talking about SYRIZA again. You know, it's ridiculous to complain because, he says, the police entered the ASAE, violated, etc. But I'm not actually getting into anything else. You are the ones who flaunted innocent civilians in the Prespecies with chemicals, with wood, with the Police, who used violence because they protested calmly about Macedonia and you come today to a hundred bullies, who have molotovs in the underground, a war material warehouse, say the police have raped. So that's enough of mocking. That's enough hypocrisy! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Dialogue isn't like that. If you want, let's go to a panel and talk together. So I don't talk to anyone. So I say this: stop using the police as it suits you. When the police are with SYRIZA, she's good. When she does her job otherwise, she's bad. No, that's done. The Greek Police will do their job and where there is illegality will intervene, where there is an abnormality will intervene and - I repeat - where there is something that disturbs the law, the police will intervene and in the end, I will tell you differently: at the rallies there were little children, there were five-year-old children, seven-year-old children and chemicals. You did not ask for a single'sorry'. And you come here today and you talk about the police in ASE with a hundred bullies, who had a war material store downstairs? Are we serious? Please very much. I would like, Minister, to close, to show the signal, the enormous success of the New Democracy, honestly. I'll say it straight away. It's huge. This is the 'M' here. It reminds me of another national word beginning with "M" Macedonia. That's who you are. There are no MPs from Thessaloniki. They're gone. What happened? It's the battle of the letter, not the name. Their 'C', our 'K'. Is it possible to speak of a national policy and to rejoice the Prime Minister with this disgrace? That's down there. You made the meat fish and baptize the failure. Grounds for listing: Macendonia, the Great Land. It is a capital "M" to remind our national word. How much we got. That's the truth. I apologize for that. I put it in the Minutes for Mr. Mitsotakis to remember. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now let's go see the last piece. I'll say it again, Minister. You come as a government - I said it yesterday and nobody spoke - and you are giving Olympia the roadwork of western Greece. You know, who's the Olympian Street? She's the one who was convicted, convicted of a cartel. You, the good Neo-Democrats of the free economy and the resolution, are coming to Olympia and you are giving the pimps' street work. Listen: a punished company with millions of euros, because it made a cartel, will continue to take projects in Greece. Is that how you'll rule? Will you rule exactly the same way? And one Prime Minister in the past, Karamanlis, said about "pimps". But you are serving the same pimps today. These pimps, you serve. Do, finally, war against them and we'll be with you. That's enough of it! I close, saying: With sorrow we discovered that now illegal and illegal immigrants are going to the Holy Monastery of Poretsos in Elia. In monasteries, go to Muslims. If they dare and go Christians in mosques, they'll be kicked out. And what did they do? They said they didn't like them and they said "we're going to Moria". So we give them food, food, shelter, while the Greek is homeless. "GUARDIAN" said twenty thousand homeless people exist in Greece right now and nobody knows them. We're looking at Hassan and Ibrahim. Look at George, Nikos, Stavros, and if they don't like to stay there, we'll take them to the inhabited islands, as Denmark did yesterday, who decided to take them to uninhabited islands. The European Denmark has prepared an island, so that everyone who arrives there can go. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Otherwise - I repeat - you will also become the moral perpetrators of replacing the country's population. You will become the cause of forgetting the word "Greek". Because it's another hospitality. It is another 'I accept refugees, because I can deal with them or feed them'. And it's another bankrupt country to face the same survival problem and accept everyone here. No, first we will look at the Greek citizen, the Greeks in the genus, the Greeks in the origin - not racistly - and then we will look all over the world if we can. If we can't, let's go to Germany, that Merkel loves them more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u239	Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Minister, it has been forty-six years since the Polytechnic uprising and the struggle for the multi-surgery's generation for democracy and freedom is returning to our memory. It is therefore an honor to those who have fought for freedom and democracy. In fact, today, the slogans are timely and demand that all of us, either society or the citizens or politicians, assume our responsibilities. They demand that all of us, in a spirit of understanding and national unity, claim for our Greece the place that it deserves in a Europe of social justice and social cohesion and support for what has been tried so far. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the bill. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today a bill is being discussed in plenary, which brings many changes in the field of sport. In fact, the first part of the bill includes the contract - indeed, the ratification - of Macolin for manipulating sports games. Ladies and gentlemen, manipulation and illegal betting are phenomena which are constantly growing over time. The result is, therefore, to create an illegal market in which fraud, illegal profit, opacity, corruption and complexity are promoted. Here, our responsibility is great to legislate on the fight against illegal betting. So the Macolin Convention contains the principles and specifications to be followed by the states for the prevention, detection and progress of racing manipulation. It sets a framework for identifying risks, cooperation between authorities, exchange of information, transparency of sporting economic operators, sanctions against offenders. A framework is therefore required by the Contracting States to implement this domestic law. We therefore expect the Ministry to implement the Convention immediately with which we agree. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the second part of the bill. It contains amendments to the institutional framework for dealing with violence in the field. Sampling checks are provided by the police and, indeed, checks on nominal tickets are carried out. The nominal ticket is important. It can strengthen the sense of the safety of fans. It can strengthen the parents' view of taking their children and going to the field. Because the goal of all of us must be to get the family back to the field. We note, however, that the actual application of the law is important, Minister. For indeed, there are laws, ladies and gentlemen, but they must be observed. So all the actors involved, public authorities, unions, groups of their administrations, either OEMs or amateur associations, as I have told you. The aim of all must be one: to combat violence and the family on the field. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the third part of the bill, the provisions on sports federations and clubs. In motor sport there are objections, Minister, that arrangements will lead athletes to be judged by referees belonging to competitive clubs. You brought the improvements. In particular, we will see and evaluate them in this direction. Persons covered by the exemption should not perform an dietary work in order to respect the principle of impartiality and objectivity. With regard to the suspension until 31 December 2020 of the provisions of Law 4603/2019 on the composition of the boards of directors and antiquities in sport, you told us, Minister, that the suspension is given, according to the explanatory statement, in order to give unions the time to adapt their statutes with the regulations of the law, in view of the Olympic Games in Tokyo. We have heard the bodies consider the regulation necessary. We understand that. In any case, however, what should be particularly stressed is that society is asking for full transparency in the functioning and antiquities of sports actors. Minister, you have spoken of a new consultation of the sport law. We stress that there is a need for registration in clubs with open procedures and for recourse to a public authority. In the event of a rejection here, of course, they are able to appeal. To stop the unions from holding elections with a personal presence rather than a mandate. Here, I would like to suggest that, instead of suspending, all the provisions should apply from 1 January 2021. Let's see it. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the arrangements for the terms of birth in sports federations, at the very first time we have clearly expressed our position and, in fact, with respect for the work, personality, the offer to sports by the Presidents of the federations. It is essential to change persons to the administration of federations, because it is intended to renew them. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said that renewal is important. The old one without the new one dies. The new one without the old one is sour. So he needs to be odoured. So we cannot talk about renewal and not mean it, we cannot talk about renewal and concern others. It must be about us, too, it must be about ourselves. That is why a renewal act at all levels! It is of course important, as I said at the committee meeting, that the age limit provision does not deny sporting players the right to participate in antiquities and to be elected to the boards of federations. So, yes, in terms of terms, which apply from now on, without retrospectiveness, as requested by the Minister and did, of course, without age-old racism. After all, all the federations and their own know better than we do, in the spirit of renewal. Let me remind them that their fellow Members in other countries, in other European federations, are already customarily applying the restriction of restrictions on terms of nationality, up to 15 years in terms of their federations. So since we have heard the bodies in favour of the renewal and harmonisation of their federations' statutes with the respective statutes of the international federations it is time, then, for the Hellenic Olympic Committee to align itself with the ILO Charter and our federations with the respective European or international federations. However, the case of the Paralympic Committee should be noted here. The Greek Paralympic Committee, as you know, ladies and gentlemen, is governed by a specific legal regime. There's no regulation. It is governed by a Presidential Decree. The National Sports Federation of Disabled Persons is responsible for twenty-one Sports. We must pay attention here to avoid malfunctions. That is why an exception should be introduced, Minister, from the arrangements you enter for the Greek Paralympic Committee and its federations. Otherwise, they should be given an exceptional extra margin in terms of their term of office, so that new data can be adapted and, in the light of the September Paralympic Games, that the athletes will not be faced with problems in their international events. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to Olympic properties. It is intended to rent directly without intermediating a tender if the lessee submits an operational plan and an operational plan at the same time, including its maintenance and repair. We can't leave the Olympic properties in their luck any longer. It is the property of the Greek people and we must safeguard it. Yes, therefore, in their use, with the choice of the proposal that promotes the public interest, of course, with absolute but absolute transparency. We will examine, Minister, and the legal arrangements that you have put forward in relation to the improvements that you have said you will bring about this article. The fifth part of the bill concerns the ratification of the new statute of the Hellenic Olympic Committee, which by a legal person governed by public law is transformed into a legal person governed by private law. Ladies and gentlemen, the Hellenic Olympic Committee has been an organization for a hundred and twenty-five years, and it should be preserved for its work and its property and its people. We have already pointed out in the committees the need for an explicit discharge from the ENPI. We stressed the need to protect workers' working, insurance, wage and pension rights, with the possibility of transferring to the General Secretariat of Sports and to the services of the Ministry of Culture, as well as the secondment to the Hellenic Olympic Committee. We will also look at the legislative improvements you have brought, Minister. In conclusion, Article 19 of the bill sets out the Solidarity Fund for Officials of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. In the same article, the costs of hosting the children of officials of the Ministry of Culture at nurseries are to be covered. Minister, we have tabled an amendment which you are well accepted, which we proposed, and we have asked, for the sake of genuine justice and equal treatment, for the sake of equal treatment to be extended to the officials of the legal persons supervised by the Ministry of Culture. So, Minister, there will be no double standards. And you were right to accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, sport is a social asset under the protection of the state. The social, educational and cultural mission of sport must be safeguarded and strengthened. Minister, to stress that a new breath will really be given to sport, when athletes can become members of the clubs in which they are sported - that is, of course, for other states - when athletes actually have a voice on the issues they are concerned with, when they have an opinion on what they are fighting, when state funding is done in full, but with absolute transparency, with criteria and inefficiency, when the state is genuinely interested in developing school sport by linking up the teaching of physical education with social and natural sciences, as the Scandinavian countries, Portugal, the United Kingdom, where access to it is guaranteed for all citizens by making use and creating infrastructures in each municipality and when local administration is even more actively involved in sporting programmes. We have also been told by the Olympians and let us do this: strengthening school sport, strengthening sport in the neighbourhood, strengthening sport throughout the range. Minister, I would like to stress here that in September 2019 in the context of the European Sport Week, a leading sport event and events in the region, in municipalities and schools could be organised to promote participation in sport. However, the European Sports Week eventually took place with fewer events. In other words, she needed more visibility and communication. Ladies and gentlemen, let me refer to a subject which concerns thousands of our fellow citizens, thousands of households, thousands of families, and which concerns red loans. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that cowardly - cowardly others join the position of the Change Movement, PASOK, that we really need a framework of protection for the first residence. Because real protection means that overdue natural persons may have an option in the purchase of their loans. That was our proposal, that was the amendment we tabled yesterday in another bill. However, the government did not accept it. The conclusions, then, are yours. Let me remind you that the speech from this party, in May 2016, said: "Let's give the borrowers of foreign funds the chance to take the lead, to protect the households." To lead the borrower and if the borrower can't get it, then let's go to the funds. To buy his own loan before selling his loan to the funds. This really protects, gentlemen of the government, the first residence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Please be indulgent, Mr President. Let me remind you that the relevant provisions of the Katseli Act, the PASOK Act, Law No.3869/2010 was abolished under the government of SYRIZA, the previous government, but with the positive vote of the New Democracy. And keep that. So, ladies and gentlemen, micro-political games elsewhere, and even micro-political games in electoral circles. Let each one think about them for himself. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Change Movement is voting in principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u241	No tolerance you didn't need. You're done in time, Mr. President. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. This draft law includes in addition to the Macolin Convention and various other provisions, which are as a whole part of the mosaic of a traded sport that produces and reproduces the sepsis, manipulation of matches, violence and immunity. It strengthens the legislative and institutional support of the urban state, the pursuit of business interests in the field of sport. It governs the government's control of sports clubs and federations, with the abolition of the self-resident, while the door opens wide open to the business exploitation of our people's sports property through multi-annual concession contracts. It will be the people themselves, the thousands of young and young, parents, coaches and players of sport, whose right to physical education and sport, their employment with sport will be hampered by the thirst of profits. Consequently, the Communist Party of Greece is voting against the draft law at first. In Article 1 concerning the Macolin Convention, the JRC will declare'represents'. The convention has provisions, which, while in the right direction, are in the right direction to combat the manipulation of racing and violence, it is certain that they are not going to do, unfortunately, because they conflict with the very nature of commercialised sport based on competition between sports anonymity companies for more economic gains, profit. The reference to the explanatory statement that the increasing trend towards manipulation of sports games led, among other things, to the commercialisation of sport as an empty shirt, since the most crucial provisions of the draft law, outside the contract, are not escaped from the existing institutional and legislative framework that has shielded business activity in the space. On the contrary, it strengthens them and introduces new ones more favourable. It's not a question of protecting legality from the illegal bet. The problem is gambling itself. The experience of similar measures in the countries of the European Union so far shows that the illegal bet lives and reigns, such as the doping that is always two steps ahead of anti-doping. It is hypocrisy that crocodile tears of the other parties to manipulate the matches and corruption, when not only remains the legislative framework that legalises them, but we extend it with the license of online gambling companies, such as online betting and other online games, such as casino, poker and various other variants. The global sports betting market amounts to at least a trillion dollars, of which 90% are illegal bets. Naturally, this huge turnover attracts large circuits for manipulating sports events aimed at illegal enrichment from setting up matches. It is estimated that 25% of sports events worldwide are controlled by gangs of organised crime and while all governments ensure, shield and extend betting, the situation in amateur football, amateur sport in general, is reversed. There are dangerous stadiums, athletes exposed without medical care, with the risk that they will get hurt, ruin a fortune to cover the costs of hospitalization and rehabilitation up to their jobs. The border teams are falling, access to sport becomes difficult for everyone. So what are we talking about when these actions are not accompanied by measures to support mass folk sport? None of the bills that came to Parliament until today dealt with the development of sport in the school, the neighborhood, how each sport will develop, how the participation of young people will be strengthened, how the structures and conditions needed to facilitate her family and children have access to systematic exercise as a way of life. The Honourable Secretary for Healthy Sport has no objection at all. The Government deliberately disconnects the measures against violence and manipulation of the matches from the measures required to support mass folk sport as a precondition for tackling their social causes. Corruption phenomena, violence, there will be as long as sport works as a business. There will also be set-ups, gambling, legal and illegal betting and, above all, consciousness will be cultivated with the values of this rotten system, that is, all about performance, all about first and foremost, all about profit. It's become aware that if you don't have any material motive, it's not worth working on championship. Ladies and gentlemen, for the JRC sport is neither luxury nor commodity. It is a social right and an obligation for the state to provide it to everyone for free. Physical education and sport form part of the cultural and general development of the people and are more closely linked to health, physical condition and mental balance. The central state, municipalities and regions are required to provide free and complete modern services and infrastructures of mass folk sport and physical education against all business activities and professional sport. The people and youth especially, athletes, actors, parents must claim and take the lead in guaranteeing the right to physical education and sport. On the contrary, what all governments are trying to do is to shape a more favourable and healthy, as they say, investment environment, a attraction for capital we say. That is why they are every bit renewing and adapting the legislative framework to the strategy of the European Union and capital, simply laying down certain rules in the field of commercialisation, namely professional sport, so as to limit extreme effects that spoil the image of the product. We are not opposed to issues and control measures, such as, for example, control of tickets. We have said that to the previous government, when Mr Contonis brought similar provisions to the House. However, the Government shall extend the logic of law and order by means of criminal measures, police and repression measures or by imposing fines as provided for in Articles 2, 3 and 4. If you think that's how the contract application will work, then you're deeply at night. More specifically, Article 2 introduces the imposition of a fine if it is established after verification that the ticket holder is not the person listed. It is too much, in our view. It is a tax evasion measure, and that is why we are voting against it. Article 3 on measures to policing sports events, in our view, is the most serious article in this part, Part II. A similar provision was introduced in the past that no one else prevented violence in and out of racing spaces. That is why it was abolished. Any concept of the protection of personal data in the context of the general aim of reducing it is being destroyed. We are voting against it and we are proposing that it should be withdrawn. Moreover, the Personal Data Protection Authority had also expressed its recent document. Under the pretext of an existing problem, land violence, which has social causes and is fuelled by its own OSCEs and their own competition, an unacceptable generalized fresco by the police not only of the field fans, but also of anyone, with an vague and dangerous prediction through a mobile camera of any citizen who can post it online and is considered to be the participant in the diversions to be linked to sports violence or other events, as mentioned in paragraph 15. We again point out that such repressive measures, as shown by their experience of implementation, do not only effectively address the phenomenon of violence, but create another blow to popular freedoms and rights. By Article 4 of the amended 272/1999 on offences of violence on the occasion of sporting events, the Government removes the wording of the match by extending the persecution to those who make incidents regardless of whether they have entered the sporting area due to the outcome of the race, while the application of the time limits for the application of the relevant criminal provisions to deal with sporting violence outside sports grounds and the conditions for conducting matches to deal with organised bands of fans, as stated in the explanatory memorandum. That is why we are voting against. The government, showing its face from the outset in a reasonable law and order, will take advantage of this experience for more general suppression of struggles and mobilisations. Besides, her scripts confirm it in measures against the trade union movement, refugees, students these days. We say sport doesn't produce violence on its own. It's social causes. Repressive measures always from one point and then rekindle tension, violence, hooliganism by transferring them out of the field, as has happened in other countries, for example in Great Britain. Ladies and gentlemen, we regret to note that the draft law, instead of contributing to the fight against corruption and the manipulation of the sports games, is, in practice, giggling them. The provision of Article 5 on motor sports contributes in this direction and we therefore vote against it. Under the pretext of the lack of organisers due to the demand of arbitrators, the Government instructs members of boards, unions or of the Group to carry out arbitrators' duties and judges in the struggles, when the OLAF's administrative report of 2018 clearly mentions a thousand eight hundred eighty-eight eighty-eight arbitrators - certified executives, while another two hundred and twenty-one are expected. We are not convinced that the motor race is different from the other sports, like the referee is different from in other sports, to justify this provision, which, as I mentioned earlier, provides for the arbitrator and judgeship of members of boards. As if Olympiacos played with Panathinaikos and the game being the ruler of the race or Marinakis or Alfouzos. Where and how is the safety of the sport ensured in the double capacity of auditor and audited? How is it possible for a president or vice-president to be also a referee? Who's going to check them in the event of a bad arbitration? The judiciary and disciplinary committee that they have made sure they define, so even check? If you do not answer these questions, you can reasonably talk about manipulation and control of the sport by persons controlled and even by the bogeyman of legality. You may not be a judge, but you are a legislator and you are due to investigate the complaints made. The Committees of Inquiry and Pre-Assessment, however, have made them bread cheese, for example the case of NOVARTIS. Why so selective sensitivity? Also, since you are so interested in Rali Acropolis, you must investigate the scandalous case of Rali Acropolis, which is playing a lot of millions of euros, public money. It is so unequivocal that, in our view, a substantial dialogue with clubs, athletes must be withdrawn and a substantial dialogue must be initiated, inclusive. By Article 8, the government abolishes the self-interest of sports associations with democratic cloak and under the pretext of Western best practices, as was heard here today. It imposes restrictions on the election of representatives of Greek sports federations for terms of terms, numbers of terms and age limits by attempting to intervene directly in their administrative affairs. Of course, to be precise, SYRIZA has legislated them and simply New Democracy is completing the act. In fact, Mr Augias attempted the committee yesterday to distort the substance of the international association of classical sport federations obviously in order to substantiate its position on the correctness of the provision, due to the lack of substantial and correct arguments, by saying that more than every federation of a state is the law of a state. It conceals that the legislation of the State is limited - and it makes sense - only to the establishment of a national federation, namely the statutes, and does not interfere with terms of birth and age limits. If the statutes of a national federation do not go hand in hand and conflict with the statutes of the respective international federation, of which they are a member, then they are expelled, as we have seen in the Kuwait case. The Secretary-General of Sports, Mr Mavrotas, did so to the committee that FIFA has adopted the three terms of reference for the members of the boards of directors. And it brings FIFA as an example knowing all its life and state that changes presidents and boards like shirts, apparently because of the scandals. Bravo! Congratulations! The ILO itself by letter both in 2013 and in 2018 clearly proposes the harmonisation of national federations with a number of proposals, maintaining their autonomy. If you really are so sensitive to terms of terms, why do you not agree to apply it to Members? No two yards and two weights!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u243	That's right. We're totally in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u244	However, this provision encloses something much more dangerous. Tomorrow, on the pretext of good legislation, and with the example of this provision, something similar can also be applied to the trade union movement, namely the election of workers on the boards of their trade unions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me some more time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u245	You have him, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u246	It is another thing to propose, through internal procedure, that the statutes and age limits be established and that the respective government should impose this on you. The JRC was never negative in the renewal of the persons. The imposition on the self-employed is not a presumption of renewal and a ticket to highlight other persons in the administrative matters of the federations. Renewal of cultivating, creating it. Farmers' conditions of participation, lifts that today seem insurmountable, such as taxes, VAT and tax information, which expel those who want to be actively involved, give incitement to participation, support funding, create infrastructure. The government is doing absolutely nothing about all this. Mr Secretary, the withdrawal of the provision and the opening of effective consultations with the federations and the ILO in order to find a solution to ensure its autonomy, but also with regard to the more general issues relating to the strengthening of social sport. The JRC's proposal is based on the need as a mature request to harmonise federations' statutes with the international federations of which they are members. How, when and with what safeguards can only be launched through substantial dialogue with operators, respecting their self-government and in any case after the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. And now, because of the pressure of time, I shall refer directly to Article 11, in relation to the control of public limited companies. From the sporting law of 2725 1999; Article 75; the supervision of public limited companies is threefold: in terms of setting up, amending their statutes by the Ministry of Development, on other issues by the Ministry of Culture and on management and auditing by the Committee on Professional Sport. Law No.4348/18 removed the legality of the creation of most public limited companies and the amendment of their statutes by the Ministry of Development and passed to the regional units of the seat of public limited companies. For some categories only legal control was left in the Ministry of Development. If you want to keep legality check at the Ministry of Development, Mr. 4548/18 could do so himself. It gives this possibility, as long as the law provides for it in this category. So you are transferring this legality not to regional units, but to the Ministry of Culture and Sport and the Committee on Professional Sport. The management and auditing of public limited liability companies provided by the Committee for Professional Sport is therefore a sample. We want control over all anonymous companies, and that is why we are voting against it. Finally, with regard to the article on the ILO, which is transformed by a legal person governed by public law into a legal person governed by private law, we shall vote against it. After a hundred and twenty-five years of operation, it is being privatised and absolutely not guaranteed. On the contrary, mobile and immovable property will go to the great private interests, such as the Panathinaikos Stadium, the Kolymbia, the facilities of ancient Olympia and others. Of course, struggles such as Olympics, Mediterraneans, winters, Europeans, Olympic Youth Festivals will be exploited by businessmen. The unanimous decision of the ILO's board of directors was reached after consultation with the Ministry and secretly by the fifty-four employees, who, after thirty years of work, are at risk of losing their jobs, both permanent and non-compulsory. The JRC is voting against and proposes that this provision should be withdrawn and that the IEA should remain a legal person governed by public law. The assets as a whole remain, secure the employment, wage and pension rights of employees, and serve the EEIG as a legal entity with additional staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Synhronakis, we're 20 minutes away. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u248	In conclusion, I would like to say that, for the JRC, the real resolution of sport entails demolition of this rotten building that has its supports to big businessmen, politicians and sports actors with whom they are intertwined and who are part of these business strugglings and other activities, whether by setting up games or laundering black money. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, by way of derogation, the President of Greek Solution was given the right to speak. So you understand that this has ruined the order of speakers and especially the rapporteurs. So since there has been a little consultation, the Minister has now asked the floor, who has assured us that this whole procedure will not leave the Chamber. Immediately after the rapporteurs of the Greek Solution and of Mera25 will speak and before the speakers Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos has asked for the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, let me wish at the Step of the House - I imagine we all agree here - a good success in the National Greece which today gives a fight against Armenia. But to say, too, something that certainly has its own value. Please see the list of speakers, ladies and gentlemen. Just to that extent, the concern and passion of all political parties, other than the ruling party - five SYRIZA Members, have said to speak in the current draft law, none of the KINAL, none of the KIC and one spokesman from Mera25 and twenty-three, twenty-four colleagues - and we thank them very much - are here - will take the floor to formulate their position on the issues raised by this bill today. And, of course, another thing about Mr. Velopoulos' show, who spoke as the party's leader before even the rapporteurs finished their positions, came, made his "hard" and then disappeared from the Chamber. Please, however, pass on to him that he has suffered a confusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u251	We're present.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u252	He's got a confusion. It is more legislative power, Mr Colleague, more executive power and more judicial power. Tell him. He knows something. Let's get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted indeed, but also very pleased to present to you today another draft government bill, with which, like all the previous ones and the ones, we dare to discuss issues relating to the chronic problems of sport. First of all, you will allow me to thank all those who have contributed to the preparation and preparation of this bill, the Secretary-General of the Ministry, the officials, the representatives of bodies and of course my partners. The contribution of all, both during the preparation of the bill and at the consultation stage - keep that word, because it has its own value then - and at the processing stage in the committee responsible was extremely useful. We have, however, been criticised, ladies and gentlemen, by Mr Burnus, for bringing improvements and that - he says - is a sign of curiosity. You're kidding! It's a sign of seriousness and cooperation. These are legislative improvements which have been made in the context of the dialogue, as we said at the very beginning. Step by step, point, we have recorded, evaluated, and of course, we have not altered the trunk, the axis, nor for a joke, any of the provisions I am referring to. The contribution of everyone in the preparation of the bill was extremely enthusiastic and really touching, but I would say, in particular, that the representatives of the bodies and those that we have called on in the Committee on Educational Affairs, as well as many other bodies that we met before they even came up and took the process and the intended course of our bill. It is a piece of legislation on sport that our country needs and needs, for its sport today, but above all for tomorrow's sport. I am very pleased, ladies and gentlemen, by the constructive debate and the climate of consensus which, in general terms, has been formulated, of course, for the comments and remarks that have been submitted and worked out very carefully and have resulted in legislative improvements, which I am sure will all be embraced with real love and recognition of the work and effort made every day by all. Sport is an integral part of Greece's culture, the birthplace of the Olympic Games, the Olympic ideal. It's a huge cultural heritage. Sport, in addition to its enormous value, has a great and powerful economic industry, another dimension which we always forget, with many prospects and many possibilities. Successes in sport unite us, unite our own people. They create a sense of national pride and unity, and that is something we need as a country now more than ever. In our government program we pay particular attention to sport, at the initiative of our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. We are creating a single national strategy for sport in our country. Our policies on sport are designed in conjunction with our policies on culture, education, health, the economy, as a pillar of citizens' development and prosperity. We want sport for the many, and above all, sport for the next generations. Our sport programme includes policies to support professional and racing sport. We are going through steps that are stable, measured, but above all decisive, to support high-performance sport and, of course, to improve the sport law that will follow in the next few days. We emphasise transparency, the treatment of mismanagement, and the elimination of violence, of all forms. In this context, we have already launched a system of federal evaluation, with merit and transparency. The innovative and innovative ‘Child evaluation system’, with fully measurable data, captures data on the complete activities of the federations. It implements the general principles of the Council of Europe for better governance in sport. It in practice strengthens the values of modern sport culture, namely morality, participatoryness, but also good governance through transparency and accountability, the prevention and treatment of violence, and the preconscious struggles for which I will then speak. At the same time, however, ladies and gentlemen, we are institutionally strengthening and supporting the task and work of the Doping National Anti-Fraud Council. We are starting the procedures for our compliance, in accordance with the remarks made to us and the proposals of the World Council for Antidopting. The President-in-Office of the Council is already working on the new EEC Agency, where he actually upgrades the Agency. At the same time, we set up a Scientific Committee to support the work of the ESRB. Here let me acknowledge the great offer in this effort of the President of the ECCAN, professor of medicine, former Minister, Mr Scandalakis, as well as all his associates. We proceeded with the process of transferring the lab to the 'Democritus', and we proceeded with the procedures for buying the necessary equipment for the uninterrupted operation of the PSE laboratory of more than 2 million euros. It is our political priority to support pure sport, against the modern scourge of enhanced overcompensation. We also develop the Prolympic Efficiency Support Programme or commonly the adoption of athletes and sports. It is a campaign, ladies and gentlemen, which aims to inspire, but above all to raise awareness of companies, unions, institutions and even citizens, so that everyone and everyone can help, participate in the preparation of athletes and sports on the ground for demanding and qualifying for the Tokyo Olympics and which will be ready in the next few weeks. Sport for All is our priority and our policies focus on strengthening the institution. And because you mentioned to the committee that we did not do anything about 'Sleeping for All', let me inform you about it. This year, for the first time, the "Sport for All" programmes began on time, i.e. self-evident, not after the Christmas that began in the previous years. We carry out five thousand programs, where there are thousands of two hundred physics graduates involved and over a hundred thousand fellow citizens involved. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are completing the implementation process for the period 2020-2021 of the new organisational framework for the implementation of 'Sport for All' programmes, which covers the sporting needs of more citizens, strengthening transparency, dignity, efficiency, but yes, evaluation. We are implementing programmes for the modernisation, maintenance and energy upgrading of our country's sports infrastructure, which will make a significant contribution to the drastic reduction in the operating costs of these infrastructures, as well as to the protection of the environment. We continue and extend them, in close cooperation with the Minister for the Interior, Mr Theodorikos and the State Secretary responsible, Mr Livano. So far, in a period of just four months, we have done well now at least fifty projects, which exceed 35 million and are waiting long enough but continue to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, there are problems in sport such as violence and, of course, preconscious struggles. These are problems that we are not only encountering in our country, but there are also in many other countries, smaller or larger than ours. Of course, these problems are growing because they are difficult to deal with. But they are also dating because there has so far been no political will and the courage needed to deal with these issues, except in a few cases. I would particularly like to mention the dear friend and colleague, Giannis Andrianos, who is toward us. We dare. We take the political cost. We lifted our sleeves, we work hard and we look for solutions to the chronic problems. We have no illusions that we will solve the problems that for decades have plagued sport and which really harm the Olympic ideals. But with this bill, we are taking the first step. We are shaping the institutional framework for dealing with these phenomena. We dare to deal with problems that require brave solutions. Our aim is to stimulate the interest of the Greek sport society, but also to form a sporting culture culture in the young ages, which will yield fruits in the medium term, leading to a healthier model of living. Our aim is for sport to be a celebration, ladies and gentlemen, a celebration that rewards effort, noble speech, anguish for improvement, solidarity, grouping, the joy of travel and victory, a celebration that everyone can participate, where families with children can go to the court, applaud their team, a celebration where there will be no fanaticism and violence, where there will be no steadfast and illegal betting, but which will all encourage players, the athletes of their team and which, at the end of the race, will all recognize the best, who played and won within the court. This is not a report of ideas. They can be done, believe me. That is what we are seeking, and that is what we are visionary, which is why we are working. In this context, therefore, this draft law is in progress. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is composed of six parts. Part I is dedicated to the Macolin Convention on Manipulation of Races and will begin to be implemented with a specific timetable within three months. Part II concerns urgent provisions to deal with violence. Part C contains provisions governing the matters of federations, their regulations, their elections and the appointment of executive members of their board of directors. Part IV concerns the development of Olympic properties and regulates issues relating to our Olympians. Part IV concerns the Hellenic Olympic Committee and Part F regulates the Solidarity Fund. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] The Convention - and this is where I begin - on manipulation of sports games is a Council of Europe Convention setting out a framework for cooperation to prevent the manipulation of racing phenomena. The convention we are discussing today and dominating has a dual objective: on the one hand, it introduces a framework for the prevention, detection and punishment of manipulation of sports games. On the other hand, it seeks to strengthen the exchange of information and internal and international cooperation between the competent public authorities and sports organisations and sports betting organisers. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of the preconscious races is a real one. We can't ignore it. We are determined to deal with it drastically and immediately. The problem is of course encountered in various sports, but the biggest problem appears in football and it focuses on our attention. Already in collaboration with FIFA - UEFA, we have discussed this problem in detail and in meetings with Liga 1, Liga 2 and the Presidiums of all ODPs and we have worked out a framework and we will exhaust every effort to cooperate together. In fact, we have already set up an Advisory Committee with representatives of FIFA - UEFA - SURVEI - Lega 1-Liga 2 and public bodies from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Civil Protection, the IAEA, to deal with the problem of pre-consolidated races and the problem of violence, to which I shall refer. We are therefore considering dealing with the problem in other group professional sports. I am tabling the minutes of Mr Zoran Lakovic's interview, Director of UEFA National Federations, who, too, evaluates our initiatives to date. He says in particular: "We are pleased to note that the first debate we had on the need to revise sport law resulted in measures finally being taken. What is generally important for Greek football is to apply the laws, the regulations of the Federation and the rules of FIFA - UEFA. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the Minutes the above excerpt, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So that's what we're doing. Race manipulation is a challenge to the rule of law, because it also links corruption to fraud and organised crime. It is, at the same time, a threat to the future of sport, as social, cultural, economic and political activity, which is called into question every time doubts arise about their integrity and principles, jeopardising sports ethics and the unforeseenness of any sporting struggle. The very nature of sport, friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, is at stake. The Convention allows for common agreed specifications and principles to be established in order to prevent, but also to identify and punish manipulation of sports games. The general government and our Prime Minister himself, aware of the nature of the threat caused by manipulation of the matches, multiple social impacts and subsequent violence in the field, shows particular determination and political will, of course, required for zero tolerance in the manipulation of the matches and preconscious struggles. Ladies and gentlemen, the fight against violence is the objective of Part II of this legislation. Prevention and treatment of violence in sport is our top priority. We are determined to hand over the fields to the families and to the fan audience. We are determined to hand over the stadiums to those who love soccer, love sport, do sport entertainment again for young and old, but strengthen the sense of security and protection. We are extremely happy, because our policy is already beginning and having results. Already there is an increase in the admission of fans to the stadiums. In the Super League Championship 1 we have an increase in fans and in the fifth season we had a six-year record, with seventy-four thousand four hundred eighty-six tickets. The uploaded average ticket that the teams cut is showing people return to the stadiums and return to the stadiums? Because he sees that there is a political will to eliminate violence. A draft law, therefore, provides for the possibility of sample checks to be carried out on ticket holders in and out of sports facilities. This makes it easier to identify and identify those involved in acts of violence. It is reintroduced in our legal order, adapted to the new data on the protection of personal data, the provision enabling the collection, processing and recovery in the criminal proceedings of the material and data recorded by any technical means, which handles a strain of the Greek Police, so that any criminally interesting act can be distinguished, checked and finally punished by the appropriate penalty. The local and time limits for the application of criminal law are extended to acts of sporting violence that have purely follow-up motives. At this point I would like to refer to the effective application of the existing provisions of the sport law on disciplinary sanctions, fines and restrictive conditions for clubs of organised fans and the creation of a register of teams' fans, together with the rapid trial of these criminal cases. Yes, we are in favour of the existence and operation of fan clubs. They are an integral part of the football landscape, but clubs that operate legally, under rules, which will contribute to the development of quality sport. It is something that we are discussing and are preparing in cooperation with the representatives of the major OSCEs in our country. It's a arrangement for the next period. In Part III of the bill we regulate matters that had to be dealt with immediately. Very briefly I mention: Organising racing is facilitated in sporting, jazz - in common, chess - of racing bridges, archery, sea ski and motor sports. The adoption of the lawfulness of the regulations of the sports federations is changing, as specific deadlines are provided for the compliance of the federations with the recommendations of the Minister for Sport. Please suspend - keep it in mind, because I have heard a thousand other things - the strength of the arrangements for the antiquities of sport, as provided for in Law 4603/2019, in order to consult in the context of the new sport law with the relevant bodies, so that the next time to be discussed and voted in Parliament can come. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that immediately after the vote the process of amending - improving sport law begins. The reason why we are now suspending these provisions is not to force the federations and trade unions to change their statutes throughout the territory. We are responding, that is to say, to the overall demand for sports operators. I now come to the provision concerning terms of births, the provision that has raised publicity in recent days because, I would say, some unscrupulous and some arrogant statements of various sporting factors. But here is the pleasant and optimistic wave of statements - announcements in support of this initiative by athletes, by champions, by Olympians, by sports players. I am not going to talk about unconstitutionalism. Everything was said earlier. I'll just say a word. The philosophy of the provision is the need for administrative renewal of the federations. A lot of people talked about self-regulation. What self-regulation has the last three, four, five, six - and give him! - Years? Theory in theory, in practice absolutely nothing beyond the much noise caused by the reactions of certain factors in hearing the loss of privileges. But we hear the mountain movement of athletes, executives, people at the core of healthy sport. It is the pulse of sport and the great foundation that we must listen to. And, yes, we - the New Democracy - heard and we are here to legislate. We want to give the young people room. We want to give oxygen to the administrative renewal and structure of the federations. We want a new spirit with appetite, creativity, new ideas, and a new attitude to offer, ladies and gentlemen. These are the ingredients that will ultimately upgrade our country's sports ecosystem. And I want to publicly thank all the Olympians, champions, athletes, parents, actors, all the healthy athletics, who are either here or watching us, who sent his own clear message that we at last want to change a page in the sport that we view for our country. And I ask you the following question: where is everyone's sensitivity? What have you done and what have you done to respond to athletes, champions, Olympics, who have directly blamed many federations, and even public opinion, and have spoken of stubborn electoral procedures with fixed mechanisms, exclusions, non-democratic procedures, secret decision-making mechanisms and a number of other complaints? To these athletes, really, what do you think? Do you show stumblings of virtual anti-constitutionalism and pretexts in sins only to justify your role as opposition? Here, then, you will allow me to table another decision - which I did not use earlier in my position on the unconstitutionality or constitutionality of the article - which I am sure whoever is interested in being informed will enrich his information. However, you will do me a favor to hear a few passages from some of the major sports executives, who have also contributed to the writing of sports history in Greece. Nikos Kaklamanakis. Listen to what the Olympic sailing committee said: "First regarding the timing of the term of office of members of the Board. the federations, I think it is necessary and the bill is moving in this direction in the right direction. Although I regard the two terms as better than three, they are already too much. How representative of athletes are today's administrations? Are you involved in abuse of power by illegal and unfair practices over time? In such a corrupt situation - it has also taken part in the Olympic Games - it needs some kind of state intervention to straighten this up. At the moment we are asking for the walls of corruption, the walls of abuse of power, the destruction of public money and the walls of contempt.’ I would briefly quote public statements and other top Olympics from the time pressure. Dimas Tower, Olympiacos of weightlifting: "I believe there should be a renewal to the administrations of federations with people who will offer innovative ideas and actively contribute to the development of sport in progressive terms." Michalis Kouretas, his Greek international pole and today referee: "Of course I am proud of all that is being done. Because it's something nobody dared touch all these years. It is something that will give the opportunity and opportunity now to enter new people and new ideas in the management and implementation of all these goals and visions for the development and improvement of our country's sports events." Maria Christoforides, a global weightlift champion: "The new sports bill for the first time gives us hope for a better future. I believe that Greek sport must move forward with young people, with modern ideas, which will lead us to a brighter sporting future." Antonis Vlodakis, Olympian pole: "Always something seems to be changing to Greek sport." Voula Zyzouri, Olympic wrestling and Secretary of the Hellenic Olympic Association: "The limitation of the terms of presidents and executive members is the first step in the fight against this corruption. Each good-faithed fan of their own would have arranged for the timely and smooth succession.’ Giorgos Afroudakis, Olympiacos pole: "The issue of the terms of office of presidents I think we should once end with the establishments and sport. Evolution without changes in persons shall not occur and this shall not apply only to sport.’ Vassilis Gumas, a veteran international basketball player: "The law is too right", and continues: "The new minds, young people who have the courage to work and listen to everyone else, must enter." Nikos Deligiannis, Olympiacos pole: "The sports movement invoked by some is not the property of any factor. First they are athletes, coaches and then the players and others. So the draft law to be adopted is a step forward and must be supported." Dimitris Papadopoulos, veteran international basketballist, Eurobasket silver medal 1989: "Do you not understand that a federation run for forty years by the same people ceases to be a democratic institution and is mutated into a non-good governance organisation that has as its sole purpose the service of corruption circuit and the definitive dissolution of the values that empowers the sporting movement and ideal?". Even from Olympic federations, and I refer to Mr Violitz, a member of the Board of Directors. handball: "In relation to the new sports law I have the view that we people of the handball have never concerned us with the position and the chairs. Besides, for someone who wishes to serve the sport and who loves it, he cannot be denominator only the chair and the post." Stefanos Tivopoulos, a global diving champion from America: "The change is new breath, it is new ideas, an opportunity to rest all the older ones for whom we are grateful for their mistakes and their right. Time for new blood in sport.’ I'll testify to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u253	Minister, you have also taken the time of your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much. Harry Marialis, Greek Renaissance Pygmy: "From 10 years of age I have been in the field of sport as a athlete, champion, coach in recent years. I have experienced many, I have heard many, for the first time some take the initiative." World karate champions, Dimitris Triantafylides, Kostas Papadopoulos, George Janos, a series of statements that are definitely interesting if you bother to read. I know the announcement by a member of the press that has nothing to do with our political space, Yiannis Kanellakis: "Bold, modern and necessary reforms are the relevant bill of Sports Secretary, as was said by the sporting space, not just. Problems that should have been solved for years, they had been blocked and none of the governments dared to touch them, such as in sports federations where life-long presidents had become, that is, some had been gangs and operated as if they were dictators in federations of sport, as was said in the House. In fact, several opposition MPs commented very positively on the Augenakis bill. In particular, they said, among other things, that the New Democracy... is more concerned with them, "...if it continues to face problems that afflict the country, the Greek people with such determination will certainly change the image in many areas." And he says a lot of other things you'll definitely find interesting. And I'm stopping here with the officers' statements. I would also like to refer to a statement by a SYRIZA candidate. And he's interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u255	Who is it? Did he come out as a congressman?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u256	He didn't come out. It's from Thessaloniki. All the statements are here, I'll put them in the Minutes. I'm sure you'll find very interesting evidence. But I will mention, in the minutes of the committee, an excerpt from the placement, the outburst of Mr. Konstantinos Markos, MP of SYRIZA: "I inform you that if you leave after forty-five years, it will only be for the benefit of the federation," addressing Mr. And it continues: “You do not convince us that you are capable of working out well. Well, some seriousness in this House." He is taking the floor and says: "Please be very..." and Mr. Friends flees and says to him: "You are an Equatorial President of the EAGF." In answer to Mr Oreja, I am not President, sir, for the last seven years. Nicholas Philis continues: "You are a life factor." I'm not saying anything more. I'll let you judge it. Of course, I also referred to the practices of the Council of Europe and the European Union, and I move on, because I do not want to take time from the rapporteurs. And I will put all these matters before the Council of Europe and the European Union in the Minutes. It has been argued that we are legislating on issues that are not explicitly defined in the international federations' regulations, which is why I shall refer to the statutes of the World Steel Federation. In the second part of Article 7(5), it stipulates that, in order to be considered a member of the EAFRD applicant, an example that wants to be accepted as a member must show in the Council's judgement that it is a separate legal entity that has been well established and is always in line with the legislation in force in our country. I'm going to put this in the Minutes too. I'm sure some colleagues will be interested. A few words now about the hypocrisy of the EEC. I said it before, the President and the administration are as much as they want, but on the other hand this administration has decided that a maximum age for maintaining the capacity of the notifier or timer is the seventh year. No, I repeat the referee, who if anything needs physical strength, but timer. A similar age limit is the seventh year for observers, composters, and racing. I shall also table the EEC Statute in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Augias, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] I'll go further because it's very interesting, I said it before, when other federations, other Olympic associations...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u257	Minister, how much longer will you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u258	Two more minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u259	It's been twice as long.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u260	He also took his dentology and a piece of tritology. Continue, Minister, since it's for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u261	I won't talk later. So when other countries have legislated too early or self-regulated in time and do not have these problems, no one in Greece is allowed to speak to Greece because they are invoking the self-employed. Who's bothering the self-help? Do we get mixed up in the administrative part of a federation and how will it manage the house? Of course, we will monitor them strictly with regard to economic matters, but how they manage it is their own issue and they are judged on it. On the other hand, however, we have an obligation to listen and see everything. In Brazil they have two terms, in America two terms, in New Zealand no more than three terms, in Ireland no more than three terms, in Germany, as I said earlier, seventy years and, finally, in France the same. What do we do? The self-evident thing, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, last Tuesday it was published that at the initiative of the President of the EEEE, Spyros Kapralou, who ensured the vast majority of the federation actors, an alternative proposal was tabled to the bill containing an age limit. In other words, before it was unconstitutional, and then there was an alternative proposal, since they saw that there is a determination here and a government that means it. I am going back to Article 9 and I am done on the subject of terms of terms of terms. I think we all got a lot of money on what's going on and we all have to take our responsibilities and vote by hand in the heart. Due to the urgent and undeniable need to exploit the old Olympic complexes, operators, whether they are owners or have been entrusted with the exploitation, use, management and exploitation of such facilities, are given the opportunity to contribute through transparent and public procedures with the candidate Anonymous Sports Company. We have, therefore, mentioned very specifically the Liosian property of which the AEK is interested, a process initiated by Mr Vassiliou since the previous period. We are running to conclude this, but with transparency, in terms and safeguards that have rightly been said by fellow Members, especially the ruling party, that they must be completed, that there must be legislation and, yes, they have been accepted and, yes, the framework on which the Olympic properties will be exploited is even harder, and we will be starting from this case pilot. I end up with the most pleasant part of the bill and it's the use of the Olympians. Ladies and gentlemen, we have more than a hundred Olympians in our country unexploited in funds, in protocols, in services with an unrelated object. With this provision, which I hope you will all vote on at least - I want to believe that at least there will be - what are we doing? We allow them to be taken, seconded, transferred to the General Secretariat of Sports and to all the bodies belonging to us and what to do? What they have been doing for years, to serve sport, but this time from another time, talking to children, going to schools, creating standards and telling them that: "Look, to achieve something, you have to work, get tired, kneeled, and get back up, but continue to fight, set goals and work in your life." So we want them together, we want them alongside us, we want them in schools, in universities, in sports infrastructures, we want them to be our partners, because that is what they know very well to do. And I close with the fifth point, which is the statute of the Hellenic Olympic Committee, which we are doing, that is to say, turning the Olympic Committee instead of a part of the state into a legal person of private law with the relative flexibility of working and producing work. We are still waiting for the approval of the Ministry of Finance for the provision of workers, but it will close this, either today, if we do so, or at one of the next meetings. It's our commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to say anything more. Besides, I have so much material, I feel so full and sure about what we are doing today, and I ask you by hand to the heart to do the same. Open your heart, open your eyes, listen to the messages, read and anyway listen to all those years who have devoted their lives to sport and make a regeneration, a renewal to the sport movement. I am sure you will do the right thing, and I am sure that by the end of this sitting there will be much more words of reason and in this effort I ask you to join together in working together for a culture that produces worthy and powerful patriots. Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u262	Minister, it's obvious you found me a bosom! But because Chichipa's fight with Nadal has begun, let's all make an effort together, at least everyone we're interested in, to see Zveraf's fight with Medvedev at ten o'clock at night. Mr. Boobas has the floor from the Greek Solution for 15 minutes. I won't behave the same way I did with the Minister, because the Minister doesn't actually have anyone above him, does he? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u263	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all right, it's the ministers' tactics. They are stealing time from Members' personalities and entities throughout the State that have been elected by the vote of the Greek people and it is important to listen to them. So don't get over time. Well, because you invoked the word "show" previously, Minister, let's see in the dictionary why "show" and sport go together. The "show", in addition to a sight - you said it about our President - also means proof, the "show" means appearance. So do not confuse the word "show", which is intertwined with sport. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on a bill dealing with the future of the country, because it is sports. There is his culture, his education, morality and principles, and of course he is engraving characters and laying strong foundations. Imagine to all those who have now been invoked by the Minister in his statements - to tell Mr Kaklamanakis what age he will be sailing or to tell Nikos Galli what age he will play basketball or in Dino Jof from Italy or Elker from Denmark who have played at ages - to give them an age limit what would happen. I say this, because we will go further, because as a Greek Solution we are gleaning some issues of sport and starting first from the Malian Convention, to say it correctly, Mr. Heetas knows it, years of sporting editor is. But here, in principle, we say 'yes'. We're staying at a gambling point. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, we must all agree. I'm sure there's the illegal and legal gambling, but it's still gambling. It doesn't stop being this house-closing addiction. And we'd really be charming as Greek Solution. The investment of the Greek is about gambling and yesterday ten New Democracy MPs immediately signed a placement there, and on the subject of Macedonia they cannot sign 20. For something like this that serves specific business interests and rushes right away. So gambling is an issue that the state should be a charity, close to the new one. It's not easy to treat gambling. I have read studies saying that drug rehab, since we were talking yesterday about CITES, or alcohol or smoking, is much easier than gambling. Thus, the government has already legislated, has licensed online gambling companies. And I say, who's gonna protect the young man who's mostly unemployed and addicted because he thinks he's going to win and lose his money, loses his property, close houses, break up, destroy families, and nobody talks, why does he say it's the illegal and legal bet? What's the difference? Gambling one another, gambling and the other. Is there a difference? Legal framework. We shall vote in principle. The rest is self-evident. The exchange of information on the fight against violence, the fight against fraud, corruption, dirty money. These are the self-evident ones, which once again Greece is the country of delay. If the five years were to pass, the Macolin Convention would also be signed in 2014, to bring it in, to control the manipulation of the games and to combat violence in the courts, which we all agree. There are too many articles. For us as a Greek Solution, ratification of the agreement should only be a separate item, so that we can have time to look at the articles in detail. This is forty-one articles, nine chapters. In principle, then, we say yes. Now we're going to the second part of the bill. The police have nothing to do with anonymity companies, like the FAO. You're going to Italy, Germany, Spain. The police are protecting the citizen from the field. We cannot employ thousands of policemen in fights, cannot offer security and policing to the Greek citizen, so that the AACC can use them at once. As far as tickets are concerned, the electronic ticket certainly needs to be checked. In Cyprus, if you don't have a special card as an athlete, you don't get into any sports space. So, then, the police have to be separate from all of this. In any case, it is Article 2 which we are voting on 'yes'. Article 3, now, is about personal data. We agree that we must protect the human being. But, ladies and gentlemen, there have been crimes. He can't open a head, he can't get hurt brutally and you can't use the audiovisual media in the public prosecutors to get justice and in any case to settle a case. We cannot say, then, not on it. They must be evidence. In Article 3, therefore, as a Greek Solution, we are voting 'yes'. Let's go to Article 4. Where's the police? Different sports events are organised in the land or premises? Do you remember what happened at the volleyball, where the appointments were booked in places miles away from the stadiums? What are we going to say, that there is no crime there: there is no violence? Isn't there a crime? It's Article 4. We therefore vote 'yes'. It doesn't matter where the crime is going, the rape. The point is that it is done and we need to punish the perpetrators and the case to be cleared up. Let's go to article 5. It's about motor sports. You have said in your speech, Minister, that you want to upgrade Rallie Acropolis. I take this opportunity as a Member of Parliament to tell you this. A highway organized in Greece, Serres motorway. Because motor sports brings enough money and is a very nice super spectacle for fans of motor sport, take a look at this forgotten highway in the region, because sport also means regional decentralisation. So there the auditor can't be inspected as far as the arbitrators are concerned. In Article 5, ladies and gentlemen, we say 'no'. Let's go to article 6. We're not going to ruin it there for the escalation of time. As regards the legality of the regulations of sports federations, let us say that during the two months in question we agree with Article 6. To go now to Article 7, which of course relates to the quota. I know that women's organisations around the world have charged this with quota. Of course, the legislator does not speak of women or men, he speaks of the opposite sex, so that the opposite sex, whatever it may be, can be. Let me tell you that there are cases where women are more. But this one's a oxymomile. What's he gonna say? Equality. It's self-evident, isn't it? There are women. Sport is not just a male genus. The idea of sport is a genus of females. There should be a combination. There are women who have committed themselves to sport, who have offered the masses. You will give them the opportunity. Let's go a little to Article 8 now. I have here - and I look at it as far as I can, I am not a legal person - the report by Mr Alivizatos. Do you know what an age limit means? So, what are you telling him about someone else? Your brain cells aren't working? You can't make decisions, don't you have a crisis? Your neurons aren't going well? Is that what you're telling him? For over 70 or 75 years. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, it seems to me that the bill on driving licences does not bother you to drive old people and may also carry grandchildren and be a public risk, and on this issue you have an age problem. Imagine telling Mrs Sakorafa now how old she will deal with sport that brought so many medals to Greece! I can't understand that thinking. Another term of office, how many terms we have to be of age. So you think he's useless, as an unrighteous thinker? I agree that many births will become a status. He'll gain arrogance from the other in power, he'll become Creaming. Georgios Georgios Georgios is President of the Council of Cyprus, who is now discussing reducing the age limit for a candidate, but that is where it will be established for the MPs in three terms. To our brothers, to Cyprus. Other terms. I mean, isn't the MP in public? Must it be a Priori? I do not say, through democratic processes it is elected. For the permits to discuss this, in order not to become a status, not to become a state and what this means when it is eroded by power and another age. Age crumbles man's personality. I read as carefully as possible Mr Alivizatos, who says that he is confined to a democratic regime. It's about the entity, the personality, the being of this man. Except if it doesn't work properly. This will be judged by the superstitious body. I would ask that all this opinion be tabled by Professor Alivizatos, where man is also legal. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Boubas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But also likewise, your former Minister from Rhodope, Mr Stylianides, has raised his own objections. Professor of Constitutional Law, isn't he? I told you you'd be in trouble. You'll get into court with the age issue. Your diplomas are awarded, at 74 years of age, to 80 years of age, to 82 years of age. They'll lead to the streets. In fact, he was more than that. Other terms are the terms and the age limit. It is a series of articles, which very much need debate. Let's move on to the rest of the articles in our time, so we don't have time. We should go to the utilization of the Olympic facilities in Article 9. Aren't these all the grooming works? They became the Olympic Games in Vancouver, they became the Olympic Games in Adelaide and the cities are still bankrupt. The Montreal, Canada. We did the Olympic Games in the year 2004, we entered the Stock Exchange, the Greek people crying. As the President said, you want to put a person who alone for moral reasons - Mrs Angelopoulos - cannot enter the Commission of 2021, to celebrate the 200 years, where in the years of the Olympic Games and the Stock Exchange it was the 10 years - 15 years that Greece has helped to go bankrupt. They're dancing! We did some cricket stadiums that get old. In Greek, of course, there was a great deal of study to be exploited for casinos at once and it goes on to say. So we cannot vote on Article 9 in relation to the Olympic facilities. We cannot agree on this and ensure the interest of the Greek public. Who will these facilities work from? The staff who'll be inside who's gonna pay for it? Will it be in the interest of anonymous companies that will use these properties as coaches? Kendra so far were the feds. What about federations? It's an article that wants a lot of discussion from a deep point of view, to see who collects this proceeds from sponsorships, etc.Huh? For Kathantzogli, we say no, because we believe that this provision is photographic. We move on to oversee the anonymous companies that you take from the Ministry of Development and go to the Ministry of Culture and Sport. We're saying no. We cannot understand why this transfer has to be made to this ministry. He was fine there, wasn't he? We are going to Article 12 for the General Secretariat of Sports to supervised bodies or to programmes that have to do with sport in general. Yes, we will honor the Olympians who have brought to their breasts a truly medal for Greece, it has been the upheaval of the National Anthem and they have truly made us proud. Yes, in this part, although we have reservations about that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u264	What reservations do you have?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u265	We really want to know how they work, how they are to be offered and how we upload them morally, how these people are exploited, because there is always a risk. While everyone is very discriminating...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u266	... you would see that it says 'if they so wish'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u267	Okay. We now go to article 13 on the Hellenic Olympic Committee. Because this great Greek Olympic Committee also has a series of history, as we were discussing yesterday about some other committees. One hundred and twenty-five years of operation! Why change the legal framework? We can't figure it out. It's legacy, it's culture, it's history, it's the Greek Olympic Committee itself. We say no to Article 13. There is no need to set up a legal person under private law. Why would that be? What about the fortune? The law, the regulation, the cover for posts and transfers to officials. The Hellenic Olympic Committee deviates from a single mobility system. Why be a legal person of private law? Why would we enclose her? Why would we put it under private, if you want, criteria and not stay as it is? What's it gonna be like? Will she be more flexible, more efficient? Let's go to Article 19 on the Solidarity Fund for Officials of the Ministry of Culture. It has, as the President said, put the Greek people EUR 45 million in it. It's known what's going on. The Solidarity Fund has in the past operated as a black fund with specific people who received salaries and were seconded even to the political office of the former president of the New Democracy, as it had been heard. Seventeen fund people running millions, today they are accused and will enter a cleanser. Who's gonna have the lawsuit? The liquidator itself? So we're gonna go on the basis of a bankruptcy code that the fund decided without a court ruling? Isn't that a scandal, Minister? Excuse me, will the political plaintiff know on what terms the clearer will operate? This thing is scandalous. I can't understand it. You raise the members from five to seven, you go to liquidation and the political plaintiff will not be able to know the conditions under which the liquidator will operate. We move to Article 20, where he speaks of scientific advisers at the Archaeological Spaces and Expropriations Fund. Until now, we thought there were two and two? Both of them to be scientific partners. What does a scientific partner mean? Graduate, postgraduate, foreign languages. If we make them all four posters at a price, they will be able to have university education and culture, but they will also be able to enter this fund. Then knowledge plays no role, so that they can be praised for their duties? I close with what he has submitted to Mr. Kostas Panagopoulos, the President of the Hellenic Society of Athletics, Mr. Sebastian Coe, from the International Association of Athletics Federations, why do you like the interviews, Mr. Minister, where IAF says here in this document? According to Mr. Panagopoulos, translation has also been done. Here it is in English, as IAF has sent it, and here's the translation. He says the president can serve for a maximum of five terms. This is not the case where the candidate was a member. And he therefore says no age limits have been introduced into the statutes. We say this because another federation with the laws of the state and another is in line with the regulations of the world federation. I would ask, as the President-in-Office says, that this should be tabled in the Minutes by the World Federation and that what Mr Coe says is an age limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u268	Please, Mr. Booba, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u269	We could mention other issues, because it is a very important bill. I hope that in the next few months too, Minister, you will actually bring improvements in order to regain credibility in sport. Today the world outside, you know what it says about every race variance? Steady was the game. This must go away, so that we can again have our credibility in sport in general in all areas. Sports, like Budmickton's with a lot of discrimination, that I don't want them to be wronged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr. Buba. Of course, the motorways in Greece are two, Serres and the Battle of the Megaras. You did well to say about the Serres, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u271	All right, I agree, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u272	Mrs. Sakorafa from Mera25 has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u273	I will take all the time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u274	You will not, however, refer to your sports story, because we will take too much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u275	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say - I think I have also told the committee - that it is really disappointing to me, I am a man of sport, the first bill introduced by the Sports Minister of the Newly elected Government to have the title 'Additional topics to tackle violence in sport'. At the same time, it is impressive that the first sense of sport from your position is that sport is an area of gambling and of production of violence and you ran, Minister, to face this throat that has caught you after taking up your duties. I'm glad you said you'd bring in a new bill, but you could've brought it, since this contract could have waited for so many years from the age of 14. So I could personally blame you for a very narrow perception, if it were not exactly that the dominant political position of your entire government was not exactly that. Unfortunately for all, you are not the only one in the form of this scene, a scene that can well be called "The enemy of the people". As soon as yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, the sale of late payments to the 'courts' of citizens' insurance contributions to the funds under the deformative name you give them was announced. Honestly, the expression 'democracy', which we call as a party the present situation in our homeland, now seems to be poor to describe reality. I have spoken about a 'emerging people' because there is no other expression describing your legislative initiatives since the first time in power. The raid of fears. You started with the final state, creating a parallel private state of your complete control, because you know in advance - and you fear - that the state mechanism will react to the impulse you are planning and confessed to the wonderful development bill "Invest in Greece". The archaeologist enemies, the urban enemies, the citizens of enemies, the environment enemy. With the development bill you took them all down. You continued with the attack on heavy-minded concepts that echo millennium conquests. I am referring specifically to asylum. And I mean that your attack was about the very concept of asylum and not specifically about university asylum. A strong message to dismantle the slightest hope of escaping the citizen against the long hand of savage repression. Yesterday with the Criminal Code you reintroduced the proprietary for the first home auctions and you are now punishing the simple shooting of notices with three years in prison. In all its manifestations society is your enemy, it produces violence and you attack it. Some members of your Government do not hide and even speak of blood. The compelling of violence is your only political argument. And because I do not want to leave the question 'Why all this?', I will turn it 'For whom all this?' Whose security are you protecting? And I don't need to make arbitrary interpretations. You answer it yourself. Yesterday, especially in the Criminal Code, you called it, don't have any doubts. You have protected the asylum of the banker and of them by modifying the order for infidelity. You had already given asylum to the 'national investor' to do what you want in our country, so provocatively, that only yesterday your MPs - and colleagues have said so - tabled an amendment requiring at least the public spaces and the public-private areas to the pharaonic investment of the Greek - those who are left - to be attributed to the citizens, if the investor's magnanimity so permits. In this policy, you are consistent, Minister, with the title of your bill "...to manipulate sports games... and to tackle violence in sport". With regard to the bill itself, the first article is the Convention on Manipulation of Sports Games, a convention signed five years ago with drum impacts, but it has only been ratified by three Member States of the Council of Europe to date. In any case, we regard it as a wishful and incomplete, for the simple reason that it is in theory trying to exalt a space aimed at the most humble of citizens, easy enrichment through gambling. In the present system we are living on, all we could hypothetically do would be to protect the citizen and the people's income from the disastrous effects of gambling addiction. That is why, Minister, and we had asked you to listen to the gaming department from the CITHA, but your enemy and this. However, to hope that this will be the case in the environment of the tobacco capitalism we live in, I think it is a nucleus of utopia. Nevertheless, we as a party are working on a number of proposals for measures, which we of course do not hope you will be prepared to discuss, but that is not the case here. In the second article and here the fan is an enemy and fraudster in advance, the only person responsible if he does not have the legitimately named ticket. Informally, Minister, I inform you that the wording 'and outside the sports facilities' cannot have effect. The ticket, whatever form it is, is neither a fake identity nor a weapon, in order to control and punish its simple possession. Infringement checks may be carried out only within the sporting area, and in particular after any first identity check. So the wording is completely wrong. Also, in the same article the author should know that the issue and entry into circulation of irregular tickets is the responsibility of the Anonymous Sports Society and not the holder, who, in the procurement, cannot control its legality. Therefore, the expression 'appropriate to publish and enter into circulation' is not relevant to the holder, who cannot be checked and fined. In the third article on policing and recording measures of sports countries, I also mentioned in my initial suggestion that we should film everything in the name of security. Despite the legal precautions that appear to be contained in the article, the reality is that. You imagine cameras everywhere, a panoplastic surveillance system, without any condition of minimum guarantees. Let us at least provide for the obligation of the Greek Police to submit a substantiated request to the Public Prosecutors to define the local and time limits of electronic supervision, i.e. what 'environmental areas' and 'pre- and after the sporting event'. In Article 4 of the new paragraph 10 which you propose, there is a risk, in our view, of a broad interpretation involving a dangerous and inappropriate application in cases of individual violations. In order to reflect even the explanatory statement here, you should fill out 'by organised groups' in order to determine exactly what the provision means, because the penalties are without suspension and without relief. Article 5: Minister, you must have received several reports that not only oppose this article, but also account for photographic purposes. I am not going to go into this parafiscality, since in any case there is no justification in the name of any need to circumvent the basic principle of distinctiveness of roles and responsibilities, which is the sufficient and necessary treaty to ensure the credibility of any sporting activity. Because it cannot be the same, no-one and no-one, although you have already circumvented it for bankers with the provisions of the Criminal Code for the infidelity you have just voted on yesterday. In any case, do not refer to the exemption of sports provided for in the preceding article, because in addition to not being able to invoke one mistake to support the correctness of another mistake, it is also sports particularly, which is carried out by the notation and public monitoring of the whole race. So the article. He'll have to retire. In Article 6, the lengthening of deadlines, although it seems to serve the stakeholders, proves the sub-scribing of the General Secretariat, which you admitted to the committee, saying that it needs staff with expertise, which it does not have, and for that reason you extended it to two months. Article 7: I also stressed in my initial explanation that all the explanatory statement about this article are pretexts in sin. I expressed the view that in your next speech with the new sports bill, which you said you would bring, the simple analogue and the gender quota would be abolished. Your political abstention for the simple analogue and quota is evident when the entire sporting community, since 1994, has set the aim of gender equality in sport and, in fact, at all levels, especially in management and decision-making. In particular, the ILO has presented a programme of Gender Equality Review of twenty-five main recommendations for the examination of gender equality. The suspension of these provisions is also unjustified and contrary to the objectives of the International Sport Movement. Article 8: Minister, if at the beginning of my introduction someone could charge me overreach, this article is the epitome of the term 'frightly Fear'. It brings together all the anachronistic perceptions that characterise your current government initiatives. I'm starting with retrospectiveness. The retrospectiveness of a more unfavourable provision is not meant for the most detestable criminal offences either. You got it back in the back, you invoked the need to blow fresh air into the federations, and you combined it directly with the age and limit of terms. And after - who knows, what kind of - bazaars you bring legal improvements, that depict exactly these bazaars alone. The truth is simple. Sports federations need staffing and funding. Two basic conditions, which have constantly degraded over the last decade, resulting in the continuous dismantling of sports and sports. You have insisted on the constitutionality of the age limit provision and with the majority of course, you have passed it. I shall therefore repeat my view, reinforced by a point of view. Because my colleague has done the honors and referred to me and my sports career, I would like to say happy that there was no corresponding enlightened legislator in my time, because otherwise I could not have honoured my country and honoured my fellow citizens. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I owe my sporting career to two wonderful old people then, amateurs, lovers of sport, the late Georgios Tufas, President of the Gymnastic Association of Trikalons, to whom I still belong the late Ilias Misaelides, President at the time of the SAGAS, but also for many years President of the historic Panion Society. These today, in your view, would prevent renewal and fresh air. Minister, addressing these issues concerns only the federations. It also seems from the initiatives of the world federations and are considering and adopting solutions through self-regulation. I therefore make references and documents in the Minutes to the various arguments that have been put forward in view of the vote on unconstitutionalism, so that they can be present for any interested party. On October 30, 2019, letter to the SINGLE of the President of the World Federation, Mr Sebastian Coe, of the - very - Olympic that makes it clear that you can't set terms of birth and age. As of 16 October 2019, a document from the International Relations Office of the same Federation confirming that there is no age limit in the Statute of the World Federation. ILO Letters from March 22, 2013 and from August 24, 2018 to the IEA highlight the self-interest of federations as a prerequisite for participation in the International Olympic Movement. On 14 November 2019, the opinion of Professor Nikos Alvizatou, where he unequivocally describes the provision and finally, the statement of the Secretary-General of the Hellenic Republic Mr Vassilis Vassilis, who responds to your objections about the legality or not of the statutes of the federations. I fear that we will enter a process of appeals and objections, which will have even more adverse effects. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Article 9: Article 9, Minister, supplemented by your position in committee and the explanatory statement, shows the darkest colours on the next day of the Olympic Games. The explanatory statement refers to the undeniable need to use the Olympic complexes, which in several cases suffer the consequences of their use or the lack of the necessary resources to maintain and operate them. Instead of this being a basis for reflection and drawing up a national development plan, for the benefit of the social fabric which has been charged with their construction, you have come with the first wording of the article, and you have actually said 'Let anyone take it, in any way and as long as I get rid of it, do not fall apart', and indeed, as is foreseen 'with the exception of any special or general provision'. I pointed it out to you in my first place with great intensity. A panic you bring legal improvements that unfortunately illustrate what I said above. Let's get some terms and conditions, because otherwise everyone will get up right. I wonder, the author of the original article didn't know, wanted or assumed that what he's drafted was perfect? The only condition for the submission of an investment project remains to be the participation of the group in the higher professional category, as it is arbitrarily assumed that it is also financially sound. Not even provided for in the event of a downgrading, and this cannot be a condition of the contract since it will in principle have a duration of at least 10 years. I'm pointing one of the gaps. You are handy and unprocessed, rather copying from some other legislation, without predictions and strong guarantees, and ultimately without any real interest in the minimum protection of public property. Another enemy who at every opportunity attack him. In the development bill I said that instead of "investing in Greece" the "I do what I want in Greece" applies. With this article and the process of improving it, I am fully entitled to it. And I wonder what other feasibility the subjection of sports anonymous companies to your Ministry instead of the Ministry of Development, as provided for in Article 11, if not in the absence of any control over them, would it serve? Articles 13 to 17 refer to the statutes and other matters of the ILO. The major change, the modernisation you are claiming to be implemented, concerns the conversion of the ILO by a legal person governed by public law into a private entity. I will not dwell on the interpretations of the feasibility of this change. What is frightening is your argument and the explanatory statement. I read: 'The cause of this amendment is that the ILO must be rid of the bureaucratic claws that run the entire public sector, which are a brake on decision-making, etc.'. The public minister, Mr Minister, who has claimed election and responsibility, is precisely to make the state operational and efficient in the service of the citizen a complaint and to propose that it be privatised. You are not original, of course, because that is the political philosophy of your government. In particular, however, in the case of the ILO, which theoretically condensed the policy for the dissemination of the Olympic idea, amateurism and the pan-human values and ideals of Olympism, the reasoning for converting it into a legal person of private law is in the most deafening way your political position for the entire rule of markets alone. With regard to Article 19, firstly, we are waiting for legal progress to be made so that the responsibilities are assigned, where they exist, and for the return of the wasted, if any, to be claimed. Of course, we note our complete opposition to cover the costs of clearance from a resource intended for spending on cultural heritage and education of tax and curated antiquities. I left Rule 12 last. It regulates self-evident. Indeed, all the athletes who have honoured our country with their participation in the Olympic Games are the best ambassadors of the sporting idea and the Olympic values and can offer their dissemination, as long as there is a concrete, structured program for their exploitation. Because with this article you are saying your sensitivity to Olympic athletes, allow me, Mr Minister, on this occasion, to refer to the stage in which the Olympic Games took place in OASA, since we are in the Olympic year. Therefore, at the central stage and at the K1 and K2 auxiliarys has been changed since 2004 and are unsuitable for training and games. I hope you've been informed. There's no maintenance at any stage and it's all a year's work. It is true that the closed track only - look, ladies and gentlemen - the members of the national team, while the old athletes, even for the Olympians, are prohibited from entering. There is no sports equipment and what's left since 2004 is in a terrible state. In the hostels of the athletes, I say it with heart pain because I lived there a large part of my life, where the fringe of Greek and European sport was once hosted, and now the fire brigade, the Jupiter and the Army are housed. The surrounding area is in a miserable state and no maintenance takes place. Just for the record, I note that the OECD by law has been removed from the Olympic Games Committee, of which it was owned. I wanted, Minister, to close with this in order to point out now at the beginning of your term of office what really urgent measures are to tackle violence in sport. Urgent measure is the stage missing from the first and second Piraeus, after the fall of the historical stage "Karaiskakis". And because we forget very easily, you will allow me to present this document to anyone who wants to read. It is of special interest to see what has happened. Remind me of the conscientious deception of citizens and federations by the then government of Simitis and the then Secretary-General of the Olympic Games of Constantino Cartalis, for the full coverage of the needs of the SGEI and of the sports clubs throughout Piraeus. So I put it in the Minutes and it is document 5292/3-12-2002 of the Ministry of Culture, which states the express commitments in question. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] An urgent measure for sport and the treatment of violence is the immediate anticipation and implementation of a plan for the replacement of all the establishments of St. Kosmas, which are being given to the national investor. Urgent measure to deal with violence in sport is the OAS to become what its initials say: Athens Olympic Sport Centre in full operation and accessible by all citizens. Urgent measure to tackle violence in sport, and in this area is the return to citizens in full operation of sports facilities in Olympiacos, which are currently devastated. Urgent measure to tackle violence in sport is the performance of all Olympic facilities - and not only - in full operation for use by citizens. Finally, Minister - and I am ending - the most urgent and necessary measure to tackle violence in sport is that the people have the opportunity to live and love sport again, to become a fan in the essential sense of the word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa, too. We'll go like this now. I will give the floor to Mrs Maria Head of New Democracy and will follow Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, Mrs Christidou, Mr Hetas for nine minutes, Mr Arsenis and Mr Kotsos. If other parliamentary representatives want to take the floor, there will be consultation with the Bureau. Here, Mrs. Head, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u277	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our country is a donor to the Olympic spirit, which is undoubtedly one of the most valuable spirits of ancient Greek heritage. Sports activities took place elsewhere, but it was in the Greek area where sport first acquired the form of free competition and fair play. Thus, in 776 B.C.E. The first Olympic Games were organized. In antiquity the prize for the winner was the chicken, a wreath of an olive branch and the triumphant reception of the winner, in honor of which they were tearing down a point from the walls to pass. Sports for the ancient Greeks, therefore, meant action unselfish to conquer the vile, through which a victorious competition is rewarded. That's all in antiquity. With the revival of the race at the end of the 19th century, modern sport took the dimensions of cultural, political and economic. The development of modern sport contributes to physical education, socialisation of people, the strengthening of relations at national and international level. For these purposes, sports organisations, clubs, associations, associations, sports anonymous companies, federations are created. In this context, small or large interests are developed and often the sporting ideal degenerates and sport trades. But we have a duty to redefine the athletic ideal and protect it from erosion, not theoretically but practically by modernising legislation. With the bill currently being put before the National Representation, we give priority to transparency, progress, principles and values of sport. That is why we are condemning the Macolin Convention against the manipulation of sports games and we are among the first countries to do so at a pan-European level. That is why we are taking steps to combat violence in sport. That is why today's bill has the strong support of our Olympics and champions, and indeed with their public positions. As a Member of the Greek Parliament, I also feel obliged for my part to thank them from this step because they dared to tell truths, dared to oppose established interests, dared to come out before proving that they were not only standards for sport, but generally life standards, worthy of their ancient ancestors. Ladies and gentlemen, the phenomenon of racing manipulation is a challenge for every rule of law, for every sporting legal order. The acts that constitute it are linked to fraud, corruption and organised crime. What about the worst? Where observed, black and white-collar and despised sporting activities as a whole in citizens' consciousness, thus losing all interest in participation and thus not favour the progress of sports and sport in general. So, with the Macolin Convention of the Council of Europe, we incorporate in the Greek legal system a framework of cooperation between States and with sports organisations to prevent the manipulation of games, by exchanging information from all the competent bodies, by coordinating the policies and actions of all the public authorities, by taking measures to ensure the necessary transparency in the financing of sports organisations, by focusing on the fight against illegal betting and by imposing appropriate criminal and administrative sanctions. At the same time, we are taking concrete steps to tackle violence in sport, with the police able to carry out sample checks at any time within and outside of sports facilities, by identifying and effectively identifying those involved in acts of violence with fanatic motives, even when they are not carried out within a specific sporting organisation and by imposing the penalties provided for in each case. Ladies and gentlemen, manipulation of the games and the outbreak of violence are extremely serious threats to the future of sport. The Government of New Democracy has a full perception of the consequences caused by such phenomena and with the current draft law shows political will, shows determination and sends a clear and clear message to everyone: zero tolerance to manipulation and steadfast struggles, zero tolerance to violence. Those who have been chasing for years undisturbed, poisoning sport and its thousands of supporters, what they knew to forget. We dare what no one has ever dared! In Ioannina, my constituency, we have lifted up the flag of the sporting ideal. Thousands of fans of the Yannian FAO, small and large, women and men, follow and support our team to the easy and difficult, wins and defeats, joys and frustrations. More and more young children embrace amateur unions that are nurseries for a bright future. So I am voting in favour of this bill so that I can see them proudly and feel that our government is doing everything in serious and firm steps. I urge you, too, to vote in favour of this so that we all contribute to the development of healthy sport, worthy of our history and our culture and worthy of an even better future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, too. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u279	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to take advantage of this - I will try to be relatively brief - and my second language. First of all, Minister, because you made a reference to the presence of SYRIZA Members in the Chamber to say that the SYRIZA Members were particularly active in the Committee on Culture. They have submitted their comments, made substantial comments and proposals, and to a large extent you have accepted many of them, and that is something that we already recognise. On this occasion, I would like to stress that the government, too, in the context of good legislature, must cooperate with Parliament and with the majority - and I also address the New Democracy colleagues - when the Parliament's programme is being drawn up, see this: we have a lot of times when we have the phenomenon of a discussion of bills on Friday afternoon. We know that this is forbidden by all parties in the region. So let us not comment on some parliamentary groups. It doesn't mean there's no interest in the bill. However, I would say, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that there are no bills entered in plenary, and even bills which we consider to be important, such as the sport bill, so that Members can participate accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur, Mr Burnus, has made a thorough, very comprehensive and detailed position on the articles of the bill. That is why I will concentrate on three specific points, on the articles on the functioning of democratic rights in a commonly established need to address violence and hooliganism, on the issues of better democratic functioning and transparency of sports associations and federations, and of course on the multi-faceted mutual fund. I should like to begin with what concerns violence. I think, Minister, that there is no one in this Chamber who has no clear position and position that the phenomena of violence and hooliganism must be dealt with so that, as you have said, all citizens, families, young children on the ground can go. But this phenomenon, which is of course an international and European phenomenon, also requires an integrated approach. It's not just a suppression. It is a matter of information, it is a matter of information, it is a matter of cooperation between the AIFs and the OEMs. That is why our rapporteur stressed that it is particularly important that the AOCs and the OEMs take a large share of responsibility in dealing with this phenomenon. That is where our proposal is to be responsible for the identification of tickets by the AEA and the AEA. Minister, I listened with interest that you said you were going to bring something about. In any case, however, dealing with the phenomenon of violence and hooliganism cannot in any case affect democratic rights and personal data. It is good that as regards paragraph 15 of Article 3, you have brought a legal correction that is in line with the observations of the Personal Data Authority, as we have pointed out to you. However, I would like to say on this occasion that we continue to oppose and highlight the risks of violations of rights, in Article 4(3), where there is reference to crimes that have a clear sporting reference and sports background at a place and time other than specific sporting events. Minister, I have to warn you here and as a lawman that this provision poses risks. It's possible a diffusional interpretation. We cannot isolate this provision from the surrounding atmosphere that exists all this time, and the actions of authoritarianism and repression. Unfortunately, we saw it in the universities, we see it as a whole, and the danger is that it will trigger worse forms of violence and conflict in the sports area as well. Also, there is always the danger - and this was stressed by many colleagues, SYRIZA MPs, but also by other parties - that there should be a broad interpretation of the exercise of their rights by fans, who may bring a scarf or any other discreet of their group and take part in other types of activities, social movements, demonstrations of protest, etc. We call on you, even at this stage, to consider it very seriously, and not to let this broad interpretation, which this article allows. Now, as far as the issues of the good functioning of sports federations and associations are concerned, we all share the need for more democratic functioning, and the need for renewal. However, the need for renewal cannot be limited to the age criterion alone. This has been said by other colleagues. If you want to renew, as you say, and I do not question your intentions, do you seek transparency in the good functioning and democratic legitimacy of the associations, why are you suspending a number of provisions of Law No4603/2019 of Vassiliadis, which are precisely aimed at and serving these objectives? In other words, you come and suspend the possibility of taking part in antiquities and elections personally, so that we do not have the phenomenon of blackmail, union services - seals, which we know the interests behind them. The aim of this provision was to deal with such phenomena, while, on the contrary, its suspension raises issues of opaqueness and conflicts in the field of sport. There is an inconsistency here with the objectives you set and the articles you have brought. The same applies to the suspension of the provision for simple analogues, as well as the introduction of the rate of crusade to 30%. Provisions to ensure that there are no closed systems and that there is a renewal. A lot more contributes to the renewal of women's participation with the quota. What greater renewal, parity and democratic function - Mrs Sakorafa has left, because I would also make a reference to the same - when we know that the Greek flag in victories - does not only lift it up by men, and women, athletes, champions, who make us proud. Why do you deprive these women of their right to sport? What greater renewal and democratisation than respect for this quota brought by the Vasiliadis law? And that's something that we don't just say. The Citizens' Counselor points out that in these cases there can be a distinction that is encouraging and positive that does not violate equality. International organisations, the European Union and UNESCO also say this. I'm presenting the report of the Citizens' Counselor in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Marilissa Xeno-Giannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I believe that is a point that you should think much more about, as renewal is not just the age criterion. On this occasion I would like to present, Minister, and a letter sent to you by the Association of Greek Excellent Sportsmen, who also raise the issue of women's quota, but much more they feel that there are two speeds in the representation of athletes, while they are also institutionally fortified. I'm filing the letter in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Mariliza Xeno-Giannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to ask you to consider this issue, if it is possible in this bill, or at least, as you said when you bring a comprehensive sport bill. I would like to take this into account, and I would also like to ask you to take it very seriously. I'm coming to the third topic. As regards the age limit, we have also discussed the objection of unconstitutionalism. I believe, Minister, that there are many strong arguments, because this provision on age limits is unconstitutional. I, too, want to submit to the International Federation of the Federations the correspondence of the Secretary-General of the SAGA, which clearly states that there is no issue of age and age limits. Mrs Sakorafa's intervention, which was human and experiential, was indeed the best political support to this issue. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Marilissa Xeno-Giannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I come to the third theme in the famous Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture. The Minister of Culture on the first day of the Parliament's Committee on Culture said he was one, according to SYRIZA, a sinful fund, that it is a case that SYRIZA invoked. But that is not true and I want to prove it to you, Minister. I would also like to invite you, because you are a new Minister, to a new government, and you have no reason to identify yourself with an issue on which you may be accused - and I accept your good intentions - of attempting to cover up or block judicial investigations. Because you know they are the auditors of the General Accounting Office of the State, who in 2017 found piles of mismanagement and problems. The Treasury then forwarded their findings to the financial prosecutor and then the persecution followed, to seventeen administrative members for seven felonies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have also taken the time of my dentistry, Mr President, and I will be brief. You have no reason to identify yourself as a new government with this. The simplest thing would be, even if you do not want to keep the provision of our own law, which had passed a few months ago, at least to withdraw this article until it was clarified in court, because there is the presumption of innocence, which no one denys to the National Representation, and then make your final decisions. Because it is not a case concerning SYRIZA, I would like to make the following points. First of all, when the debate took place on 27 February 2019 and was a Parliamentary representative, Mr Javaras, I will also present it in the Minutes of the House - who had also been Minister for Culture, he said: "And I went through this ministry and saw that it was not all right there. And the co-operation I had with the state-owned, as one of SYRIZA's trade unionists said, for me there was a smooth co-operation, from which I was able to solve the problems." But it goes on to say: "I have, however, been consistent with certain things and I did not want to. In fact, I congratulate you." He then says to Mr. Army, who was in your place as State Secretary for the specific bill of February: "I really congratulate you for not compromised with what you think they are the beginning or aid in justice for the disclosure of crimes." I am therefore presenting Mr Javarra's statement in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Marilissa Xeno-Giannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The dear Mr Mavrotas, whom I appreciate and see right now in the position of the Secretary-General, in his capacity as Parliamentary representative of the River, in the same debate, referred to the Solidarity Fund and listen to what he says. ‘The sure thing is that phenomena of opacity, lack of accountability and cross-party customer practices must be eliminated’. "And because these days we were given access to the conclusion, to which I referred earlier, of the Ministry of Finance for the Solidarity Fund, which involved control over the period 2005-2016, had this finding, not even more or less, twenty-two important findings." Mr Mavrotas mentions them in detail, and he obviously considers the Ministry of Finance to be valid. I felt the need to pass on these positions to you, because I hear the majority Members continue to talk about the need for good management, it was one of the arguments this morning on age, although it had nothing to do with it. Good management, however, also applies to all aspects of public life and, of course, to your Ministry. I therefore come to the Minutes and the statement by Mr Mavrota. Not to blame the other parties, I simply pointed out the speeches made by Mr Javarra and Mr Mavroy because they are the majority. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Marilissa Xeno-Giannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I conclude because it is not a scandal that SYRIZA plays, but the government of SYRIZA had at that stage, since there was a finding, to pass it on to justice. I believe that you, too, should let justice do its job. It is an issue that the newspaper "Kathimerini" has shown, of course, that the newspaper "Kathimerini" is far from close to SYRIZA. I put in the Minutes an indicative post last month. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, sport is certainly an important activity and a right to support, it concerns young people, the exercise, health and unions in local communities, it concerns all these issues through an integrated policy. We, Minister, are here to contribute positively to everything we consider to be positive - and we have also proved it in this bill - but at the same time, as Dedicated Opposition, we must support whatever we consider to be unconstitutional and may create a problem in terms of democratic rights or democratic functioning of unions, and of course, in matters of transparency and good management. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr. Xinoyannakopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, a special ministerial amendment has been distributed to specialists from Mr Stakoura, Mr Theodorikos and Mr Aygeakis, under a general number 89 and a specialist 2. Soon you will be able to take it and those of you who are present. In fact, this is a new wording - in essence, I imagine - of Article 14 on the establishment plan and the staff of the ILO. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u281	If you'll excuse me, it's the provision that I mentioned earlier. It concerns the workers of the ILO who will be transferred to the General Secretariat of Sports and expected it from the Ministry of Finance and the General Accounting Office of the State. So now we're full and there's no change until further notice. Hopefully we won't have anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u282	Mrs Christidou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u283	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill on sport, which, after the meetings of the committee, changed to some of its main points, which demonstrates how far-reaching legislative advancement had been made and how right SYRIZA and the rest of the opposition to their criticism of the articles of the draft law. The New Democracy is trying to restore the situation to the before 2015 data, just as it does in all areas, education, rights, labour, welfare, everywhere. You don't hide it. It is proudly declared by the rapporteurs of the various bills. In this case, your agony to reinstate the mechanisms that have eroded Greek sport for years has led you to legislation that has deviated from the basic rules of national law and have even violated European legislation. So you have developed luckily in a number of things. We are therefore condemning your curiosity, but we are pleased to accept several of the legislative improvements that are not just legislative, but fundamental changes. We are still, of course, obliged and obliged to be against Article 7, which suspends the provisions of Law No4603, the Royal Royal Decree, which inhibits the gender quota in the antiquities of unions and associations. The government's 'allergies' are also known for issues and policies relating to gender equality. It suspends the voting ban by a representative that we, the SYRIZA government, have had. It suspends the introduction of a low crusade rate. It shall suspend the introduction of a second ballot. It inhibits the simple analogue system as an election system, another known as 'allergies'. Even in the unions, you're afraid of her. It shall suspend the ban on the representation of a union in the antiquities of the association by means of a proxy in order to continue the phenomenon of white authorisations and seal unions. You are so completely opposed to any provision to strengthen and deepen democratic procedures and transparency, you are so afraid that the clientele-plated chains will collapse, which for years, with your blessings, have been sucking off public subsidies, but also black money, which is moved behind your thick words and their ammunition about sporting ideals, which first priority was to restore all the limitations that SYRIZA was abolishing with Mr.4603. I would like to finish my reference to Article 7 and refer to the absolute silence of the new General Secretariat for Family and Gender Equality as regards the abolition of the gender quota in sport, even when Greece, on the basis of the report of the European Institute for Gender Equality, is in the last place, as regards women, who are in positions of responsibility. For the rest of the articles, SYRIZA has been placed, but I would like to speak in particular about Article 4, to which we also stand negatively on account of paragraph 2. We have expressed our deep concern, in association with what has been happening recently around us from the new government about the risk of the broad application of this provision, of any social protest actions involving people with discreet groups. While there is no such provision for cases of very serious offences that are well known, for reasons that the last criminalist, especially for fans, is aware of, we are creating a different system for collecting and processing personal data, which can be used selectively. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, how you use the material from private cameras and cell phones is a very dangerous story and we invite you to rethink the saint you are about to open and to what adventures and dangers of pro-transmission interpretations you are going to put justice in our country. I could refer to the other sports articles. But they spoke in a documented manner with colleagues from SYRIZA. I am therefore going directly to Article 19. We ask you with perseverance for his withdrawal and we tell you directly. The only reason you have brought Article 19 is to cover the scandal with the fund of mutual assistance from the Ministry of Culture and Sport, a scandal, which you and the Minister, unfortunately, did not see today being present, that you did not know it, but you do not have the knowledge of today, even though the evidence that has now come to justice is overwhelming. We are at a stage of criminal prosecution for six felonies to seventeen fund members who have previously run this fund and some of them are extremely well known to your Minister. With the arrangements of the previous government of SYRIZA, the fund gained transparency and accountability. The fund acquired a new statute, which provides for a general meeting of the employees of the Ministry, which will elect the board and an election committee, which will control the administration and which will have a major impact on its resources from the contributions of its members and an additional grant of up to EUR 30,000 per year from the Ministry's Directorate-General of Finance for cultural events. In this way, the fund has been thoroughly refined and has become an estate of the Ministry's own officials, with the aim of real mutual assistance. And what are you doing? You appoint another director about a month ago, increase the number of members of the board of directors of the fund and ultimately, despite the positions of your partner, you do not manage the cover you desire. You move on to the dissolution of the fund, hoping that this will allow for the loss of documents and evidence for the part, which has been done for many years, your years before 2015. And you're just doing this, because at this party they participated very high officials of your party and you think that's how you'll protect them. But expose yourself in a very obvious way. We sincerely warn you that this approach will turn against you. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that we are not surprised at what the New Democracy has brought by hand with this bill, nor by its efforts, of course, to make the white, black and vice versa. It's something that's been used to it lately. We see it every day for four and a half months now. In the same contempt for the law many have ruled, so in the past. However, the student uprising of November 1973, which we will honour in the streets of Athens, reminds us how easily, like a pile of cards, any arrogant power can collapse. And one more thing: Will some of your Ministers admit when - Mr Voridis, Mr Georgiadis and others on the far right wing - the truth? Will they answer the question whether there were or were not dead in the Polytechnic? Because we believe that there have been, ladies and gentlemen. There were! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u284	Thank you very much. Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution has the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u285	Thank you very much, Mr President. Before I enter the bill, Minister, you will allow me, representing our parliamentary group, to give some answers to what you said before you begin your speech. You spoke about the Greek President's show and you said, too - I was surprised to hear that Mr. Velopoulos had to be here. Remind me, Lord! Since when do the political leaders have to be present at all sittings, I don't know! I would like to say to you, Mr Aygeakis, that the only political leader who was found today in this Chamber to honour you was Mr Velopoulos. At least you should have appreciated that before you talk about show. He told you so much. Many of these were complaints. You spoke thirty-six minutes and you didn't answer anything he said to you and said in general, but you indulged yourself into a cheap attack saying something about show. Mr. Velopoulos should have left, Mr. Aygeakis, despite coming and honoring you. And the Greek Parliamentary Group also honours you, because eight of its ten Members - together with its President who left - are here today for your bill. And you know why Mr. Velopoulos left? It'll look very strange to you. I know. Because it works! He's a political leader, but he works, you know. He's got regular work to do, and he's working. And you know why it works? To have money. And you know why? In order not to depend on any big-time player, by any big-hearted, to have no buttons, friendships, loan and sponsors. That's what he's working for, Mr. Ausgaki. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I know you recognize your mistake. He was the only political leader who gave this present today to honor you and your bill, as we do from the committees up to today. Violently and firmly, to come to today's bill, the curse of every Greek Undersecretary of Sports. It's like a thriller. I understand Mr. Ausgeakis. They are the two large gangranes, they are the two major diseases, which have to deal with: violence and steadfastness. And, unfortunately, Greece, our country, our country, to tell them as things are and not to get lost in articles, are not innocently dovered either in the part of violence, nor in the part of the group. Our championships, especially as long as we're in charge, are dirty. It's over and over! Group factors have taken political forgiveness and set up games without any consequence. It's over and over! I have told you many examples in committee. I'm not staying here because I don't have much time. Yuventus of thirty-five titles fell a charge, Hoytzer in Germany, etc. We've been through this. I remember as it is now, Mr Ausgeakis - and I sincerely want to find a solution to this issue - in early December 2004 - we will be going 15 years back - in the game Panionios - Tbilisisi power - you will remember that as well - a 5-2. It was all Europe at the time. Fifteen years have passed since then. I haven't liked anything since. It was other times, of course. They were innocentr. Now, really, gangsters have been. I remember the late President of UEFA, Johanson, who told a Greek television show in 2006 that the Panionios - Tbilisi Power was manipulated. From that 2004 game, ladies and gentlemen, Greeks and Greeks, until today -2019 - "SPORTS RADAR" - is the company, working with UEFA - has produced over three hundred 50 Greek teams files, which are considered suspects. Three hundred fifty files! Not one, not ten, not two hundred. Three hundred fifty files - make the picture a little bit - with suspect matches. Nothing's happened. A deadly virus of sporting that steadfast races. Honestly I wonder what it does to you, dear Minister, to believe you've found the medicine. I have heard you say that you have very high ambitions. I'm honest with you. But be careful if you have a low flight. In 2017, the Temporary Management Committee of the NCA argued that there is a Greek team, involved in suspect struggles 16 times and fourteen times more. Somewhere in the ministry drawers are these complaints. They've seen too much of my eyes in processions for suspect matches at Football League, the second national category. They were describing - listen! - in a very polluting way of the sains, club representatives and group players, who bet live. At that time when the match was in progress, they were sitting on their laptop team bench and bet on things. They gave them orders to lose with big scores, and if they didn't listen, they were forced to hand over their cell phones to the locker room, because they were afraid that in the locker room, in the half-time, they would be set up by the players themselves, that they would go, that is, and play something else. So whoever disagreed with the setting, left the locker room and didn't play the game. All this is the cruel reality. They're not bourgeois myths. It's the hard reality! Minister, I hope you know where you're getting involved. Your consultants have informed you that here the monster is true. I shall mention Raul Bravo's example. A very big player came from Real Madrid in Greece. We all admired him. Patron of Olympiacos, Mars, Veroia. He was convicted to his homeland, Spain, as the game organization brain. And for this, the British company "STARLIZARD", which analyzes thousands of data on various games and controls the betting activity, identified at least eight suspect actions by Mr Raul Bravo. You're gonna tell me, okay, are these happening? They can. That's all they do. There's no more going on. And always in front of this beast, a Greek Undersecretary of Sport watches the trains pass and thinks it will be able to catch the beast. And now you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Minister, and you say that you will deal with this huge issue with the Macolin Convention. First of all, let me say that the Macolin Convention is over five years old. In this five-year period the global race manipulation circuit has evolved. So we, Macolin, and they will party to us, Minister! And we go to the other topic now, that of violence: Fight against violence in sports spaces. Where should I start? Honestly, where should I start? Every part of my brain is flooded by information about sports violence. Endless broadcasts, guests, panels, Ministers, State Secretarys, journalists, everything. Whatever you want. I have lived through 50 "black pages" of Greek sport, because when incidents occur, what do we say? "Another "black page" of Greek sport was written yesterday..." etc. They're the clichés they sell. I've had interviews with referees, who have been beaten, trampling, arson and gone by saying. I've seen factors breaking in the locker room, threatening gods and demons. I've seen agents with revolvers on the belt and irons on the cradle warning the other with cement. We've heard that, 'I'll peek you out.' And even more worrying is that the factors themselves are the ones who have the economic fate of this country in their hands. They control big companies, control media, control everything. Minister, I would like to say that it is difficult to deal with violence, because sometimes we are also subject to customer relations that we may have with voters, etc. It was this case in September 2014 that you defended or, if you wish, you were interested in learning, because I am fair, for your team Herodotus in Crete, if and when his sentence will fall into those sad episodes with the National, where we mourned a victim, Katsoulis. So we had death. So it's very difficult. I would also like to say that the wonderful world of Greek football, Minister, looks like an action movie. He's got everything inside. In particular, Greek referees can, unfortunately, be done. We have experienced incredible situations: bombs, attacks, fires in shops, "double" on the field at the time of the race, spray attacks, attacks on a referee seminar. Have you ever measured the number of officially recorded attacks on Greek referees? It's only thirty-three quarantine attacks over the last ten years. The last victim was Jelus, who the President also mentioned in his speech a moment ago. Can we take a look at those spooked drawers, what happened with the Jelus case? That is the question of starting to put the water in the groove, because it was good what you said, Mr. Ausgeakis. I'm really talking to you, I'm with you, and we're with you. Who doesn't want to fight violence? Who doesn't want us to watch full of stadiums? Who doesn't want to live a fairy tale? However, what we want and how we can deal with it. Thank you very much. I have more to say, I really just respect colleagues' time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mr. Arsenis from Merra25 has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u287	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a very sad fact. Ms. Mendoni chose the event for the Communication of Support Actions for the Capital of Culture in Elefsina to announce that the issue of the proclamation of "PYRKAL" as a historic site and of its buildings is resurrected at the Central Council of Modern Monuments. In fact, he falsely stated that the decision had never been signed by the previous government. That is why I am tabling the decision in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why does Mrs Mendoni want this referral back? Because this is the place where the fully privatised ELPE want to expand. This is the protection zone for the city of Elefsina from ELPE. What interests does it serve? You put the names on them. I would like to talk, however, about Article 19 concerning the Ministry of Culture, namely the Ministry of Culture Solidarity Fund. It is a very dark case, as in the name of the officials of the Ministry of Culture some have misused public money. And it is a darker provision, which is presented here today by Article 19. The case is dark because since 2002 the fund was founded, when it was the Minister of the Ministry's Secretary-General, until 2016, when he began to investigate his finances, he received public money, a percentage of the revenue from the archaeological sites and museums. Any smuggling, therefore, which is currently being investigated by the prosecutor and prosecuted for five felony, is a matter of public money. The fund served the children's station of officials from the Ministry of Culture, the payment of camps and loans - assistance to employees in need. Only those were his activities, which are necessary and practiced. But it was the window. Behind these activities other money routes were hidden. I am simply pouring out a few: loans and aids to employees who have never received them, not even knew that they had applied, a hundred and forty-two cases so far, corresponding to about 300,000 euros, money going to meet the needs of the federation of workers - travel, coffee, furniture, and nothing to do with the real needs of the workers - EUR 3 million. Let us remind you here that it is forbidden to co-finance trade unions by their employer. Recruitment of staff for the needs of the Minister's office, when Mr Samaras was Minister, obviously beyond any legality of recruitment. In 2007, a million euros for overemployment payments at ministerial offices. He went with the signature of the Secretary-General from the fund directly to the federation's account. EUR 171,000 for the painting of the children's station, according to the invoices, which have been made public, the olive-colouring of the wall has been charged EUR 135 per square metre. This and much more was done by a fund run by certain trade unionists, a specific party to which Mrs Mendoni belongs. Obviously in agreement with the political leaderships of the Ministry of Culture, both PASOK and New Democracy. And now that all this has come to light and is being investigated by justice, the Minister for Culture comes, in consultation with the federation whose members are controlled for this waste, and proposes the liquidation of the fund in operation. I mean, trying to cover up this case. The provision, which provides for something unprecedented in law, which is directly contrary to the Civil Code, which provides that a fund is liquidated after its operation is stopped and then liquidated. The procedure of the Civil Code for entities of this type therefore provides that the organization is first resolved and then liquidated. In fact, there is already Law 4598/2019 which does not - and rightly so - abolish the government, according to which its kindergarten and staff are going to the Ministry of Culture, as is the cost of paying camps. Instead of going through the Ministry and making payments with full transparency, you come here and say they will remain in the mutual fund until it is cleared. How, then, can a clearing body function properly and what is hidden from it? In our opinion, and in my opinion, the feasibility of the controls being stopped is, for a very simple reason, concealed. One of the first things the Minister did is to replace the director of the fund that was the one that haunted the cases that came out of the judiciary. Two weeks ago, on November 1st, a ministerial decision was made to change the composition of the fund board and restore control over the same trade unions, many of whom are accused of abuse and are the ones controlled by justice. For the same reason you will define with your own criteria and a clearer. I'm sorry, but it's called a cover-up. It is also characteristic that the President of the federation at the hearing of the bodies for the bill defended the liquidation and implied that the liquidator's conclusion would relieve them of responsibility. It is also characteristic that in a case of mismanagement of public money, the Ministry of Culture has not yet declared a political appeal to defend the interests of the public, whose money they have obviously put in the pocket. This could also be criminally supervising, the Ministry's attitude to this matter. Majority Members, with Article 19 of the bill - if you vote for it - vote for a provision that directly contradicts the Civil Code, i.e. with the legal lame procedure of liquidation in operation rather than the winding-up and liquidation. You are voting to stop the further investigation of a long scandal, mismanagement of public money, the elements of which have not yet reached justice. The purpose of the device is never to reach it. You are voting on to continue to finance public money an entity, supposed to be in liquidation, because of malicious corruption. We ask you not to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Mr Kotsos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u289	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, the government once again dares and I use this verb because the New Democracy, the Government, the Minister, opens two huge chapters for sport, two cancers for sport, which have been afflicting him for years and are standing before them with boldness, boldness and determination. And I am referring to the manipulation of the games and violence in the fields that, together with two other issues, poorly understood factorism and anabolic ones, are the four major problems of sport. And you know, the Malcolm Convention was signed by the SYRIZA government in 2016, but it didn't come for ratification in the House. It is now coming to open up these issues, as I have said before, the issue of manipulation of the games, which is a huge issue involving huge economic actors, moving huge amounts, dismantling consciences, setting up games within an international circle that runs the whole world and which is extremely difficult and to identify and dismantle. However, it is required to become the beginning and that is what the government is trying today, that is what Leuteris Aeggeakis is trying to do. And, of course, I note here that the issue of manipulation of the games, ladies and gentlemen, is not a phenomenon of modern sport. In 388 B.C.E. in the 98th Olympiada is recorded the first case of redemption by Thessaloniki Furniture, which purchased three of them, one of them former Olympian, Formionian, but the Greeks understood it, imposed a fine, as they imposed on each of them who tried to manipulate those games and through these fines they built those statues, the Zanes, who run the entrance of Olympia. And I think this is where it is worth mentioning the first listed athlete who refused to be bribed. He was a Spartan. And one of his teammates said to him: "Now what do you understand? What did you win?' And he with a lot of pride answered: "The honor of fighting beside my king." At this price each athlete has to have, every fighter taking healthy ideas in order to show up and distinguish himself within the courts and in the matches. But is that the reality? Obviously not. And while it is a common secret among us, even young children, even young people, who are in the middle of amateur toys, have unfortunately not been found in the boldness and determination to put the finger on the type of sunshine that the government is trying today with the specific draft law that it brings, which ratifys the convention, but which makes use of international and national experience and enables a series of structures and ministries to do so in order to achieve the best possible result. Because it is a reproach, not only for sport, but also for our democracy and for our society and for our political system, to tolerate such behaviour, which is going through messages wrongly and in a healthy part of society that has something to do with children who are involved in sport. And to come to the part of violence, another huge sport issue. Many will say that violence is intertwined with the nature of sport, because there is competition, because there is tension. But that is not the case, colleagues. Violence in sport usually applauds or manipulates it, if you like, to use an expression from the previous paragraph I spoke about, three parameters. One parameter is the factors, the other parameter is the poorly understood fans who intrude into the fan audience, and the third factor is poorly understood journalism, which, having the strength of the pen, the power of the microphone, operate opposingly and exacerbate the spirits within the stadiums. And you know, Europe for the first time dealt with the issue of violence after 1985, after the struggle in Hazel Liverpool with Yuventus, where we had thirty-nine victims, if I remember well. The first European Convention on the Combat of Violence was signed at that time, but it was the alarming difference with today's convention that it was simply limited to the fight against violence, while today's convention is facing violence with a positive sign, in an effort to promote the hospitality, safety of fans, the creation of a climate that is friendly among the teams. And you know, through this bill on substance, it's being welcomed, protected and created an emblem of protection to the healthy union, the healthy factor, the healthy fan club, because we're going to control the people involved in fan clubs. And it is the responsibility of the unions to do that, because they cannot give their name indiscriminately to enter the stores, used by the fans without controlling who comes in and who come out of them, through these clubs. And you know, it's very easy to infiltrate into fans, within the intensity of the struggle, elements that the only thing they have nothing to do with the fan feeling, but it's about tension, the problem, the creation of issues. I'm going to come up with a little bit on the subject of factors. Right, and open the window, get fresh air in. And I say this because I have heard almost all the Olympics express the worst words about the situation in certain federations, which are in fact manipulated by a system of election that is doomed and we must change it, Minister. We need to change it, because it's this system that reproduces the pathogen. And because I see that my time is running out, I must refer to a matter last, which has nothing to do with sport, it has to do with the anniversary of the Polytechnic, where we must pay tribute and glory to the fighters of the Polytechnic, honor and glory to the fighters of freedom and democracy, to pay tribute and glory to both the fighters of social security and social peace. And I'm telling you this because today I received a visit from the police officer who threw a grenade of defense in the cage outside of an embassy, was attacked, there was a terrorist attack, and unfortunately the leadership of the Ministry of Public Order of the previous government refused to recognise that he was the victim of terrorism. And I am calling here for the Stepma of today's Minister, Mr Chrysochide, to call upon this child, who even today brings the fragments of the grenades on his feet, in his soul, in his body, and to recognize the slightest, that he is the victim of terrorism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr. Kotso. Mr Lebanese, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Mr President. For the sake of briefness and because Mr Kotsos, but above all the Minister, I have been covered in the main arguments, if I may, I shall table my main speech in the Minutes. I just wanted to make a few brief comments on what has been said in the Chamber so far. Mr Velopoulos has made it inappropriate to say many times in his speech that the government is controlled by economic interests. The Government of New Democracy is only controlled by the sovereign people who elected it, and its President and Prime Minister, whom he also complained, refers to the Greek people and we return the charges immediately. Mrs Sakova, who, as I have said before, has raised - among other things - the issue of Olympic facilities, which I think we all have a particular sensitivity, and we are sure that, in addition to this draft law, the political leadership, which shows its will and its willingness to correct the bad texts and conflict with past establishments, will look at and resolve issues in this direction, because we are all in pain. I agree with Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou that we should support good legislation and of course we should not legislate on Friday afternoons. It is obviously a basic principle of the parliamentary philosophy of political liberalism, which we are expressing as an exception, and it is also a basic principle of our President, who from the role of the parliamentary representative many times had been placed in this direction. But there were many bills, which had to be passed quickly. So some things were made more vexed. That one's not in it. I think that there has been an exhaustive consultation in society, there has been an exhaustive debate in the committee. The political leadership has accepted, I think, a great deal of what you have proposed, and with a genuinely democratic background, it has proceeded with this bill. Nor did it bring any amendments. One amendment came from the Change Movement and the only reason why it came to us this afternoon is because we have the programming, which has been agreed by all the wings on the top parliamentary procedure of discussing the Constitution and voting for the Constitution, so it could not enter another moment. I wanted to stand up to something that a little disturbed me, which the SYRIZA rapporteur said. He accused the Minister and the government of a misdemeanor, telling us that we are introducing unreasonable provisions in this bill, and that puts you across the street, while you would vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u292	We wouldn't vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u293	No provision is irrelevant. You'd support some of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u294	We would show the international convention better.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u295	Well done. However, none of these provisions, which have come, are irrelevant to this ministry. On the contrary - very briefly I looked after after your speech and I will table them in the Minutes - I have three sanctions here, to which you have brought some twenty amendments completely irrelevant. Let's not waste time, you'll see them later. Be a little more careful, though, when you come to criticise us for poor legacy. Finally, I would also like to support the absence of your Members, because the reason why we have arrived so late is because you raised the top issue of unconstitutionality. If it were, indeed, top of your conscience as a party and your MPs, they would be here to support it. They are unjustified and we can combine it with the absence of Mr. Tsipras the other day in the debate on the Criminal Code, where while putting a roll-call vote to show how wrong our choice was, he chose to be absent and to make party speeches across Greece. I hope that the way you have prevailed as a government and the violation of the parliamentary order, which you have followed then, does not continue to follow you in the chairs of the opposition. In particular this day, which is today, I would like to remind you once again that this sacred Chamber and this parliamentary procedure are the main pillars of democracy, for which you are concerned. So it is good to serve her with her rules and, as far as we are concerned, we will also try to convince the ministers to be absolutely consistent from now on with Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u296	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u298	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, I imagine you want the floor, to answer Mr Lebanese for his last abhorrence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u299	Yes, Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u300	I don't know, because he's after Mr. Vernardakis, who is able to answer, too, do you want to let him speak or do you want to precede?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u301	For just a minute, Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u302	Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, I will be very brief. I think we honor the National Representation and our democracy day that is, just by respecting the Constitution. It cannot be criticised because we have shown that there was an issue of unconstitutionality. And to his credit, the Minister withdrew this provision, admitting there was a problem. I would therefore say, Mr Levane, that your position was not correct, as was your criticism of the Chief of Anti-Population. The Chief of Representation has his own programme and priorities, and that does not mean that there is no respect for the process. This always applies to all parties' leaders and the Prime Minister, who, after all, did not come to other legislative procedures. What does that mean? So I would say, day when it is today, that we are a little careful when we talk about such matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u304	We're all judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u306	I imagine that you want the floor now for the withdrawal of the order. Let us not catch a general political debate, who is here and who is not. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u307	If you will allow me, I will repeat that the procedure that we have followed was meticulous. There was dialogue, discussion. We've recorded and processed all the things that have been filed. You are making a mistake, I told you for the second time, and that is why I asked for the floor to be corrected if you allow me. We didn't realize it was a mistake and we dropped it. Not at all. We recasted. The terms of office are specific, up to three presidential and two other executive positions and up to seventy-one years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u308	I referred to retrospectiveness...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u309	For retrospectiveness in the wording we made the correction, don't get confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u310	Yes, in the wording of the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u311	In words. But as far as the substance is concerned, it remains as it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u312	But on constitutionality, I spoke, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u313	I repeat that I have provided you with relevant documents and reports. There is no question of that. To correct, to improve, that is to say, a proper and proper process of discussion, consultation and co-legislation is not something superficial, nor should it be necessary, so far as you are concerned, to understand it as weakness.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u314	Your honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u315	No, Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, we've improved by reprinting in the trunk, in the core. We have no doubt that we are doing the right thing and there is no question of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u316	Well, the issue of constitutionality or unconstitutionalism was discussed this morning and as far as Parliament is concerned, it was resolved. What happens next is another story. Secondly, no one raised the point that the procedure, to come to Parliament's plenary session, had a problem. I think there's been an exhausting conversation. The fact that 15 November fell, Friday night, all together, is happening too. The oldest ones we remember. Mr. Aegakis remembers too. Mr. Vernardakis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. I want to make a break in my speech, too. I think that the main reason why we are currently reaching out to date is the fact - from the Members' side - that we have in the programme at 9 a.m. the start of legislative work and at 9 a.m. and the topical questions. The topical questions went up to about 11:30 - 12:00, we had the ritual for the Polytechnic and I think that's the main reason. Don't forget that. Typical, but remember it and make no reproach in general. I don't know what it's because, but anyway...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u318	At 11:30, it was the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u319	Okay, it doesn't matter. I am not going to talk about the provisions of the Ministry of Sport, I am here to talk about the famous article 19, which refers to the Ministry of Sport and the mutual fund, and I want to say some serious things. I regret, however, that the Minister responsible is absent today throughout the procedure and I do not think that this is a small matter. Before I begin, however, on Article 19, I would like to tell you something about 20, the staff of the Archaeological Resources and Expropriations Fund, where I read that, in order to assist the work of the Chairman of the Management Board, four posters of posted officials are recommended under private law contract. Let me remind you here that four post-call officials don't even have the Members. Four post-call officials do not have the Secretary-General either. I do not know if the Undersecretaries have the right to four retirees and, in any case, I would like to congratulate the President of the Archaeological Resources Fund, which must have enormous access to the government's administrative and legislative mechanism, so that it can pass an article which increases by four the positions of posted officials, in order to help it in its work. A legal person, i.e. public law, imposes on the relevant Minister for Legislation to increase positions that will help it. Mrs Méndonis is not here, but she should have come to us to answer that question. We now go to the main issue concerning the mutual fund. Now listen, regardless of the persecution of the seventeen officials, who obviously have the presumption of innocence, and we must be serious, we must see the institutional process. What do we have here? We've got the trigger uterus. Note: A association of natural persons - a association of natural persons, I repeat - is formed and financed by a ministerial decision from a percentage of the resources of the Archaeological Resources Fund. In other words, we have public money, which is distributed every year to private individuals, and that figure is between 1.5% and 3.5%, depending on the Minister, because it is determined on the basis of a decision of the Minister concerned. What natural faces? No one knows, no one ever found out. What assembly of these natural persons? Nobody knows. Which management bodies? Nobody knows? What accountability? Nobody knows. This is called trade union money and the mutual fund was a mint, it was equivalent to other funds. It was a model of formation. Here they deserve congratulations to the inspiring, whether they were politicians or trade unionists. They deserve real congratulations, because they have found a mechanism to produce trade money, not political money, they have found a model of forming the most extreme corporatist trade unionism and, of course, they have built a model of interdependence between political leadership and trade union leadership in this ministry. This is the scandal womb. So we have reached the public money, which goes with a ministerial decision to private individuals, today those private individuals are being accused of setting up a criminal organisation. It's one of five felonies. It is not the only one, but imagine the'recommendation of a criminal organization'. And if anyone thinks that someone was hiding behind this process, behind this story, I would like to remind you that the new National Transparency Authority, which you set up after July, confirmed and confirmed this process, stipulating that this investigation must proceed. Why? Because we had forgery on time, we had fake loans that some people would receive without knowing and allegedly believe in their accounts, i.e. the officials of the Ministry of Culture. Remind me, too, of the other one. First of all, this story has been whispering for many years. At some point in the General Accounting Office of the State and the Financial Control Agency, it makes a check and finds about twenty violations, irregularities in this body. This agency is not answering from there and a process of investigation is under way. Let me remind you of something we don't remember, but I want to testify. In 2011, while we have an association of natural persons, that is, a private company in some way, which, for the management needs of the Ministry of Culture, employs officials, these employees, while private employees, are paid by the Single Payments Authority. In other words, in the middle of memoranda, in the middle of availability, a magic hand passes by some officials and puts them under the security of the public sector and of the public service. That's how the bucket begins to develop the development of research, so that today we can get to the indictment of prosecutions of the five felonies. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs Sakhara Sakhara, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council,]] So what is the Ministry of Culture and the Minister not coming here today? She tells us she's cleaning up. But if he's clearing up, why does he change the director-general two months ago which has, in fact, contributed to revealing with various facts? By the way, I would like to tell you that when the composition of this group, the association of natural persons, by the previous Minister, was changed, it was tampered with in the office. And the Director-General didn't want to deliver for a month. They had locked up the offices of the house where they were housed, and they didn't deliver anything. It took many interventions and negotiations to come out with the judicial authorities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Why change the board of directors and the composition if it goes into liquidation? Why should an employee of the Ministry of Culture be designated as a liquidator? This again? At a time when we have a trade-money production, an entity has been created there, which, in fact, was traded over time with various systems and subsystems within the Ministry of Culture, what simpler to think 'Why do you not put an employee of the Ministry of Finance with these qualifications'? Why should the clearer be produced through this administrative hierarchy? So we all have the suspicion that he's going to cover up the frauds that have been done? For the protection of the Minister immediately - why is the clearer's request or the clearer's status so defined? Why are you subsidizing the fund? This fund is subsidized. Read here in Article 3 of the 19: "... to cover all kinds of costs of liquidation as well as regular operating and exceptional expenses of the fund under liquidation, this is financed by the Ministry of Sports and Culture...". But according to the Civil Code, when we've been cleared, it means stopping every operation and the clearer has to solve the loose ends, see what he had to take, what he had to give. It stops every function. Here, then, we have an oxymomile: not only do we put a clearer, but we grant him upwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Comrade, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u321	I'm sorry. In two or three minutes I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u322	It's too much. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u323	Clearing, as you know, is a necessary consequence of the dismantling of a legal person and ending any operational activity. So, here we are, obviously, in a process - what was called by various speakers - 'cleaning in operation', which, in fact, seeks to confuse, cover, cover up, acquit a very serious judicial investigation. I do not understand and would like to ask the Minister - if he was here - why is this bureaucracy in the fund and the trade union? What does he have to gain from this transaction? It's really a question. Second question: Will the competence of disciplinary law be exercised to her? In view of the criminal prosecution, will it exercise its disciplinary powers, which may reach the temporary suspension of the status of civil servant to those who are being investigated for such crimes? It is a question to the New Democracy, to the Ministers of the New Democracy. Because it wasn't her building that story.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Colleague, you're having trouble with me. You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u325	I'm sorry, but I think it's essential.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u326	It's essential, but it's been ten minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u327	Why do the Ministers for Culture of the New Democracy remain silent in this case? Why is that silence? Our Parliamentary spokesman also read Mr Javarra's position. I am sure the President of Parliament, who was the Minister of Culture, would have the same objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u329	I'm ending with a phrase. We'll leave nothing that won't be investigated. Let no one imagine that this story, this mint of economic, political and trade-union corruption, which was created at the Ministry of Culture, will let it pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u330	Me too, Mr. Comrade. As far as the Minister is concerned, I do not want to justify that, because I think it is a legitimate absence of her today, she was in the committee and you could have asked her there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u331	Madam President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u332	You're welcome, Minister. You have the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u333	Welcome and clarify it because Mrs Mendoni was here, admittedly, at the meetings of the Standing Committee on Morphic Affairs, which was asked for many of what you said and put here today, beyond your fellow SYRIZA Members. All of them have been answered, in my opinion enough. So, in order to avoid shadows, anyone who wants to get the answers to the questions you asked, the minutes of the House, the committees, are at their disposal. Don't let go, please, peaks and create impressions. You're right. You have a point of view. You have your responsibilities as a previous government. You know that very well. However, at this time, let us go further in the debate, because we are concerned about the substance here. Well, you did, I repeat. You have every right, Mr. Comrade. You have passed from this position, a responsibility position, and you know very well the responsibilities, the programme, but also the burden.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u334	Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u335	Allow me a moment, please. You took ten minutes and took time from your colleague. I can't give you the floor. I will not give you the floor, because they are about thirty of your colleagues, and the procedure must be over. So I would ask Mr Andriano to speak for seven minutes. I would ask you, as long as you can, to keep the time with the reasonable margin we always give you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u336	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill of particular importance for sport, including provisions for more effective treatment of sport violence and manipulators, for modernising and restoring the organization of sports federations, for making use of our Olympics, as well as for the institutional facilitation of the use of Olympic and other sports facilities. I would therefore like to highlight the positive and constructive climate, firstly, which described the meetings of the committee responsible as having worked out this draft law. This is another proof that, beyond our ideological origins and our individual differences, issues such as sport - and not only - allow us, but also dictate the search for the common place and consensus, because sport, like culture, are areas that must unite us. This, after all, has also been the firm aim of my action, during my term of office at the Ministry of Culture and Sport. Serving these major areas of public action, without bumps and strangles, solving the existing problems and ensuring a substantially better outlook for mass, amateur, professional sport, championship and our culture. The draft law, which we are debating today, goes on to many points in the direction we had at the time, when it came to preparing and drafting the sports law at the time, after the hard work of the legislature and in consultation with all stakeholders and citizens. A legislative initiative, which, as we know, was ready and would have been introduced if the country - as the rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Burnos, but also the Minister, Mr Aggenakis - had not been brought to an early elections in early 2015. I would therefore like to point out that today's bill is first of all the provisions on more effective treatment of sporting violence. The possibility of using already published audiovisual material and extending the limits of the application of the criminal provisions, together with the full denomination of tickets, will be a powerful institutional weapon for the definitive elimination of this wound in Greek society. And of course, a limit of the number of terms for the federations' management bodies must be set, a provision that was also in the sports bill that we had prepared then and then legislated, in 2019, and the SYRIZA government. So we heard these days say that federations are home and only up, about that's what they said, they're gonna get out of there. We heard a lot of people calling for self-regulation, while in decades they have done nothing about it, when we know that the federations have been running the federations for thirty and forty years. So this hypocrisy and ownership culture must finally be stopped, because all these people are managing the Greek people's money with subsidies for all these years of millions of euros. And in many cases they have not been treated as appropriate to our athletes, federations and unions and do not respect the athlete as they should have respected him. I would remind the House here of the reports made in the Committee on Morphics by Olympians, by athletes and by the statements made by the Minister, who read just now in plenary. And while the state gives so much money for sport, for athletes, they all know that families are kneeling financially to support their children in sport. And I say these in their name, because during my term of office at the Ministry, I chose as having to stand up to such interests - and you know well what I am talking about - without even counting the political cost at the moment. As I have also sent to the relevant Court of Auditors of the Ministry and to the relevant audit services of the Ministry of Finance for audits in the federations for which I believe, Mr Minister, that it should at last be informed, that Parliament and the citizens should be informed. At some point you need to take up these documents, see exactly what has been done with the checks, because here we are talking about millions of euros managed by the federations and see if they have been managed properly. So these checks must have been carried out in five years since I believe, and you should inform us of the results. We should finally see the direct grant of associations, without intermediaries, since it is of course clear which one is actually active and not union seals. We must therefore all support healthy sport, breathe our athletes and not drown in some who are in the administrations of the federations forty and forty years. Finally, I should like to refer to the forecasts which facilitate the use of sports facilities. This is a huge problem and a demand for decades. Suffice it to point out that when I took up my duties at the Ministry, dozens of sports facilities, including the OAS, were arbitrary, which essentially meant that every effort to use was extremely negative. And we started the procedures for the legalisation of these arbitrary sports facilities, which Mr Kontonis and Mr Vassilidis have, of course, continued. I am glad, therefore, that today we are regaining the thread to make more efficient use of these valuable sports infrastructures. Here, I should like to mention the agreement that we signed with Giannis Skouros, the then Regional Administrator, with whom she agreed after a meeting I had with Mrs Rena Dourou, so that the OAS needs to be maintained with the resources of the region already available. I do not know how far this agreement has gone. However, you need to see it, there were these resources, and I believe that this intervention - maintenance in the OAS must be done. I'm closing, just like I started. Sports and culture must unite us. We owe it to Greek women and Greeks, children and young people who are engaged, to our champions and Olympians, who make us proud. In a spirit of consensus, but also of seriousness with regard to problems and challenges, we can and must move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Matutes from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u338	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, by tabling this bill in the framework of the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention, signed at Maglingen/Macolin in 2014, a package of measures to prevent, deal with and combat dating phenomena and problems, observed not only in the field of Greek sport, but also in the field of European sport. These are the preconscious struggles and violence on the stadiums. These problems do not exist only in our country, they are problems, which unfortunately upset the structures of modern European societies, sometimes to a greater extent and sometimes to a lesser extent. The government seems to me, Minister, to have no illusions and illusions about the easy or radical resolution of these problems. But it proves in practice its will to deal with them, bringing forward a modern, realistic, applied and reformable institutional framework that is primarily socially acceptable if not imposed. Greece is one of the first countries to ratify this convention and it could not be different, because we as Greeks pay particular attention to sport, and that is not only because it is a component of Greece's culture, the birthplace of the Olympic Games and the Olympic ideal, but also because we are mostly napped with the saying "s of healthy mind in the body". We want sport for many, and especially for the next generations, in order to develop them healthyly and physically and spiritually. We want to nurture our children with ideals, such as noble speech, "fighting", recognizing the value and excellence of the other. Sadly, however, news of violence on the stands, on the streets, on stacked toy money, but also on doping that is heard by ages at the beginning of adolescence, blackening the picture, graying the landscape and blurring the prospect of something better. Preconscious and established matches are considered one of the greatest threats to sport today. This problem has now acquired the urgency for public authorities, sports and law enforcement services worldwide, because they undermine the values of sport as is integrity, fair play and respect for others, but also because they are related to circuits of organised crime on a global scale. At the same time, however, they are the reason for the removal of fans and supporters from the organized sport, a sector which represents almost 2% of the gross domestic product of the European Union and you, Minister, have raised it in your position. Therefore, the overall fight against corruption and zero tolerance to such phenomena are the primary objective of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and is an urgent need for the country. With regard to the phenomenon of land violence, this concerns sports and political authorities throughout the world and is the subject of studying several sciences, such as sociology, psychology, forensics and legal science, with a view, in particular, to understanding the relationships between sport, violence and society. The two football tragedies in the late 1980s, Hazel's report of thirty-nine dead and four hundred injured and that of Hilsborough, four years later, with ninety-six dead and two-six wounds, finally changed the map for dealing with the incidents of fanatic violence and hooliganism European after having levelled the English football ego, obliging them to deal actively, politically above all, but also scientifically with the phenomenon of violence on the stadiums. With England mourning death a hundred and thirty - five fans and the injury of another six hundred in the early 1990s, the situation had reached its ends. After Hazel's tragedy, the government of that time, Mr. Margaret Thatcher, except for the modernisation of the land, forced the teams to issue ID cards to the fans. The measure, unfortunately, did not pay off, the fanatics passed control and acted uncontrollable on the platform, knowing they would stay unpunished. The situation changed for the best after the Hillsborough tragedy investigation and a report, submitted by Judge Taylor, made suggestions that led to the bosom, on which the new football culture was built in England and the rest of Europe. So Europe after Hazel has been called upon for the first time to deal seriously with the issues of violence in sports events and they had even been in a '88 fight for three hundred arrests! Since then, the countries have been facing the issues of fanatic violence other more drunken and stricter, other less repressive, but always by exploiting European experience in both the promotion of hospitality and the safety of fans on and off the ground. The phenomenon of violence, unfortunately, is a structural feature of the formation of societies. But the situation is getting worse. That is why modern life trends, depersonalization of relations, social isolation and analgesia, the burglary of the social fabric, competition, the atomic achievement, the lonely course without visions, goals and ideals make modern man, especially young man, vulnerable to the manifestation of violent behaviours. Prior to any reference to the issue of dealing with violence and hooliganism in Greece, it would be advisable to see the evolution of blind and uncontrolled fanatic violence, which has led us to mourn the last thirty years of human victims. Let us remember some of the dead who so unfairly and pointlessly died: in 1986 Charalambos Blonias lost his life by a flare. In 1991, Giorgos Panayiotou, 15, fell dead as well from a flare. In 1995, George Karnezis, a fan in Glyfada, was injured with sharp objects and died. In 2007 Michael Philopoulos was attacked by hooligan and lost his life. In 2011, Giannis Russakis was murdered in your homeland, Minister, at the Panghretio Stadium in Heraklion. In 2014 Kostas Katsoulis was beaten and left his last breath after two weeks of hospitalization. In recent years, from 2014 onwards, cases of sport violence, according to reports by the Ministry of Civil Protection, have increased and maintained their intensity, but fortunately without human victims. According to data from ELAS Headquarters, in 2015 twenty-seven records were formed, involving football episodes, in 2016, 12 policemen were injured during serious incidents that broke out in the Cup race between PAOK and Olympiacos, while on the day the Olympics-Anderlet fans of the Greek team attacked Belgian fans, with the best results known to them. The same happened in the Municipal Stadium of Rhodes. And now, recently, because of the dangers of incidents that coexistence of eternal opponents, who can turn the area around the field into a war zone, authorities have increasingly promoted the struggles in front of empty stands. Following research, the vast majority of the Greeks believe that the impunity of violence on the ground is the main cause of its perpetuation and blames the administrations of the teams and 50% of the fans for the fact that the frequency of the clashes has risen clearly in recent years and believe that the attitude of the authorities towards those who have been violence must be incomplete. I shall not repeat, Minister, the arrangements that you have rightly brought in very early time. I will not repeat them, and why you also said them thoroughly and thoroughly, but why I also subscribe to the non-legislative initiative in the afternoon of Friday. I will only congratulate you on this initiative. It is in the context of intensive European synergy to combat violence in sports events. I would also like to congratulate you on the other initiatives that you have developed and proved to be in the right direction by hearing the institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Haimaras has the floor from New Democracy and Mrs Dunia is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Your Honor. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the week that passed was rather difficult for violence and terrorism. Universities are ending, public order is being protected more effectively, terrorism is being punished more severely. It's Sports Violence, and I'd say it's about time. The Macolin Convention on the Prevention, Identification and Penalty, in any case of manipulation of sports games, Greece was one of the first countries to sign it. Finally, today, it comes for ratification in the Greek Parliament as part of the draft law to be voted on, and indeed to the satisfaction of everyone, it seems to have a broad consensus and acceptance. The following articles allow the Greek Police to carry out ticket controls in and out of sports facilities, as well as to use all appropriate technical means to prevent and investigate incidents of violence. So let us put aside what false concerns and put a perfect place, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to police-phobia, which is sowed from time to time. I would tell you that our fellow citizens are also the policemen who act in accordance with the law and with a strong sense of responsibility and duty towards society. Article 5 shall facilitate, in accordance with international directives, the organisational staffing of motor sports matches and the organisation of special games, such as archery. The control of the lawfulness of the regulations of sports clubs and associations and their alignment with international rules promotes Article 6, because anyway the organization does not harm anyone and is not dangerous. Uncontrolled violence is dangerous that blooms as long as rules and limits don't enter. The suspension of the arrangements for the antiquities of sports bodies under Law 4603/2019 is not arbitrary, but is intended to precede an organised consultation on the modern and integrated sporting law that our country needs. I come to Article 8 on which much has been said. The truth is that the article is working for self-evidentity, which I wonder how unions themselves do not see, at the same time as the European Union, the Council of Europe and the FIA themselves set the maximum ceiling in terms of terms at three times. Do we know better than any of them? And I wonder: will the sport world at last be activated and demand transparency in administrative procedures and modernisation, preventing those who insist on seeing sports ambitions and political careers? We leave behind the political indifference of abandonment of Olympic real estate, and let us leave aside the sterile analyses that have caused a stagnation or even a disappearance of major investment opportunities in recent years, with the result that public infrastructures have also lost thousands of jobs, real and not eight months of work, to be lost. Several of the anti-pollution colleagues have been mentioned on several occasions in commercialisation of sport through the transformation of the Greek Olympic Committee into a non-profit-making legal entity of private law. Honestly, I cannot understand that fear of this development. As a freelance professional, I can assure you of the exhaustive controls to which a legal person in the private sector is subjected from its establishment to its solution. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is the country that gave birth to the "fight", which established the Olympic Games. We say it, we hear it all the time. It is time, however, to proceed to acts and today's bill proceeds to brave changes, which New Democracy proves every day that it dares to do. The provisions to be adopted, in addition to the support of people who have fought hard for sport, making us proud around the world, have the support of any citizen who wants to see a fight without violence or without knowing the outcome in advance. I'm closing with one wish. This effort that today's government begins to lead to fields full of fans and children without fear, to lead to the return of Rali Acropolis, which will soon return to the earthly paths of my country, Minister. Allow me this report, because you know that I come from Fhaitia and I am entitled to be a man, who has grown up in the soil, in the dust and in the mountains of Rallie Acropolis, to assure you that local and regional government, the whole devastating people, is next to you in your attempt in 2020 to have the organization of Rallie Acropolis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u341	Thank you. Mrs. Dunia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u342	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be extremely brief. Today we are voting on a bill from the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which contains very important provisions, a bill designed to relieve sport in our country from violence and opacity, which, unfortunately, have been distinguished in recent years. As an ex-sporter, but also a mother of two children who are actively involved in sport, I am deeply sad at the situation with him and with the constant violent incidents in which I have also been witnessed several times. It is, for me, unnegotiable that sports spaces should be safe for both athletes and game viewers. The provisions of the draft law against violence in these areas are perhaps the most crucial in order to make the future of sport in Greece comparable to its history. Among other things, there is provision for sampling to be carried out on ticket holders for the sake of easier identification, for the extension of the local and time limits for the application of the criminal provisions of Article 41 of Law No.2725/1999 on its application and in acts of sporting violence which have purely fundamental motives and are carried out at a time and place not related to any sporting event, and for the facilitation of the existing provisions of the Sports Law on disciplinary sanctions, fines and restrictive conditions of clubs and organised fans, by setting up a register of teams, in conjunction with the rapid settlement of such criminal cases, so that they do not take all this year. Violence and sport are inconsistent, I would say, contradictory. Any violent incident within or outside lands should be punished as appropriate. At the same time as dealing with this phenomenon, it is urgent that there should finally be conditions of transparency in sports matches. Any racing effect should be fair and should be clearly due to the great effort of athletes. The ratification of the Macolin Council of Europe Convention, which is also the subject of this draft law, is surely to help prevent the manipulation of the games, which are directly linked to the "Standard". This is because, apart from preventing and punishing any such attempt, there is also a framework for cooperation and exchange of information between the competent state authorities, sports organisations and sports betting organisers. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of sport for the new generation is enormous. Sporters, not only the Olympians, but those who have been distinguished worldwide and European, are the best standards for our children, the standards of a healthy lifestyle, away from abuse, violence and lawlessness. With regard to sport, young people learn from an early stage that through systematic and intensive effort, all life objectives are feasible and that only then is worth achieving their goals, as high and difficult as they are, if they do so with their value and personal hardship. I would also like to add, of course, the support of the family. The New Democracy attaches great importance to sport and the promotion of the sporting ideal. It is determined to put an end to the phenomena of violence in sports spaces and not to show any tolerance to racing manipulation and it proves it in practice with this bill. Sport must finally take a high position in Greek society as a way of exercising the body, cultivating the spirit and realising the concepts of groupness, noble speech, justice, mutual respect, equality and solidarity. Thank you very much, and I hope I didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u343	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr. Tsigris from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing an important bill on field violence, a part of total violence. One wonders: Is violence on the ground special from violence in the family, in schools, in the streets, in everyday life, or is it the same social phenomenon, which needs a global approach? Violence is a holistic phenomenon and requires an overall approach, particularly in our time, which is fundamentally changing not only society but also violence, which is abstract. We now have many such tragic incidents, even in protected social enclaves, such as our family and schools, as well as the permanent phenomenon of violence in sports facilities. Modern football was born in the 13th century England. It has, however, been known throughout the world, when it was accepted by the upper social classes, especially in England again. That's what happened in the 19th century. Then the phenomenon of violence on the stadiums was also born. Where was she born? Again in England. Then he moved around the world. Today he's here, in our country. We are dealing with it throughout Greece, even in the smallest categories. We are witnessing an incident that often can cause serious socially pathogenic problems and lose lives. One wonders: What did he do in England, where is the mother of the birth of violence on the field, today not having a single incident? Anyone who watches a football meeting, even the top, in English cup or championship, sees that there are no wires, no police, and the fans sit quietly in their position. From there the line of the slope, to the point where the first viewer sits, there is a distance of one metre and yet, there is not a single paragound. What happened? All of a sudden, did English society change? Oh, no. The English state has changed its attitude. And how did it change? By voting for a realistic, socially acceptable and enforceable sports law. That's what the government does today. It brings an applicable, socially acceptable, but primarily effective draft law to deal with the problem of violence in the fields. Ladies and gentlemen, for those who do not know I am a forensicist. To borrow this scientific property, therefore, to tell you that all investigations into field violence are shocking. So we asked the fans what their attitude is? And what do they think are the causes that give rise to the problem of violence on the stadiums? And the vast majority of our fans have answered that impunity leads to the perpetuation of the problem and that the use of alcoholic beverages and narcotics - before a struggle - strengthens the execution of violence on the ground. And all that is believed by eight of the ten fans. What else are they telling us? They are responsible first and foremost for team administrations and then for sports newspapers that can sometimes rekindle passions. The synergy of many to deal with the phenomenon is therefore essential. Society, sports clubs and the state together must deal with the problem. The state is doing its duty today. He's bringing a law applicable to dealing with violence on the field. However, the administrations of the groups must do the same. It is not only enough to apply the nominal ticket, it is not enough to personalise the place that each fan sits, it is not just the intention of the legislator to tighten up the legal framework. Societies need to be part of it, too, and administrations need to be supportive. By this law, a strong signal is given to the Greek society that we are determined to deal with violence on the ground so that the violent incidents on the streets are now also in Greece a sad past and, of course, every family can attend a life-threatening sports meeting with its children. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Papakostas - Palioura from New Democracy has the floor now and Mr Kavvada is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Government shows particular determination and certainly has the corresponding political will to show zero tolerance to the pathogens that erod the healthy spirit of sport. This is because I think we will all agree that the notion of sport in itself involves a strong symbolism, that of the group spirit, of understanding, of solidarity, of cooperation. So, with this draft prefecture, there is a first attempt to combat problems in the field of sport at last, for example, violence in the field of sports. The present government, having been deeply aware of the threat caused by the manipulation of the struggles and the multiple social impacts and the subsequent violence in the sports grounds, unfortunately condemns, with a huge delay of five whole years, of course, because of the disastrous governance of SYRIZA - ANEL, at last, the Convention on the Manipulation of the Sports Games, namely the Macolin Convention. The Macolin Convention, also known as the Convention on Manipulation of Sports Games, is a Council of Europe Convention which primarily sets a clear framework for cooperation to prevent the manipulation of games directly linked to the bet. Most importantly, however, this Convention aims at preventing, tracing and punishing the manipulation of sports matches, as well as strengthening the exchange of information between public authorities, sports organisations and sports betting organisers. So this bill is a first step to finally begin the complete reversal of course for Greek sport, as manipulation circuits no longer know borders. But violence and its fight is the great wager of the present government. Unfortunately, for decades now we have all witnessed all the social pathogens that appear on the stadiums, which have absolutely nothing to do with the fan world, the sports press and the athletes, that is to say, all those who love spinning around sport. The second part of the draft law is therefore wisely dealt with, I would say, with the extremely important issue of violence and its fight against it, by introducing effective measures. In particular, it allows for sample checks to be carried out to the ticket holders in order to facilitate the identification and identification of those involved in acts of violence outside and outside the territory. It shall also provide the possibility in the context of the criminal proceedings and adapted to the new data on the protection of personal data, the collection, processing and exploitation of the material and data recorded by any technical means handled by a member of the Hellenic Police, so that any criminally interesting act carried out within or outside the sporting establishments is distinguished, controlled and finally punished by the appropriate penalty. It extends the local and time limits for the application of the criminal provisions of Article 41 of Law 2725/1999 on the implementation and in acts of sporting violence that have purely fanatical motives and are held at a time and place not related to a sporting event. In this way, there is provision for conflicts in places regardless of the conduct of a sporting race, the so-called "declaration" of the host armies, which we have sadly lamented countless victims in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, sport is not war and should not be evolving into war. Sport is and must be a celebration at which everyone must be able to participate. We must hand the courts back to the fan audience and the families, strengthening the sense of security and protection. We must facilitate the organisational staffing of motor sports matches and restore Rali Acropolis to our country that has been lost, unfortunately, because of the inability of the previous government. As regards the terms of office of members of the board of directors of sports federations, which has been a great deal of talk about, it is very good that the framework of the International Olympic Committee, which has been in writing and which has already been applied in several countries, is being applied. Thus, with the provisions relating to the new statute of the Hellenic Olympic Committee, anyone who has shown that its current statutes proved to be outdated, anachronistic and incapable of adapting to an ongoing legal, social and sporting context. That is why the IOC has already asked for its replacement so that the Hellenic Olympic Committee is more flexible and can turn its interest in supporting and promoting Greek sport. Otherwise, there is a risk that Greece will remain outside the Olympic family, which is incomprehensible for the country that gave birth to the Olympic ideal, olympism. In an extremely positive direction, there is also the possibility of a secondment of Olympics to the General Secretariat of Sports and its supervised bodies. Our Olympians are capitals for our country and must be exploited as ambassadors to sport and olympism, once they want to. Ladies and gentlemen, the clearance of Greek sport, as our golden Olympian, Mr Kaklamanakis, says, is an option. First of all, however, I would say that it is a political option. Mr Mitsotakis' government appears ready to bear political costs once again in order to tackle the chronic problems of sport. This draft law is a first step towards dealing directly with pathogens, and, as the State Secretary responsible has said, a broad consultation on a new revised legal framework will soon be launched. Unfortunately, useful time has been lost, valuable time. However, we are determined to move faster, higher, stronger, as the Olympic ideal itself calls for 'Citius Altius Fortus'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u347	Me too, my colleague. Mr Kavadas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the House is now being called upon to vote on an important government's legislative initiative on sport, mainly to deal with violence in sports spaces and to deal with the manipulation of racing and corruption in sport. Our country in sport must set an example as the Olympic ideal was born here. It is undeniable that the sport sector attracts huge economic interest and is therefore vulnerable to manipulation of sports games, particularly high-interest matches where profits from betting are huge. In recent years numerous racing scandals have seen the light of publicity in various countries, irreparably harming the credibility of sports performance and the prestige of sport. In this context, the government finds it imperative that our country ratify the Macolin Convention, since it was, in fact, from the first signatory countries. Because the Macolin Convention aims to defend sporting ideals, but also to defend the credibility and purity of sport against corruption. We signed it in 2014, but the previous government, for five years, did not bring it to ratification and the 'why' should our SYRIZA colleagues explain it to us. Today we incorporate an international legal framework in Greece, which provides the means to the states to fight the so-called'street' which are directly linked to the illegal bet. Through the Macolin Convention, cooperation between the authorities of all countries is promoted in order to investigate this type of case in depth, a cooperation which provides for a broad exchange of data on cases of suspected races in any sport. The draft law also provides for the establishment of a national platform, which will act as a information centre for transmission to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, ratification of the Macolin Agreement is an important step in the fight against the targeted ones. However, the bill also has a second part, which is equally important, with measures to combat violence in sport, a long-term pathogen, which our country, unfortunately, has not yet adequately tackled. Sports spaces should be places where families enjoy their favorite sport without fear. I've served thirteen years in the field of sport. I have personal experience of what violence means verbal and physical in sports spaces. Violence has no place in sport. The bill aims at preventive action, allowing for sample checks on ticket holders within and outside sports facilities. Thus, the provision of nominal tickets, which will, in turn, facilitate the identification of persons involved in acts of violence, will be effectively implemented. The provision for the collection, processing and use of data recorded by the police and of any criminally relevant act shall be re-examined and with respect for the protection of personal data. Fans' safety is supremely good and must be protected. Of particular importance is the extension of the local and time limits within which acts of violence can be regarded as having follow-up motives and taking place outside sports spaces, the so-called "death dates" of fans, which we experienced, Minister, in Lefkada in March 2016 and, indeed, in a women's final cup in basketball. A register of fans shall also be established and the obstacles to sanctions and restrictive conditions shall be removed in the operation of linkages of organised fans. Those links between fans are not in line with and are not in line with this institutional framework, will not be allowed to function and there will be sanctions. We must see the international experience and best practices adopted by other countries in order to eliminate the phenomenon of violence in sport, such as in England in the 1980s. We need to study these practices and adapt them to the Greek reality. Ladies and gentlemen, those provisions on the exploitation of the prestige, experience and the international domination of our Olympics, whether as an ambassador to the Olympic ideal or in Greek sport, are also particularly important. Finally, another important provision of the bill is the direct use of Olympic sports facilities through the possibility that management bodies can contribute directly to the candidate company without time-consuming bureaucratic procedures. And by the way, I would like to close, Mr Minister, inviting you to respond to the demands of Lefkada concerning sports facilities. Claims I mentioned from this step in March 2019, such as the Tsukalad Football Stadium and on which the previous government did not respond. I'll give it back to you, and I'm sure this time, with you in charge, we'll find a better response. Ladies and gentlemen, sport is a celebration. To be a celebration, however, it requires strict rules to avoid phenomena of violence and corruption. And this bill is a step forward in modernising Greek sport. Most importantly, however, it is a step forward so that fanatic citizens, young children, families, peaceful fans can unwisely enter the field, safely support their teams and enjoy one of the ultimate achievements of human culture and sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u349	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Baraliacos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u350	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today in the Greek Parliament comes to solve the chronic problems of Greek sport, which, unfortunately, have not been dealt with for decades now, which show the courage and determination of this government to take steps leading to a more qualitative sport, which forms a different culture for our young people and young people, which rewards the effort, noble speech, the fight for improvement. The government, faithful to commitments and election announcements, has declared war against violence and all forms of lawlessness. The New Democracy, without losing any time, brings to the Greek Parliament bills that will restore the sense of security to citizens, state officials and actors, but also to institutions, institutions and institutions. The Government seeks to cure the prolonged, widespread and diverse lawlessness, namely not only the circumvention of laws, but also the general distortion of any concept and spirit of legality which has prevailed during the period of SYRIZA governance. The bill relates mainly to sport, a long, diverse and very beloved appearance of Greek culture over time. This expression of the body, spirit and soul, sport, which is at the same time one of the leading social, political and cultural events in Greece and worldwide, seeks with this bill to exalt and above all to give it back where it belongs, to citizens, young people, children, families, students, participants and tourists from all parts of the earth that attracts every great sporting event. I'll focus on two, three points. The first concerns an issue of lawlessness quite widespread, which not only alters the ideals and ideals of sport and "fighting", but also has disastrous consequences for individuals, players, fans and groups. It is about the phenomenon of preconscious matches and all those pre-agreements and procedures that seek to direct and change the outcome of a game, a game to a very specific result, which will bring high profits and benefits to those who have sought it in an illegal and immoral manner. Such phenomena not only expose to illegal enrichment and shameful gains, but strangle consciences, careers, lives of athletes, coaches and other sporting factors. The Council of Europe Convention was signed in Switzerland on 18 September 2014, which provides an international tool for addressing the phenomenon of racing manipulation. Ladies and gentlemen, as a man of sport I grew up and manned in the courts and swimming pools, as an athlete initially as a member of the administrations of sports clubs. And I imagine he's sad too. I remember my own student going with my father and friends every Sunday on every field outside or within Pierea. It was our entertainment, our fun. It was Sunday's meeting with good friends, in which we shared joys and sorrows, victories and defeats. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, for years now we cannot go with our children on the field to watch a race, we are not feeling safe at all, and that is what saddens us and concerns us. Finally, that's what we want to change. The government and I personally want, and in the vote on this bill we want, the courts, the natural spaces of sport to be re-engineered, recreational, fun, ethos for students, young people, our athletes. Families must feel safe on the field and athletes must not risk their physical integrity when participating in a race. It is unacceptable for a European Union state to count followers - victims and injured every year. In conclusion, I would like to focus on an organisation which I personally rank as a very important organisation, since it is the only organisation of a world championship level that has been taking place in Greece, consistently in the last sixty years, Rali Acropolis. Let me just remind you that Rali Acropolis was broadcast TV in more than a hundred and fifty countries, thus contributing to the global promotion of Greece and enhancing its image as a tourist destination. Allow me at this point to restore the truth, Mr Burnus, because what you mentioned is not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u351	Look at the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u352	In 2014, due to the financial difficulties faced by the country, Rallie Acropolis came out of the World Championship's calendar and was included until 2018 in the European Rall Championship, the ERC. Rally Acropolis did not stop, Mr. Burnus, at the Government of Samaras. The organisation stopped in 2019 due to your bad manipulations and the inability of your own government. In any case, I think it is particularly important to return it to the world federation calendar. In order to achieve this, however, there are two necessary conditions: Firstly, to harmonise the regulations of the national federation with those of the international FIA, and to this end is the amendment we are proposing in Part Three of the draft law. Secondly, to find the necessary resources to claim and ultimately to organise the struggle successfully. Rally Acropolis is certainly not offered for party exploitation. It is a chapter for our country and we must all defend it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that it will take time, it will be necessary for all actors to cooperate, but ratification of this convention is a first step and sets the foundations for the resolution of long-term Greek sport. I am positively recommending the vote of this bill - a cut-off for Greek sport, and I ask you to vote in favour of it, thus contributing to the change of the sport framework in our country. It is the least we can do, that is to say, to shape these conditions so that our children can go unawares in the future with their own families on the field and enjoy the sight by taking part in a healthy celebration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. SYRIZA has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u354	Madam President, I shall speak from here because my position is too short. This is how I will make it easier for this House. All I will do is to read a resolution, which is timely because we have been sent two days ago by the Association of Sports Associations of the Cyclades Sports Union, which is mentioned - I would put it as a reference to parliamentary control - but it refers to the bill and, above all, to a matter of this. That's why I'm reading one page myself and I'm going to testify to it in the Minutes. ‘Declaration of the Union of Sports Associations of Cyclades: The Board of Directors of the Association of Sports Associations of SCIENCE Cyclades expresses its astonishment and concern about the submitted bill of State Secretary for Sports on the administration of federations. In particular, the proposal for a law of the political leadership for the election of their elected bodies undermines the self-interest and independence of sports federations and is an unambiguous interference in their internal functioning. The federations, which are held every four years, constitute the supreme democratic body which decides on the re-election, re-opening or renewal of its leadership. In particular, the SCA follows the regulatory framework and adapts to the specific amendments made by the World Federation of Athletics, IAF, as the federations around the world do. In this context, IAF allows their members to be fully freed in matters concerning election and election. The Board of Directors of the SINGLE Circles, therefore, is entirely identical to the position of our secondary body, namely the federation, which is contrary to the provisions of the draft law, identifying issues of constitutionality as well. The problem of Greek sport is neither the age of its managers nor the number of their terms of office. It is the sub-financing of federations and the abandonment of sports facilities. In particular, sports leadership and sport organisations should consider the low share of administrative responsibility. If we reverse this situation, we will ensure the renewal of a staffing force, that is, what the draft law is attempting in a stubborn way. The changes in the institutions of society, after all, are made from the bottom up and not from the top to the bottom." Thank you very much. I'm tabling the resolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, my colleague. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Fotini Bakada, has requested the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today inviting ourselves to discuss a bill which, although it is supposed to be trying to regulate the issues of manipulation of the sports games, gambling and violence in the field, finally works pretextically and does not even deepen the causes of these phenomena. If we turn back a few years, in the 1970s and 1980s and in the institutionalization of professional sport in our country, starting with football, we will see that, alongside the creation of this category of sport, we have also started to have commercialisation, which has mainly done more harm than good. Because this is how all the violence has started, without overlooking that we have previously had similar incidents, although quite clearly limited of frequency. Besides, who can forget the levelling of Alexandra Avenue in 1964 when fans of the two centuries-old rivals, Panathinaikos and Olympiacos, assuming that the game was fixed, attacked against players and referees and literally leveled the field as soon as it was empty? I am saying, however, that the creation of professional sport over the years has harmed it, ladies and gentlemen, as we gradually had the intrusion of sporting interests of completely foreign to him, the intrusion of professional and economic interests that are trying, through the purchase of a group, to gain some form of legitimacy. At the same time, adopting the practice of linking their professional activities to the performance of their management associations, they manage to gain broad acceptance and often expensive support for their teams and friends. So they can easily turn them into a special army that blindly follows the instructions and orders of the team owner. In this way, the noble talk, which should characterise athletes and fans, is lost in the name of passion for the group and obedience to the president. And of course, like any army, all these special armies have their own hierarchy and discipline, links, former members who recruit members and train further and so on, and this is not difficult to lead to violence - we all understand it - and unfortunately the violence on the ground is one of the most important types of violence that we see in our country. Of course, violence is not a privilege - in introductory words - of super-lig groups. All teams, regardless of category, wherever they fight, have fans. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been elected to the Second Piraeus, a region facing a huge problem of violence in the fields, especially football, since, although we do not have Mr Marinakis' Olympics, we have several smaller groups, with an example of two centuries old rivals, the Ionian and Progressive. Each of them is called the derby of Red or Nice. We've been talking about two teams that have been separating them for at least two kilometers, but since '68 incidents have not been stopped whenever they have a fight between them. These games are considered to be one of the country's biggest derby players, and that is why violence should not be placed in such meetings. And not only do we have episodes when playing Progressive - Ionian or Ionian - Progressive, but also with other groups. They give appointments, they go fans of one team to each other's matches with the other, and we have the same phenomena. Unfortunately, we have recently observed various incidents and fans' conflicts outside of racing spaces, as well as attacks against parts of other unions. Unfortunately, the incidents that we have seen recently even in women's group struggles, which have always been more quiet, show that we are not on the right track and must actually end. However, a legislative initiative is not sufficient, especially if it is quite pretextful, such as today. There should be a more radical change in our education and follow-up culture. Learning children - not only those who have been practicing from an early age with sport and learn it, but also the others who are engaged in amateurs or as viewers - the importance of the fight, the importance of even defeat, but also the importance of respect for the opponent. Only by rationalisation and a gradual change of attitude can violence be tackled. Those who are parents - I am not yet, but I understand it - should also help them, because school is not enough for children, from a very young age, to form a complete character. If, in other words, a child lives in an environment where Dad is a fan of the first or second team and takes Sunday to break a seat on the field, I don't think he'll grow up in a healthy environment. The most likely is to stop the violence he sees. The most important thing, however, is for everyone, ladies and gentlemen, that a brave decision should finally be taken to clean up professional sport from all economic interests and all the business interests that have been plunged away for years and that all necessary steps can be taken to prevent domestic oligars, such as Melissanidis and Mr Marinakis, from having their own fanatics and blindly subordinated to the guerrillas of fans. How could that be? A solution would be for team owners to be fans. Another would be that we do not allow a businessman to buy more than a small percentage of a union. How can we surely find it if there were - and that is why I am not sure whether it will ever be - political will? Until now, we have not only seen injuries, but also deaths on Greek stadiums. A characteristic example of Haralambous Bliona, who in '86 clearly from bad luck lost his life in Alcasar. The man had never set foot on the field, once he went and pinned a flare on his neck by PAOK fans. Another example is Costas Katsoulis, who was brutally attacked in a struggle between Herodotus and National. There are many other cases, Giorgos Panagiotou in the derby AEK - Olympiacos, Ethymis Liakas, Costas Dolias, George Karnezis, who, as a fan of the Panathinaikos, was attacked by Olympiacos and so on. I will not go on mentioning examples, because I think we will be here by Sunday. Ladies and gentlemen, especially in the era of the humanitarian crisis that we are experiencing, at a time when all sorts of violence is being giggled, it is expected that the opportunistic violence will also increase. The fans also see it as a means of exulting them, of erupting them against all that they are being swallowed, so brave initiatives need to be taken from us to solve the problems that are causing them combined with the problems of interests in professional sport, so that we now have only individual cases of violence on the ground. We should now, as I said, put the knife in the bone. It is an expression that we have heard so many times, and we have said it, but we must enter and reach the knife in the bone and clean up professional sport from all the great interests of the big businessmen who use it in the beam to build their own legalisation. But - and I conclude - in addition to the pretext of today's bill, this draft law also contains several elements of unconstitutionalism - beyond the age limit we mentioned at the beginning of the debate - because the Government brings in a provision for registration in sports facilities, almost a month after voting for the GDPR, and at the moment there is a strong complaint from the Personal Data Protection Authority for the non-constitutionality of paragraphs 15 and 14 contained in the third article of the draft law, the negative opinion of that House, which I would like to table in the Minutes, which will be called upon to judge in practice these provisions. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Fotini Bakadima, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The government, however, ignored them on the spot and on the basis of the collapsing of the matter made by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which is only marginally overthrown by this, has brought about a legislative improvement which is not, in other words, an improvement, simply by deleting part of the provision. Illegal - according to the principle - is simply rustled. We call on the Government to take back these two provisions, which will in any case be suppressed by the competent authority that judges them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u357	Thank you too, my colleague. Mr Kotsiras from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u358	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to make a reference, because it is now two years since the great tragedy of Attica, namely Mandra and Nea Peramo, which left behind our fellow citizens dead and I think that we must do everything in our power to avoid reliving such moments in the future and we must never forget this sad day for the Greek society. I consider it particularly important that today's draft law to be adopted and I must point out that its inclusion in the first legislation brought about by the new Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis reflects both the awareness of the importance of sport for modern societies and the Government's intention to modernise aspects of the relationship between sport and legislation, on the one hand, and, on the other, to address the current scourge of sport that has two repulsive forms, the manipulation of sports matches and violence in sports spaces, and on the other hand, on the occasion of struggles or other sport events and events. We are used - and rightly so - to pride ourselves on the fact that in Greece the Olympic ideal was born and cultivated. We learned from generations to generations to praise and command sport as a high and noble value, because it is based on the idea of peace, promotes fairness and well-intentioned competition and cultivates perseverance in effort, commitment to struggle, hope for the best. And while we are all aware of the value and importance of sport and as a society we accept the engaging in sport as a healthy expression of human activity, we see the gradual suppression and oppression of the sporting idea by manipulating sports games, directly linked to the bet and contempt and despair of fair play with the exercise of blind and unspeakable violence that prevents the average Greek citizen from attending sports events, because he often fears that he will be found in a hospital and cannot accompany his children in this way. The manipulation of the sports games has a direct connection with fraud and organised crime and is the most serious threat to sports activities, as it weakens them at social, economic and cultural level. Field violence has also been a permanent phenomenon for many decades and has been constantly concerned with public dialogue, but so far there have not been any substantial and particularly effective intervention to address it. The state's efforts so far to deal with these two morbid phenomena that hurt Greek society and distort the sporting idea have been fragmentary or opportune and have unfortunately ended up unsuccessful. The time has finally come to close these open wounds and to establish a serious legal framework for their effective treatment. We want to believe that with the draft law we are building healthy foundations for more immediate and more substantial results of long breath, so that the sporting idea in our country is to set the margin and eliminate forms of behaviour that degrade us and expose us as a state and as a society. The Convention on the Manipulation of the Sports Games of the Council of Europe, which was signed in 2014, but has not been ratified until now by the Greek Parliament, aims to preserve the purity of sport, setting out a specific structured institutional framework for preventing the phenomenon of manipulation, the protection of sport culture and the consolidation of sport ethics. Articles 4.5 and 6 of the Convention define internal coordination and an important element of the Convention is the education and awareness of the parties to strengthen the battle against manipulation of the racing. There are many innovations and interesting provisions of this convention concerning the implementation of a framework of substantive criminal law and cooperation between the competent national law enforcement bodies. It is intended to ensure the imposition of criminal sanctions when the manipulation of the games involves forced, corruption or fraud, as defined by Greek law. And since, as we all know, this crime has international dimensions, its treatment with a contract is obviously necessary and its ratification today by the Greek Parliament lays the foundations so that the Greek state and the authorities can deal with it both at criminal and operational level. The second part of the bill deals with combating violence on the ground. In particular, it provides for the possibility of sample checks to be carried out on ticket holders, within and outside sports facilities, in order to make it easier to identify and identify those involved in acts of violence, which will, at least, address, at a first level, frequent phenomena we see, which cannot be dealt with in a different way. While extremely important is the possibility of collecting processing and utilization in the context of the criminal procedure of the material and data recorded by any technical means, which handles a member of the Greek Police, so that any criminally collaborative act carried out within and outside the sports facilities is distinguished, controlled and finally punished by the appropriate penalty. All of this, in conjunction with the recent provisions of the Criminal Code that have recently been passed with respect, obviously, to the provisions on the protection of personal data, can create a framework of criminal treatment, which will send the right message to the Greek society to address a very serious problem for younger children in particular who want to deal with sport, but also to watch safely a sporting struggle. We are against those who turn with their anti-social aggression and their raw violence, sports struggles in exercises of multi-formal crime, often with painful results, and we strengthen those who are the overwhelming majority of citizens who want to enjoy the beauty of sport in conditions of peace and security. And Article 4 of the bill under discussion setting out the local and time-limits for extending criminal sanctions so that they can also apply to acts of violence, which have follow-up motives outside the races and outside the sporting space, is in the right direction, because unfortunately, we have all witnessed very sad events that have left the dead and especially young children behind. Ladies and gentlemen, we must use every effort to restore the sporting idea. Strengthen the credibility and prestige of Greek sport and allow healthy fans who are the overwhelming majority to escape from the tyranny of fan violence and any other illegal activity. As a man who has been actively involved in sport, I am very pleased that this bill is moving in this direction and I believe that the other actions of the Ministry of Sports and the Minister will move in the same direction and improve the conditions that Greek society can monitor and join the sporting ideal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, too. Mr SYRIZA, Mr Skouriac, has the floor for seven minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Madam President. You will allow me, since no Member of Parliament from New Democracy - at least this morning I have been following and I think I am not mistaken - to speak and defend Article 19 - on the sinful fund of officials from the Ministry of Culture - to deal with this article and, at the same time, to express my regret at the same time about the status imposed by the Minister of Culture with the Fast Truck legislative procedure and the summer bill and now attempt to make matters of great importance, in the secret, hastily and inconveniently, I would say. Today he didn't come here. We in the committees, however, did not get any serious answers. And he didn't come here until the last minute to support what he fought for and it was so proud of. Because it cannot be proud of a Minister, who in this case Article 19 of the draft law, is trying to cover the works and days of the sinner, as the public opinion calls it the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture. He's trying to shut it down. You did the same yesterday at the expense of the healed. The members of Elefsina Cultural Capital have learned from a press conference by the Minister that they have ceased and are a story that we will see in the future. We found the opportunity - while we know who is responsible - for the members there to change them and, of course, to put our own people there. Really, why did they name this fund a sinner? Because it was a fund without statutes - it has been said many times - without general assemblies, without an elected board of directors, but managed public money. And scrumptious money! 2.5% of the revenue of the Archaeological Resources and Appropriations Fund by decisions of the Ministers of the New Democracy and the PASOK. And you know? The money of this fund is a lot. This is the vault of the Ministry of Culture, and 2.5% is a great deal of money. Everyone knew and talked that something was wrong with this fund. SYRIZA's government did the same thing. He requested a check from the General Accounting Office of the State. There the findings were many and not pleasantly. Of course they took the road to the prosecutor of corruption. A number of issues have been raised in the light of publicity which justice has dealt with and it has, in turn, prosecuted seventeen trade unionists for six felony acts. Gang recommendation and much more, not at all pleasant. There were "loans" found in introductorys, which were supposed to have been requested and received by some officials who, during the audit, declared complete ignorance. Where did the money go? The funds paid by this fund have been found for poster services, I would ask - not public officials, posters - to the offices of Ministers and the Secretary-General. Extreme tariffs have been found, but amounts of the operation of the juvenile station have also been found. These and some others have seen the light of publicity and we do not know for now any new findings of the corruption prosecutor. You keep asking why we insist on asking not to be wound up in operation. But why we have made the fund clear and runs the risk of overlapping. Who's going to prosecute? I remind you that the cultural capital of Europe, "Thessaloniki 1997", was completed in 2012 and the liquidation of the organization "Preservation of Greek Culture" began in 2010 and has not yet been completed. The SYRIZA government, in addition to investigating the matter, has therefore proceeded with the restoration of the legal personality of the fund. A statute and rules of operation were set up under Law 4598/19 in March, reduced the state grant to 30,000 a year from 2.5% of the Archaeological Resources Fund, passed the children's station on the responsibility of the Ministry, of course changed the Board and the President by temporary and by this law in 4598/19, the new management board would result democratically from elections. Sadly, however, following the general elections that have arisen, and the coming to the Government of New Democracy, transparency is being sidelined, the legitimacy of democratic procedures is unsatisfactory and irresponsible - the culmination of a scandal, for which, I repeat, no member of the New Democracy has spoken. Come on, at least, the next ones to support it, say something. Really, why do you disagree with a fund - the estate of the employees and you want it under the suffocating control of the Ministry's own political leadership? Why with unprecedented slut two months ago did you appoint a new director and recently two members of the board of directors, after you have launched the closure of the fund? Why do you abolish the arrangements of the previous government by which the fund acquired legal status with transparency, accountability and democratic procedures? What are you going to do with his personal fund? Why do you not adopt the solution given by the SYRIZA government with an ASP intake and an increased moleculation for those who are already serving? According to the report of the regulatory consequences of the bill, the operating costs of the children's station amount to EUR 500,000, which is not mentioned at any point in the bill or in the explanatory statement. Do you intend to shut him down? The letter of the plant’s parent and guardian association expresses its agony and clearly calls for full implementation of Law 4598/19, i.e. the previous government. I submit for the record the letter of the Parents and Wardens Association. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Skourikos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Clearly, the Single Association of Officials of the Ministry of Culture, Attica, Central and Islands is asking for the withdrawal or non-voting of the contested article 19 of the Act, taking a stand in the scandal case which affects them as workers. I'm putting down for the practical text of the club. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Panagiotis Skourikos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Even in our committee the representatives of this fund have expressed complimentaryly on the law of the previous government. Let us not talk about Article 20, with the four partners in the Archaeological Resources Fund, about the evil that had become pre-electioned about 'the SYRIZA poster who had sealed the ministries'. You have now increased the poster and increased their wages. Because your kids are not enough to have a job, they must be paid richly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, I'll be done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u361	Just a minute, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u362	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, if in your final state concepts such as transparency, accountability, democratic procedures and good administration are unknown, yet they are not the foundations for the Greek people, who are sure will seek them. The cover-up of any difficult case you're trying to deal with right now won't pass. Look, you're both involved in the Treasury's history and the New Democracy and the PASOK before. You can now, at the last minute, withdraw Article 19, because otherwise, you know it, you'll find it in front of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, too. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Giokas, has now called for the floor. You have the floor for twelve minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Madam President. It's probably the fourth or fifth time in the last ten years we've been discussing a sports bill. This time he came on the occasion of the ratification of a contract. I say 'on the occasion' because the bill is not limited to the issues covered by the Convention, but it extends to other issues which have been developed during the debate and in committee and in plenary. What was the aim, supposedly, of all these legislative interventions which have been made so far by both the New Democracy and PASOK, and by SYRIZA and so on.Huh? To hit violence in sport, to hit violence in the events and activities of professional and commercial sport more properly, because sport is rival and incompatible with violence, to deal with the manipulation of the games, illegal money, illegal betting, doping and to lay transparency rules. These were the objectives that all of us were supposed to have pursued, but all the governments to date, through the legislative interventions they made in this area. In fact, in too many cases there were indeed strict measures, either at the expense of individual fans, let us say it, which are illegal or at the expense of groups and so on. There have been, for example, very strict penalties. I remember the Contonis law. There was even the introduction of peculiar offences in connection with sports offences, it was the imposition of penalties, without even having suspensory effect. I mean, even if appeal was made, she had no suspensive effect. There have also been a number of provisions which you are announcing today, but which in one way or another have been implemented in previous years by previous governments, especially provisions which, in our view, are very dangerous to popular freedoms, and which, in fact, have transformed land into a repressive laboratory, which, of course, by means of modern methods and instruments, which can then be extended. The question arises: after ten years of respondents, repeated legislative interventions by all governments, what was the result? What was the result after ten years? Your government used to be PASOK, it was SYRIZA, etc. The result was zero in the clay. All these morbid phenomena in the field of sport remain and remain, because very simply the causes of them are still and are being giggled. Because no one, but any of the previous laws, treated these causes to the very least. All that previous laws did, and today’s law does this, was to try to manage the symptoms and the consequences, but not to address the real causes. Like giving aspirin to a severely ill. The causes have always been unavoidable. Mostly, the main cause was unavoidable. That, in other words, in the field of sport and particularly the most popular sports, he is being ravaged by strong business interests. Interest that serves its own designs, interests that compete with each other, even transfer to sporting business competitions that may have in other fields of the economy, interests which are interdependent with the State and the Government, in order to be served through groups of other types, whether business or politicians or both, and say. It was said before a spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Tsigris, if I am not mistaken, that this is a Greek phenomenon, that in England and other countries they have been forcefully cleared. There's nothing falseer than that. All these phenomena of violence, illegal betting, race manipulation exist in all countries, even in those that are advertised as sporty advanced. What do we get? Soccer scandals in Italy? Back in France? In Spain? In England the episodes? A week ago, twenty-eight fans were arrested on the occasion of the local derby Bets - Seville? So, where were they treated? In what country have these phenomena been dealt with? What has been done in other countries is what? The violence that has social causes to take her out of the field and take her to the neighborhoods, the squares and the neighborhoods to protect the commercial product. That's what they've done. They have not tackled violence, which is a social phenomenon and which has social causes. In Greece and countries like Greece there is another issue that we have raised at times. What's that? Because the market is objectively small, a very large proportion of the profits and revenues for the various big businessmen exist through the globe, through other sources and other ways. There is no, ladies and gentlemen, a reasonable man or a pure fan who does not see all this, who does not find it. The world has a tombstone and you have a secret curtain. All the legislative arrangements so far have not been able to deal with these phenomena, because they did not want to cancel and crash to the minimum with business activity in the field of sport, which leads to the hunting of profits and is the reason for the reproduction of such phenomena and all this rotting that exists in the field of commercial sport. You did not accept - you and the previous governments - elementary proposals made on the part of the Communist Party of Greece, to which our rapporteur referred before, such as placing sports anonymous companies on the Ministry of Development or banning the participation of Greek groups on the betting lists. This policy was followed by the previous SYRIZA government. Maybe with different preferences to some businessmen. But politics was the same. We all remember the gratifying land regulations, the gratifying arrangements with fine write-offs, and we also remember in the previous government's sports bill that it was incompatible with being a shareholder of a football anonymity and at the same time being a shareholder of a betting company. And even this - which was a fig sheet, it was nothing - was abolished with the previous government. We have always pointed out these issues and despite the fact that some individual provisions may have been passed on to them, we have nevertheless made it clear that nothing is going to change substantially. As it has happened, as is not going to change with this bill, because you, too, are moving in exactly the same logic and not just move, but you are strengthening it with a lot of provisions in the bill that favour business activity in the field of sport. Like, for example, the direct assignment to sports anonymous companies of the use and management of Olympic facilities, with various pretexts, exempting the State from financing for maintenance and operation, instead of exploiting these facilities to promote sport or the conversion of the legal status of the Hellenic Olympic Committee by a legal person governed by public law, opening the way, so that the assets of the EEEE, the installations, the total movable and immovable property fall into the nails of ambitious economic interests. We are therefore essentially talking about a sports bill, in the name of a sports bill, which does not deal with sport at all. It does not deal with sport, with every sport and its problems, it does not deal with clubs and people working in them, it does not deal with the issues of developing infrastructure and sports areas, it does not deal with the funding that needs to be made. I mean, with everything about the family, the parents, the effort they make, the anxiety they have to support their children. Of course, consider the terms of birth, deal with the age limits for which we have had a detailed discussion, as though that is the problem of sport. You're talking about renewal. We said it before. You do not, however, impose renewal on it by such laws. growers, prepare her, ensure participation, parental training, and the world that participates in unions, so that executives of them and, of course, growers can participate more actively in the commons of unions and federations. What does it have to do with what you are going to do today in amateur clubs, which are the basis of sport? Do you have any idea what's going on today in amateur unions? Do you have any idea that there are people who put from their pockets and from their backs to operate and maintain these unions, whether they are parents, or coaches, or factors in the good sense, rather than excreted, as it has prevailed? Not that there are no problems. And in amateur sport there are problems, because amateur sport has been poisoned and operates in many in the image and likeness of merchandise sport. But there are people who give a battle, dedicate time, money, but they also have endurance limits. So how do you favour renewal at all levels? It is up to you - with your overall policy - to discourage the renewal and participation of this world in the unions' activities and to leave sport in the big wallets and very large wallets. That's what you're doing. You said in relation to the terms that there are international best practices in relation to all of this. This was the answer by the institutions during the hearing. As you have also been answered that it is the International Olympic Committee which is not elected, but which itself puts terms on its own, does not put them on top, and it is another thing the sports federations that its members are present. You also say that terms of birth and age limits also suggest international federations, FIFA, IAF, etc. Let them impose them. You're not president of IAF. I wish you'd be, if you'd like. But you're not. You're Minister of Sports. You therefore have no reason to try with state and government intervention to impose such measures. You are also talking about corruption, opacity, antiquities, smashing public money, etc. Bring concrete evidence and we are with you if these prove to be handled. But specific issues, not mud in the fan just to create impressions. That's the point. So it is a different thing to disagree in the way the federations operate - and we have too many disagreements with the federations and with their politics - and it is another thing to control the field of sport. Our concept - and I shall end, Madam President - is on the other side. Sport and not sport, but physical education, physical exercise is a necessity, it is the right of the people and youth, which must claim together with all other rights. For you sport is a commodity and a field of profitability and the relationship of the people and youth with it is a customer's relationship with a commercial product. We have a different perception. We believe that sport when systematically cultivated, forms a life-stage attitude, contributes to man becoming active and active, favours mood and will. And the one who has been the same athlete, who knows the rules of a sport, can be a good fan tomorrow. Unfortunately, today the majority of the people do not have access to sport and its benefits, with very negative consequences. It is characteristic that young people in our country are champions in musculoskeletal problems, obesity and so on. We, with this reality, do not agree. On the contrary, we are doing everything in our power to defend the rights of young people and all the people in sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u365	Thank you very much, too. Mr Cretan will be speaking, Mr Avramakis will follow, because he has to leave on the plane and immediately thereafter, I will give the floor to the Secretary-General of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, George Orwell regarded sport as a stranger to the "fight". He has said attributes: "Serious sport has nothing to do with euphoria. It is full of hatred, jealousy and caucasianity, ignorance of all rules and sadistic pleasure in monitoring violence. In other words, it is war without shooting." On the contrary, French philosopher Albert Camy, in support of his opinion on the importance of sport, said: "All I know about morality and sense of duty I have learned from football". One would say that it is impressive to differentiate between the two views of the top two thinkers and philosophers of the 20th century, about sport and their relationships with him. Although Camy is considered his main theory of insanity, which, according to his theory, makes it impossible to find the exact causes of his opinion, but one is certain, Minister, that he was a guardian. He was a sportsman, or part of what caused Orwell to call him a war without shooting. This is the one perspective, namely how one judges the whole sport with whether he is a participant or not. The other point of view is Orwell's. Let's see if he's right. What was he looking at, what was it that caused him so abhorrently against sport? Was it for him - as a spectator of course also a fan - the whole of sport were the fans and the hard actions of the athletes to achieve their goal? Ladies and gentlemen, my concern with classical sport and my love for him, which comes from all the memories I have treasured, allows me to have an opinion based on them. I would therefore support any proposal and any law that would help sport, whether professional or amateur, to promote, make it more attractive for the average citizen to enter the context of the sporting ideal. So this bill is composed of six parts, which in turn deal with manipulation of the games, dealing with violence, arrangements for the General Secretariat of Sports and federations, the supervision of sports anonymous companies, the ratification of the new statute of the Hellenic Olympic Committee. The world's fan wants a strong legal framework to prevent the manipulation of the games, and that is something that we have managed with the ratification of the Macolin Convention, which we have signed since 2014. Strongening control and facilitating the exchange of information, with a view to identifying manipulation phenomena, I imagine that it is something that counterpopulation agrees with. Also, with the provisions of the second part of the bill, we are trying to reduce cases of violence in and out of the stadiums, and this is of course not easy, as the human factor, character and social event enters as a sight. There are many fans who turn themselves into fans in the field when they come to the field inside, because they carry the tension they experience in their everyday lives and the experiences that have hampered their personality. Besides, the arena has been a hard field since antiquity. Something similar is the field in some sports. The means of deterrence we are introducing are designed to reduce the phenomenon of violence and to make it clear our determination to put violent people out of the field. Of course, we don't want to be psychotherapists. But we want sport to be a spectacle for the family and for all ages. The bill is still coming to cure a shortage which, in my view, was very important. We now allow the secondment of Olympics from the general public either the General Secretariat of Sports or to supervised bodies. So we cover the incomplete staff of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and, in particular, the General Secretariat, with people who are related to sport. I do not think anyone doubts that the best ambassadors of olympism and sport are our Olympians. Finally, in the fifth part, we convert the Hellenic Olympic Committee from a legal person governed by public law to a private, placing it in the modern legal and social context, by ratifying its statute, which was described as an anachronistic by the International Olympic Committee and other national sports organisations. This change made it imperative and the risk of being left outside the Olympic family. Even though the birthplace of the Olympic Games and the Olympic ideal may be in danger of being left out of the International Olympic Committee because of strangles in its legal framework! The new statute of the Hellenic Olympic Committee will allow it to be flexible and able to promote Greek sport with all powers. For all the above, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you and in the capacity of the former sportsman to vote for this bill to take a positive step forward in the face of Greek sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u367	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Avramakis now has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr President, before you start, I would like to point out something that I am sure you know and I say it so that you do not protest another time. You know very well that when he asks for the floor, or the Secretary or the President of a party, he takes the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u368	That is why I personally thank you and the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group for Mr Yani Varoufakis. Ladies and gentlemen, once the late Constantine Karamanlis, my neighbor, had said "whoever governs this country". This phrase passed in history by referring to an ex-institutional, parasitic and behind-the-military system of economic and political power. Today, in the corresponding question, the answer is clear: the Guardian and Marinakis. It's the Chief and your party, the ones who have a relationship with Froze and Marinakis. It was the Guardian who was organizing an election support dinner for Mr. Mitsotakis. So why? Did he owe it or did he expect anything from him? Mr Marinakis was the sponsor of the New Democracy, and his relationship with the Mitsotakis family is well known. It is well known that the government's warming and prestige and the Prime Minister's personal support to satisfy any request by the individual entrepreneur, who, in a series of bills, are based on his business activities, from market manoeuvres to 'FORTHNET' and 'NOVA', to subsidise through the development law, even the monopoly of the company 'ARGOS' concerning the transfer and distribution of the press. Minister, if you weren't a minister of this government, I would have thought you'd come to our country now. Is it possible to wake up one morning and accidentally identify with the statement that credit players should not be given to other teams so that the championship is not altered? So many years where have you been? Which country were you living in? Do you not know that this FAO has, for many years, lent players to all the Greek championship teams over the last 20 years? So many years in the government of the country, did you not hear anything about squats, racings, alteration of results, intimidation and beating of referees? For the beating of the referee, Mr. Jelou will be found and will the guilty finally be punished? To blow up the oven and houses of former referees, to kidnap journalists, to closed cameras on football stadiums? Minister, the tabling of the bill today after the amendments and the changes you have brought is a personal defeat, under the weight of the strong criticism you have received from the opposition, but also the question of your draft law within your party and your parliamentary group. In common, Minister, you were drawn to your ear, because even top members of your party disagreed with articles and provisions of your bill, a bill which in its original form, much more and more in its final form, had serious issues of unconstitutionality, which contributed to the statement today by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and before its debate on the unconstitutional application that was not accepted by the majority. You are coming today and you are legislating on the basis of the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Incorporation of the directive on the manipulation of racing and provisions on sporting violence. And I am glad to ask you: Do you think you have the moral stature to support articles and laws on sports violence? You were the one who then as a Member of Parliament in the sad episodes on Herodotus' court, with the death of forgiven Katsouli mentioned today by your own MPs, initially went to the apology when the union was summoned to the U.S. and on the way you tabled a question to that effect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u369	You don't even know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u370	What I'm telling you. Have you submitted a question or not? Are you out of line or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u371	You don't even know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u372	It'll prove to be on the way. Mr. Burnus will bring the corresponding documents and give them to you. Were you or weren't you? How can you guarantee today from the Minister's position and the responsibility that he has for you, when you yourself had been defending a tactic - I do not incriminate the association, I have nothing with him and his people - some people who have caused this accident and the death of this fan? I leave that to the world's crisis. We're all judging. The content of the Convention on Manipulation of Sports Games does not in fact raise controversy. It could be the occasion for a substantial and effective intervention by all the political forces. The government, however, chooses to add to this bill provisions which are an unprecedented attempt to manipulate and control federations of sport in our country. They effectively annul all the democratic changes brought about by Law No4603/2019, the so-called Vasileadis Act and even contrast with recent initiatives by the government itself. As Mr Alvizats also points out, at the request of the CAGAS, it clearly contains arrangements for unconstitutionalism, since it restricts the right of natural persons to participate in sport and its administration. The reactions of the SEGAS, one of the largest and most historic federations in our country, are only indicative of the inconvenience and problems that are created in your attempt to manipulate the administrations provided in the field of sport as a whole. The fact that there are serious problems in many federations, not just in one as photographically trying to show, is a fact. These problems cannot, however, be dealt with by photographic devices, by regulations which in several cases conflict with the regulations in which our national federations are involved. It is certain that you have not even bothered to look for all the international regulations governing each federation, with what this could mean both for the image of the country and for the participation of federations and therefore for clubs and athletes in international organisations. If it was not enough to deal with what was envisaged in the recent law, other measures could be discussed, respectively, in dealing with racing manipulation, such as better control of money flows and not just public money, but also of money moved between players, owners, managers, athletes and referees. The same happens to some federations. You, on the one hand, are trying to manipulate the federations. Obviously, the interests dictating to you the specific provisions are of interest to be put into effect and they do not care about the intriguing coincidence of attempting manipulation in a bill against manipulation. The contradictions of the government have no end. A few weeks ago you voted as a government to change changes, for example, in the procedure for calling for a strike, calling for a decision from 50 plus 1 from the members of the unions, even providing for an electronic vote in order to facilitate the participation of workers. You have voted for a audit register and various provisions, which are supposed to bring greater transparency and control of participation. You have now restored the voting arrangements through representatives, once again opening the way for unions - seals, for the acquisition of votes and for the change of the will of the genuinely involved in sport. The reactions you cause are endless. Even the Personal Data Protection Authority has reacted, saying quite rightly that the measures you have allegedly inspired to deal with violence widen so much the limits that authorities can collect and process personal data from any source, thereby ultimately violating the concept of protecting citizens' personal data. Finally, one of the most curious government contradictions relates to the provision for the abolition of the Ministry of Culture Solidarity Fund. This is a sinful fund, whose case lies in justice. Criminal prosecutions have been carried out for six felonies of seventeen formerly running the fund. You should, if you're right and morally okay with everyone waiting for these cases to come to an end and then bring any provision in this direction. In conclusion, I repeat that it is challenging, insulting and indicative of how the government understands the responsibility of governance and of the public interest that it attempts to manipulate the administrations of sports federations from specific interests in the same text by ratifying the Convention on Combating Manipulation of Races. It is insulting for our democratic city that the government adopts the approach to administering the sports federations of a defendant in a case of racing manipulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u373	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. I will now give the floor to the President of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group Mr Varoufakis for 15 minutes. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u375	You'll be sorry for us in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u376	I always speak less than my limit. I don't know if you've noticed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u377	And you're always succinct.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u378	Today I will speak even less, because we do not have much to say in the debate on sport, especially when a Sophia Sakova is on the table. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with one assumption. I personally do not understand the wild beauty or the terrible disgustingness of sport, football, especially of the group sports, where violence occurs. I feel like an ant walking on a cell phone and trying to hear how this thing works. In one way, sport, especially football, kind of connects us to our prehistoric self, as it turns into a zero sum game that one wins, the other loses. We understand, without understanding, when Bill Sunkle, Liverpool's great coach, said football isn't a matter of life and death, it's something more important than that. We laugh, we understand or we don't understand. It's wild the beauty of sport. It brings the most beautiful feelings to the surface. Who doesn't remember when we took the pan-European basketball to football? Who does not remember the great moments of sport, which unify the people who lived together, and who does not at the same time remember the atrocious scenes that many of us have experienced with deaths, racism, sexism? Sport makes it both the best and the worst thing from man. I don't understand that very well. I kind of feel them. You know what I understand? One thing is that when we interconnect sport, particularly football, with power, this whole beautiful and complex process is being poisoned. It's nothing new. Since Justinian time, sport, when involved with power, has created human defeats. They were thirty thousand dead in Istanbul, according to historians. In today’s day, today’s problems of sport begin in their own form today since sport spread through television. The interconnection of the spectacle with the TV begins a new period, a period that for the first time you have business oligorous groups, who through the spectacle of football, sport, what are they doing? They practically encapsulate viewers' eyes and sell them to advertisers. And then the end of amateurism begins. Then the interconnection of the wages of successful athletes, footballers, sales and revenues of advertised on television begins. I was talking to a great central banker some years ago, Paul Volker, who was a central banker in America from 1978 to 1987. In a debate what led to the derailment of financial systems, to the complete decommissioning of the banking system from the rest of the economy, the explanation given by Paul Volker in that debate we had done was that it was the American, because on Monday nights the popularity of the games was so great that the wages of the players exceeded ten times the wages of the biggest bankers of Wall Street. I mention this part of it, only because it is important for this interconnection of economic power and sport. The end of amateurism comes at the same time as degradation, with the collapse of the social state in the West, Britain, the United States, everywhere. Then we see a systemization of violence on the stadiums. Violence has always existed from Istanbul and the Stadium of Nika. The systemicisation and binding of violence on the ground with developments in globalised financial capitalism began in the 1970s, while the social state retreats and the rise of this incredible embrace between sport and commercialisation. Do you remember what the solution was in Britain where hooliganism lived its most glorious moments? They weren't the cameras, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple. It wasn't the policing that was actually intensified. What changed the situation on British lands was the absolute commercialisation and interconnection of the profitability of certain groups and groups owned by Manchester United, Liverpool, etc. The way they managed the crisis there. That was a solution to the first world. The solution in our country, the solution in the country of debt-purpose, what is it? We started before the crisis with some vulnerable shipowners earlier, who put money and lost money when they bought a team. From there we passed to the "Koskotadas" and reached the growth of the triangle of this country's sin that was always the contractors on the one hand, the media on the other hand, and the bankers were closing this triangle of sin. It was this triangle that put the country in the vortex of bankruptcy and the current debt colony. This triangle became square or becomes square. Sport is also added. The media belong to the same people who have football teams who control banks that control contractors. A bankrupt and devalued sport in a bankrupt debt colony is evolving with the images we see with empty courtesy. A sport at least in championship, at least in football and basketball, which eventually lives to serve one thing. Gambling, Minister. This interconnection between the privatised gambling of certain oligarchs and deported sport is the quintusa of the reflection of the debt colony in this sensitive area. We as PART25 vote against the bill, because you do not even touch this square of sin. The only way, Minister, for sport to be renegotiated from the procedures that give rise to violence in the fields, which turn Greek sport into a part of irreparable misery, is to disarming sport both from gambling and from the oligarchs. Ladies and gentlemen, we as a PART25 always - you know, you may disagree - are putting forward proposals and we are not going to vote against. We believe that three things need to be done with regard to organised sport, namely football. Because soccer starts all the trouble, that's where they go to basketball and volleyball and women's teams. Violence in classical sport will not thankfully be seen, because perhaps there is neither the zero sum nor ultimately the money and the power, the poison of sport. Our three proposals are first, the Barcelona model for the OSCE. The shares in the fans. Finally, the linking of certain oligarchic interests with the property of groups, the ownership of the media, the ownership of the nucleus of a parasitic enrichment with sport. Secondly, the nationalization of all gambling in Greece. The greatest reproach, at least aesthetically if you see it for the morality of the matter, of the period of debt-purpose, was the way in which the OPAP was privatised. We are proposing not only the statement of the OPCW again, but also the transition of all forms of gambling and their limitation to a public service. And thirdly - and I close with this because I think it has a value - that we learn from the source of too many problems in this globe, from the United States of America. I would like to remind you of something that is very interesting about the way in which they manage both American football and baseball and basketball, the sports authorities of the United States. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] You know very well that there is a ceiling that the groups cannot exceed as far as the total cost of wages is concerned. And when they go beyond it, they're taxed by 50% and these revenues are paid to the weakest groups. You know that in NBA the best new players necessarily go to the worst groups, because they understand that the only way to get real competition is by strengthening the weakest groups, which capitalism cannot understand well, but it seems that the Americans have the opportunity to understand. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear if you compare our positions with both my colleagues in Mera25 and I today on the bill, that this is a conflict between two worlds. We see sport as a sensitive area that must be part of culture - we all agree - but in order to remain potentially linked to culture and not to violence, it must be disconnected from oligarchy and from gambling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u379	I thank you, Mr President, especially for keeping the time. We are now continuing with Mrs Silver Skondra from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u380	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the New Democracy, we believe that sport is a social and cultural asset that of course improves ourselves and also our society. We believe it is the place of noble speech and it is a means of socialization and treatment. The relevant Minister, Leuteris Augeias, a society I believe, but also a decision, like all the government, to solve problems of time, is introducing this bill today. I congratulate him on this, and also on the methodicality and hard work he has done for his training, and I am sure the results will be desirable and will appear immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law regulates ways of preventing sport from being manipulated effectively and, at the same time, introduces urgent measures to combat violence in sport. Both these negative phenomena must be stepped up and stopped their unpleasant consequences that affect the whole of the sport world, the fans, the whole society and much more young people. In simple terms, fanaticism, hooliganism and diversions are not in any way consistent with the spirit of euphoria and especially in our country homeland of olympism and a global cradle of sport. It is therefore an even greater responsibility for all of us. Let us realise that violence on the ground, as in other sports events, is not simply dealt with in words, it wants action. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin by ratifying the Council of Europe Convention on Manipulation of Races. Greece was one of the first countries to sign this Convention in September 2014 and entered into force on 1 January 2019. However, its ratification remained unresolved. A framework of cooperation is created to prevent the manipulation of the games, which is directly linked to the bet and various illegal economic interests that cause, indignant and angry. Through the exchange of information and international cooperation between the competent state authorities of sports organisations and sports betting organisers, the prevention, detection and punishment of racing manipulation will be achieved. The bill contains provisions to address the phenomena of violence that still tarnish sports events in the country. It is shameful to see such images every time there is a sporting meeting and particularly big derby. Whether football is called this or basketball, when meeting "eternal opponents", we have come to consider the diversion data. Beyond the heavy financial losses, we often have victims. We have mourned victims. Also, we see innocent fans, who with their family, with little children, go to watch and enjoy a sporty temper. But this is now close to extinction. That has to change. The authorities are therefore given the opportunity to carry out sample checks, both within and outside sports facilities, in order to establish illegality. Material recorded by artificial means in the sports facilities and in the surroundings will also be used. Any criminal offence, any act of sporting violence, regardless of whether it is committed in time and place linked to a particular sporting event, should be persecuted. That's the point, ladies and gentlemen. And for those who fight, the above provision is adapted to the new data on the protection of personal data. Themes of the General Secretariat of Sports and federations are also regulated. The framework of the International Olympic Committee will now be applied, which has already been applied in several member countries. A term of office for the Presidents of the federations is hereby established, which was generally necessary. There are still economic development issues connected with regulation of the bill. In other words, a regulation is introduced to make use of the Olympic complexes, which are largely untapped and do not receive the necessary maintenance by the entities which are owners or have been entrusted with their use and management. Finally, the possibility of renting or transferring Olympic real estate to anonymous sports companies, which will deposit their investment plan for repair or conversion and will bear the operating and maintenance costs. Regarding the organisational staffing of motor sports matches, it is once again being facilitated and we will soon have good news for our country, since only tragic can one describe the loss of Rallie Acropolis, who has been lost because of the inability of the previous government. We also move on to the possibility of seconding to the General Secretariat of Sports of those Olympians appointed to the public sector. It is incomprehensible that more than a hundred Olympics have the capacity to remain untapped and cannot be given the opportunity to become ambassadors to sport and the Olympic ideal. Finally, we are dominating a new statute of the Hellenic Olympic Committee, which, by public law, is transformed into private law, since the current statute has been judged by national sports organisations, like the ILO, that it does not meet its requirements of operation in a constantly evolving legal, social and sporting context. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a comprehensive bill in our hands. It is time to take the next step in the future for Greek sport. By voting in favour of this bill, we change walking, we build the sport that Greek women and Greeks envision, we strengthen amateur sport, societalism, and we create the design of a single national strategy for sport in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u381	I thank my colleague, too. I would now ask Mr Amyras Georgios from the New Democracy to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the present draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport at a time when Greek sport is looking for its own way out of the crisis and the problems of the past. What has been the situation in recent years, which unfortunately has constantly deteriorated? Fixed games. Complaints and persecutions for armed struggles poisoned as long as the sporting environment certainly did not go. Greek football has entered international commission. In fact, he put his own memorial on his back. Violence - what about violence? - he escaped from the 'eternal opponents' derbys, whatever they were, and we had violence in women's volleyball matches, in water football matches. I don't know if Mr. Mavrotas would tell us, who was a podist, if in his years he'd ever sound like pod racing. Even in adolescent championships we have seen uncontrolled situations, dangerous, violent, detesting the idea and concept of sport. Those of us who have been through sport know this. I personally have been through the track. I was a runner in a thousand five hundred, five thousand meters. I was saying - and I think we all agree - that sport was, firstly, the means of understanding myself, as a child, by dealing with sport and secondly, as important as that, to perceive the world around me, but with principles, the principles of sport. What is the result of all these problems, which, for example, I mentioned? Instead of sport uniting and attracting families with children, young people, it clearly created a distance of safety in the world from sport. I'm glad that the Minister, Mr. Augorakis, and his staff, brought a law solid, important look into the future. It has very important provisions in it. I would say that the most important thing is that it promotes transparency - transparency everywhere - and, secondly, puts the foundations so that the sporting environment and the sporting community can become attractive and secure environments for anyone who wants to enjoy sport. I would also say that it is noteworthy that this bill is one of the first bills of government Mitsotakis. So I'm going to talk about the provisions. I'm not going to go into analysis. We have been listening to them since this morning constantly and adequately by the Minister's staff and the Minister himself. However, I have put three, four elements at the end of which I would like to comment. The first is the very important problem of violence. The device enabling the collection and recovery of material recorded by any technical means, as part of any criminal procedure, to identify hooligans shall be re-established. Is it possible for there to be a person who disagrees with the need - and with this law will be - to better control the clubs of organised fans? Is there anyone who can disagree with the provision extending the period of application of criminal provisions in respect of sporting violence at a time and place not related to a sporting event? The well-known fan dates in districts of Athens and Thessaloniki to break each other’s heads - bloody heads, bats, knives. It is a hideous environment, which I would say boldly and steadfastly, the present draft law, the Augenakis law, as we would call it tomorrow morning, is coming to deal adequately. Two more points I have distinguished, Minister. One is Rallie Acropolis. Well, of course, those problems relating to the organisation and the staffing of this organisation are finally solved. Is it possible for Greece - not to have the lead, I would say, but let us let the lead - not to be in the international caldera, the world of motor sports, on such a route and such a historic rally as Rallie Acropolis? It is an excellent provision and we will soon wait to see it implemented, Minister. Also, I distinguished the exploitation of the capacity of the hundred Olympians who were scattered over various services and no one knows what they were doing. Not that they didn't want people to do anything, but they did no matter what they are about to do - I'm glad to be sure - because they see it as duty and joy. They will be at the General Secretariat of Sports and will perpetuate the new generation with the ideals of olympism and not just. Minister, your bill, the Augenakis law, as I will say, is not sport law, but most of all political law. And I think this is an opportunity for the country's political system, for the political forces, for the political groups, for all of us here to realise that we need to get rid of the parties and serious issues to behave seriously. I therefore urge you to vote in favour of the draft law in particular. Minister, a request and an invitation. What's the request? We Epirus, the Yanniotes need your help, so that it will certainly and quickly be carried, without bureaucratic obstacles, the pre-cautionary basketball court of the Greek Olympic facilities in Yannina. We don't have a closed basketball court. We don't have closed courtesy. We want your help, Minister, and in your final speech please, if you will, give me an answer to that. We want many facilities, serious, closed, modern, because Epirus loves sport and they will surprise you - for us it is something common - with their performance when they are participating in games. Now let's go to the invitation, Mr. Augenakis. Two weeks ago, I was in the village of Klimatia. The climax is half an hour outside the Yannina. As you know, I am a Member of the Ioannina. Mr. Augias knows better than anyone else. Minister, at Clementia we launched a new field, the most beautiful field in the world, which has the most beautiful view. It's on a plateau and it sees the surrounding mountains, the continental nature and it's drowned in green. It was done under the responsibility of the Mayor of Zitsa - and good for him - the Municipality of Zitsa, Mr. Pliakou. We were all there. And who wasn't at the opening. It was Juan Ramon Rocha, Daniel Battista, Noni Lima, great forms of football. So we invite you, my dear Mr Augiakis and you and your staff, but also any other Member who wants us to do the spirit of the new law that wants us to look forward and go to watch a race of Clementia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u383	Let's play, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u384	We should play, too, the Minister says. Even better. So to make a struggle - MPs or non-Police - matters - with the Clementa AU. So I urge you again to vote in favour of this draft law. We will, of course, monitor its implementation and where we need to help, we will be first, because that is how we athletes have learned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Paschalides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the sport sector attracts enormous economic interest, and this makes it vulnerable to interventions directed at manipulating matches that bring the attention of the general public. These interventions are even more attractive if account is taken of the profits that can be derived from bets of high interest. In recent years, numerous scandals, particularly from the football field, have seen the light of publicity in various countries and have provoked strong debates on taking strong and specific legislative measures to combat sport corruption which irreversibly affects the credibility of sports performance and the social importance of sport. On the basis of all the above data, it is necessary and necessary to ratify the Council of Europe Convention signed in Macolin on 18 September 2014, which introduces mechanisms and specific procedures aimed both at preventing and suppressing the manipulation of racing. The problem is clearly not only Greek, but it is stirring up the sports world internationally. Just one reading of the findings of the surveys concerned to see how much it is. It is shocking, in fact, that almost one of the three athletes questioned said they were manipulating racings that participated either by themselves or by another team. Equally shocking is the idea that the majority of athletes would manipulate a game because of financial difficulties, for easy money. After all, it is also a statement by the former President of the German Football Federation in the German newspaper 'BILD' that 'The manipulation of matches is a scourge in football, such as doping in other sports, despite the many measures of warning and prevention that exist'. Mr. Chanciger stood in the general system of manipulation of rendezvous, which finds a good ground mainly in amateur games, but also in large professional championships. At the same wavelength time, John Abbott, the head of Interpol in the fight against corruption, has characterised the football "king of the ramps", while he has pointed out that the last years of criminal gangs worldwide have made fortunes from racing. With a view to suppressing the phenomenon of corruption in the conduct of the games, we are today dominated by this draft law by the Council of Europe Convention, as provided in particular in Articles 1 to 41. Apart from that, however, this bill demonstrates the political will of the current government to effectively combat violence on the ground and, more generally, to sport in our country. In particular, the new provisions will allow the police to carry out sample checks at any time, in and out of sporting facilities, in order to establish compliance with the provisions on issuing and putting into circulation, as well as the use of only nominal tickets in paper or electronic form. In the event that a non-nominal ticket or ticket on which the name of the person concerned is different from that of the holder is established, a fine shall be imposed against the holder. It shall, in addition, allow the police, following the authorisation of the sporting prosecutor, the collection and processing of personal data in sports establishments and their surroundings to deal with acts of violence and criminal offences. With regard to the collection and processing of personal data by means of mobile sound and image recorders by the police, useful and effective evidence is now available in the criminal proceedings, which were to date yes, but unfortunately they were not used, since they were not allowed to be used in the criminal proceedings, as the Athletic Prosecutor Mr. Constantine Simizoglou informed us. Using these elements as legal means of proof, it is also easy to identify, control and ultimately punish offenders. It is also important that the provision which provides for disconnecting the result of a fight against criminal acts of violence. The penalties provided for will henceforth be imposed on anyone who provokes violence, irrespective of the outcome of the struggle. In addition, I would like to emphasise the importance of the fourth article in Part II of this bill, because it extends the local and time limits for the implementation of sport legislation and enables people to be arrested, hooligans, who commit criminal offences in days and hours that are not related to the conduct of sports events, since most of them are called, among fans via facebook, via internet, are carried out in days and hours which have nothing to do with the sporting meeting. With regard to the terms of office of members of the Board of Directors Sports federations Councils are now effectively applying the framework of the International Olympic Committee which has already been implemented in several countries - ILO members. Please note that this draft law also provides the possibility of renting or concessioning the use for more than 10 years of any Olympic complex in a public limited company that is struggling with a maximum category of the professional championship concerned, provided that the candidate nominated company submits a specific investment plan for the recovery or repair or conversion of the Olympic installation and takes over all the costs of recovery, as well as the operating and maintenance costs. It also regulates the issues relating to our Olympians appointed in the public sector and enables them to be seconded to the General Secretariat of Sports and its supervised bodies, due to a related object, with the aim of making better use of them as ambassadors of sport and the Olympic ideal. The new statutes of the Hellenic Olympic Committee, which amends the provisions of the earlier statutes, adopted under No. 103/2000, are hereby ratified in the fifth part of the bill. The new statute has been approved by a unanimous decision of the Olympic Committee on 3 October 2019 and by the ILO on 13 June 2018. The amendment was considered absolutely necessary both because it had long been overcome by the modern developments and because the ILO had repeatedly called for the change of the statutes and for the alignment with the Olympic Charter, with the new statute for the conversion of the ILO by the Legal Person of Private Law and for its intrusion by the anchorages of the Greek State. In conclusion, I should like to say that I am particularly pleased that this bill was warmly welcomed by the overwhelming majority of Greek athletes and especially our Olympians who did not hesitate to publicly express their support for both this bill and Mr Augiakis who dared today, with this bill, to start the fight for the clearance of Greek sport. It's all our duty to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Manolakos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, everything in the world is in constant flow and movement, 'even the cyonet breaks up when it does not move' said two and a half thousand years ago. And, today, in 2019, which is happening in the past, before we still have time to blink our eyelids, there is one area in our country that has planted. It is an area that we should look after him as an eyewitness because he has often been a source of bright discrimination, emotions, national pride for the Greeks, especially in the years of the crisis. And yet, he has left himself to his fate and the only move he presents is the movement between corruption and incorporation. These pond water of business and not only sport comes to upset this bill. Many times and many times in the past are supposedly consulted and discussed with each other, interrupting and even interrupting the championships, but none of them is so because the political will is lacking. The political will, however, exists in our Government and this is clearly reflected in the provisions of the draft law in question. There is a political will to end up with those who are setting up competitions, poisoning sport at its core and in its own nature, in order to make millions. There is a political will to end with those who close the eye on the phenomena of violence and hooliganism on the stadiums to serve their own interests, but also those who are dissatisfied in this situation, but in reality they seek to create outbreaks of lawlessness, turmoil and bazaar everywhere. There is a political will to end also with those who plunge the field of professional sport by turning the federations into closed shops, which are always doing things themselves and their friends themselves, ensuring that they keep distinguished athletes, young people, worthy, with innovative ideas and appetite, ready to offer. The new sports bill on the opposite side contains provisions that will give opportunity and opportunity to young and capable people with visions and new ideas for the development and improvement of sports events in our country. There is also a political will to finish with the bureaucracy and the well-known ideals that result in the Olympic complexes, these true ornaments that have been built at such an effort and cost, have been left to the mercy of their fate and have been devastated. There is a political will to end with the logical staffing of the public sector with continents, so that at last the General Secretariat of Sport and its supervised bodies can be served with Olympics and with people with sport-related objects and field of knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, the new sports bill, which needs to be voted on by a large majority, is a truly ambitious and coherent, realistic draft law aimed at resolving chronic diseases and distortions in the field of sport. Conversely in the spirit of our Government for zero tolerance to the phenomena of violence and infraction, given that sporting violence offends us all as a society. It is time for a sense of security everywhere, in homes, in every neighborhood, in streets and in shops and of course in and out of sports facilities. This bill confirms once again that the security of our citizens is very high on our government's agenda. A special reference should be made to the sample checks established for ticket holders in and out of the sports establishments, which makes it more effective to identify and identify the persons involved in cases of violence and hooliganism. The stake, the bet, if you like, is to return families, parents and children to the stadiums and sports areas. On Sunday I was on the Karaiskaki court to watch a football match, I did see several parents with their children - and young children - on the field, but at the same time they were in some preparedness. It was reasonable that their readiness and insecurity with what they have seen happening in recent years on the field, especially when you hold your little child hand. The goal is to fill the courts with families who want to enjoy football and other sports and feel safe to do so. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer to an element which, not only should not escape our attention, but on the contrary, must bring us all - government and opposition - before our responsibilities. I am referring to how socially acceptable the bill has already been submitted within a few days, Minister. Olympians, champions, great and distinguished Greeks, who have brought dozens of successes to our country, have embraced the promoted arrangements, coming out before interviews and posters on social media that sport must take a step forward and that this bill will give him the opportunity. Personally, as an old athlete, I think it's time to hear them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would ask Mr Vassiliou Spanikas from New Democracy to take the floor. You're closing the speaker's circle, Mr. Spanaki, so you're gonna have two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u390	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be part of this debate, and I am able to place myself in a bill which I think creates the conditions for taking sport a step forward. I have listened very carefully to all my fellow Members from all sides, to their concerns, to issues that have been raised. One answer: Ausgenaki bill breaks eggs. That's what we have to keep. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like, before leaving this Chamber, to ask four main questions. Do we finally want a quality sport in our homeland? Do we want our kids to go to the field fearlessly and know they'll be back? I say this because I have experienced the event at Port 7 very close because it happened to a very own person, a fact that has injured us and a whole life is following us. Do we want transparency in sport? Let's answer this. Do we want transparency in sport? But answer another question. We want sport finally adapted to European standards, yes or no? So today the Minister, Leuteris, Ausgeris, comes, and says that we are coming to ratify the convention that our country signed five years ago on combating the manipulation of sports games, and also to vote on measures to combat violence in sport and in general. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, sport must go one step ahead, leave those and those who draw sport down. For here today, with the provisions of Leuteris Aygeakis, sport is finally standing on its feet. And because all the Members of the Greek Parliament are receiving demands and issues from unions, I ask: If you do not have upgraded federations, renewed members of councils in federations, federations of modern times, how will you strengthen the role and everyday life of unions? Why are federations what are they? The expressions of unions and union sport. So today, with the limitation on the terms of office of members of the board of directors and presidents, we are actually upgrading the federations and thus upgrading the role of unions that have a great deal of social work. I say this because, ladies and gentlemen, I am elected to the largest constituency in the country that starts from the Painting, reaches Glyfada and ends in Callithea, Moschato and Tavros, in areas where athletics have been seen in one side by the Olympic projects ruining and on the other hand depriving neighborhoods of serious sports projects. I say this because, Mrs Sacorafa, we have often been in the Moschato neighborhood, which lacks track, swimming pool, the beach, because when the works were done here and there, some neighborhoods - and there are many neighborhoods in my constituency - were left behind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u391	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u392	If you want to open this conversation anytime. I'm open to make this conversation. Because I have a lot to say and you know it. Minister, I really would like to congratulate you, because at the moment you are bringing in a bill with divisions. It is not a small matter that today we are respecting athletes, the Olympians. It's essential to respect athletes. It's a bill with flexibility. It's a bill that's really bringing families to the court. It's a bill that puts an end to the manipulation of the games. It is a bill, a framework law, so that we can talk about sport in Greece with European standards. Ladies and gentlemen, because I am the last speaker, I would like to say that there are some issues in the Greek society that must unite us and not separate us. It is sport that must unite us. So this bill, I think all the wings of this Parliament should be voting in favour of it today. I say this because, in the past, since we are children on the field, we see a slogan 'No violence on the field'. It's nice to see it as a slogan, but in practice, you need procedures, you need a law that can provide for it in detail. So that's what today's law does. Now, if some people at the beginning of the meeting wanted to raise the issue of unconstitutionalism or because it may be about some people, sport has nothing to do with people, sport has something to do with our children, sport is about transparency, and that is why we need all the parties to vote on this bill today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the circle of speakers has been completed and I wanted to ask the rapporteurs if they wish to speak. The New Democracy? Oh, no. Mr. Burnus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. From the beginning of today's debate in plenary, we have demonstrated with evidence that the unconstitutionality, regression and photographic, roussefhetological nature of the disputed provisions of this draft law have been unconstitutional. We also fully attributed the wide picture of a universal consensus you wanted to pass through the monophone pro-government media. Your account collapsed. With our insistence on the anti-constitutionality of photographic article 8 we managed to get back the retrospectiveness and unite together the opposition, allowing you alone to pass a photographic provision on the age limit, which, due to its unconstitutionality, you will probably find before you in court rooms, as many federations have already announced, opening up the Aelo's hold in view of the anti-constitutions of sports federations in 2020. You have been summoned, Minister, but one of the incidents of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, the fact that our colleague, Mr Markus, has been convicted of Mr Sevastis. First of all, I will not hide, another issue is the whole legitimate personal disagreement and another unfair personal offense against Mr. Reverend, a man has given much, not only in the track, but in Greek sport as a whole. At the same time, however, you have avoided mentioning to your colleagues, Mr Stylianides and Mrs Pipilis, who in committee were placed on unconstitutionalism and at the same time present yourself as guardians of the terms of the terms, whereas when we brought them by the Royal Decree, you voted against them. You have called on seven to eight Olympics, but you have not referred to the view of highly distinguished athletes. Two yards and two weights. And since you didn't finally find them, not even in your own party, why do you insist? Because your aim is not to renew the federations, your aim is in view of their elections in 2020 to artificially exclude from the antiquities sports executives who are not like the government and your party and thus attempt by artificial exclusion and counteracting any democratic principle to establish New Democracy's tough party mechanisms in the federations that you are not under control today. If your aim was to renew the federation, you would not be brutally mocking the simple analogue, the quota of women, the reduced crucifixion, the existence of a second ballot that we have instituted. A similar type is your hypocritical interest in fighting violence. We know of who and how fanatic violence is being fed. All you care about is expanding monitoring within and outside lands, creating a surveillance society and criminalising indirect social protests, as they admit on a daily basis now the once axes and followers of the junta in your past ministers. That is why you do not dare legally ascribe all responsibility for the identification of tickets to OEMs and OEMs, because you know that in this case only they will be authenticly accountable for the incidents within the stadiums. You spoke of a hug, when in recent months signs and monsters have occurred, and when the recent lines on the government of SYRIZA are still ringing, cases of junta and return of regularity in the middle of populous songs and carnations. After all, you, Mr. Minister, who are today tired of violence on the field, have a black page on your political curriculum. You asked the House in June 2015 about Herodotus' punishment for the tragic death of Katsoulis and specifically about the course of the request for revocation submitted by Herodotus' administration to the SSU. You were photographed with Herodotus' agents outside the offices of the ETUC when you supported the reduction of the sentence, sending yourself a press release for your presence there. With the provision and amendment for ILO officials, you are unfortunately creating two-speed workers, even though we are not against the resolution of their loose ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u395	Mr President, my colleague has spent his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u396	You've all spent your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u397	Please, my colleague will be finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u398	He reads text all this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u399	I conclude, in order not to bother my colleague, because he has been very disturbed by the events I have mentioned before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u400	What should I be bothering about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u401	With the attempted cover-up of the judicial investigation of the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture, your Minister, when she honoured us with her presence in the Commission, spoke of a so-called SYRIZA scandal, when Mr.Javaras in the debate in the House of Law 4598/19 brought us to reconstruct the fund, acknowledged that when she went to the Ministry of Culture she saw things were not all right. Like you did with the NOVARTIS scandal and all the other scandals that we had allowed justice to investigate undisturbed, you also attempt here through the closure of the fund to obscure the situation. We are voting against your backward, photographic and in many anti-constitutional bills and we will fight alongside the healthy world of Greek sport for democracy, consolidation and real renewal, against the party plaster you are trying to impose.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Synthrakis of the Communist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr President. With the legislative improvements submitted by the State Secretary, in our opinion, we do not change the core of the draft law. As a result, our attitude in principle remains negative. If it were only the ratification of the contract, we would vote'residents'. Now, in relation to the replacement of Article 14 by the Ministerial Amendment, with which work issues of workers in the ILO are settled, we will say yes. But that does not mean agreement on our part in the conversion of the ILO by a legal person governed by public law into private law and we must inform the workers of the following observations. Firstly, the new rules of procedure for workers can change the terms of employment to the lesser. No, the relationship between public law or IDUs. The ILO's own rules of procedure do not ensure that private workers are treated as private law, that is to say, that no allowances, no fixed working hours, no holidays. Secondly, the EEIG, as a legal person under private law, henceforth, if it recruits additional workers, does not commit it to the existing employment status, but only with flexible labour relations, with what practically means. That's the real truth. Article 18 on the implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation, in order to prevent delays in major investment projects - we say on behalf of the capital - the JRC had voted against it in Law 4585/18. In this provision we will say'residences', taking into account the outstandingities that exist in ongoing archaeological excavations throughout the country and must be addressed to prevent their delay. But we are vertically opposed to the memorandum of understanding and cooperation of the Ministry of Culture and Sport with anonymous companies, which protects the investor from antiquities and not antiquities from the investor. SYRIZA started it, the New Democracy completes it. It relates to the recent development law, which removes any environmental and archaeological obstacles - the JRC voted against it as well - which speeds up major investment processes such as that of the Greek one. Article 19 which clears up the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture, we shall vote against it. The whole mismanagement of the fund is a serious issue with too many dark points. Indeed, the fund cannot continue to operate and we would agree to the liquidation proposal, but the government is moving towards the liquidation of the fund, politically closing the issue and all honey - milk - as if nothing were happening. But here, we have irregularities. What is the final report of the auditors of the General Accounting Office of the State? He's keeping secret. Why? And we are talking about expenditure of EUR 45 million 2005-2016. It is financed exclusively from public resources. The case may be pending in the courts, but the political responsibilities of the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture exist and are heavy over time by all governments. And SYRIZA's going out on the tiles today. The fund was a convenient tool for the manipulation and redemption of workers and was exploited by everyone for that purpose. Neither the proposed provisions nor the explanatory statement nor the report of the General Accounting Office of the State refer to the reasons for the dissolution of the Fund and the responsibilities of the Ministry's political leadership. A second question with Article 19 is why Law 4598/19 has not been implemented, which establishes the operation of the child service as part of the Ministry of Sports. Because the department has not been fully constituted and the children's station continues to be subject to the fund today. Because so far, the workers have not been permanently permanentd. Thirdly, what is the reason why the phrase ‘in the course of liquidation the function of the child station shall not be interrupted’ at the end of paragraph 2. Does the government intend to close the station after the liquidation of the fund? Also, why the word ‘may’ be deleted at the beginning of paragraph 4 and replaced by the words that the Ministry covers the beneficiaries. Here comes the amendment to the Change Movement, which we agree with. We have no objection to accept it. But it's inconsistent with the possibility. So, on the one hand, you can't say that I'm inclined to incorporate the undetermined time into their spending on the kindergartens and, on the other, you can say. So there is a question and you need to answer that. And secondly - in relation to this again - you cannot in a scandalous way, such as Article 19, incorporate the issue of the kindergarten and the work of workers at nurseries. If you brought it separately and with its removal, we would base this amendment on the Change Movement. But we cannot accept Article 19. We are therefore voting against it. As has been done with Article 13-14, which concerns the ILO. It's separated. Article 13 concerned the conversion by a legal person of public law into private law and Article 14 concerned their work, which we are of course voting on. So we do not think it is right. One last for 19. Why don't you join fixed-term contracts for workers' children at the nurseries? Don't they have a soul? Shouldn't these be taken to kindergartens? Why are we separating them? What are children of a lower god? Finally, Article 20 provides for two additional posts of posted officials in the Archaeological Resources and Simplification Fund. In our view it's photographic. No, it alone does not cover the increasingly growing needs of the fund and indeed with permanent staff, but it comes mainly to serve the needs of the members of the fund's board of directors. We are of course opposed to that, and that is why we are voting against Article 20. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u404	Thank you too, Mr. Synergy. Mr Constantopoulos has the floor on behalf of the Movement of Change.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u405	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Change-PASOK Movement has in time supported Greek sport, with initiatives, arrangements for its better functioning, both at institutional and organizational level. In discussing today's draft law in plenary and during the preparation of committees, we have specifically put our positions and proposals on both the subject of ratification of the Macolin Convention, which we agreed with the principles and framework laid down by the Convention, and the fight against and manipulate sporting games and illegal bets. We expect the immediate implementation of these by you, Minister, and indeed by the establishment of an appropriate institutional framework immediately. As far as the fight against sport violence is concerned, the improvements are necessary in the institutional framework and we fully agree on both the nominal ticket and the improvement of the framework for the prevention and treatment of violence in the field, as well as the punishment of the parties involved. On motor sport there were serious complaints about the arrangement that allowed referees to be members of unions, as well as of the federation. It is a good thing, Minister, that we are confined to sportsmen and judges. However, the objections remain on the ground that these persons have an active role in the struggles and in the control of compliance with the regulations. For Olympic Real Estates in the first place we have asked for rules to be laid down for leases and not to be initial submission of a business plan. With the legislative changes that you brought, a specific framework is set in the rental of Olympic Real Estate to ensure that the most advantageous offer is chosen and that the benefit from the maintenance and repair of these properties remains always for the public. As far as Article 8 is concerned, we have pointed out the need to renew and alter persons in the administrations of the federations. We support, Minister, the terms of reference, so as to serve the purpose of the renewal which we have not seen until now. After all, we said 'yes' to the immediate application of the terms, doing the renewal from now on, without, of course, age racism. The retroactiveness of the arrangement was correctly removed, as we and other parties requested. However, the introduction of the age limit raises doubts as to the constitutionality of the regulation, as our parliamentary representative, Mr Kamine, said. We invite you to withdraw it. Since it is an article that we are practically in agreement with in its entirety, we will have to not vote on it. It is a positive provision for the Hellenic Paralympic Committee and the federations, even in the way you brought them. I would remind you that it is under a specific legal regime, as you well know. Minister, for the Greek Olympic Committee the regulation you have brought is in line with our observations on the protection of workers' rights. However, we also expect you to see the issue of the explicit discharge of the Hellenic Olympic Committee in respect of ENPIA. You were also right to accept the amendment we tabled to extend the coverage of the costs of hospitality to children's stations and children who are subject to workers who are in the legal persons of the Ministry of Culture and are, of course, supervised by the Ministry of Culture. We expect you to accept our proposals. Finally, I should like to stress that in principle the bill from the Change Movement has been voted on, and most of our articles are in agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Please, Mr. Booba from the Greek Solution take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u407	Minister, you know very well that this ministry you have undertaken has a lot of discrimination. We have been proud of this caste, this pantheon of athletes, of all sports, without exception. But it's also a ministry with bruise points. So, call on you to pay attention to what Bismarck said, this great German: Politics can be the art of practicable, but also smart is the one who doesn't learn from mistakes of his own. He's the one who learns from the mistakes of others. Be careful, then, and do not give reason. We, in fact, will be charming to change the status of sport in all really sports. There are unjust athletes who have no facilities to train, and they have immediately made us proud on the ends of the Earth. Away from barracks, factions, teams and "blooded" match. People want transparency. What today is heard in coffee - sports for every variance of scores, any struggle in Greece and abroad is that he loses his credibility the king of sports, football. So people think that because of the bet, because and how many times a player will scratch his head that this is in the bookmakers, everything that's been bet on. We urge you, protect the youth from gambling. It's an addiction without turning around. We'll be sick. You'll be grateful for the next generations. The children are unemployed today, well-meaning, unfortunately manipulated by the Mass media, we would say, "promotion" of things, in the sense of a fanaticism cultivated in gambling and believe in an easy solution. That's not panacea. They must open children's souls and minds. We're not saying, there's gonna be a bet, but it's got to be liberated. Be careful and do not give reference to articles such as Articles 8, 9, 13, 19 and 20. Be careful about the Hellenic Olympic Committee, you change it, you make it a legal person of private law. It does not, however, lose the privileges of the public. If it's to be private, why continue to enjoy these privileges? As far as the Olympic Real Estate is concerned, if you prove that you will "explore" - in the good sense - the property of the Greek people, the Greek people will welcome it positively. The Greeks are still bitter about what they paid for in the Olympic Games, which are full of these Olympic real estates, without being properly exploited. Watch the mentors. The core wants both the neutrons and the protons, he wants the satellites to work. The mentors, however, really are close to you and with knowledge and passion for what is called sporting ideal, for what is called sporting spirit, Olympic idea if you like. All this needs to be careful. Get people who have the corresponding university spiritual qualifications, as you do with the Fund of Archaeological Resources. Don't take people just to get them. Don't put age limits. Put limits on people's terms so they don't get stood up. The age limit goes away elsewhere, Minister. When you tell someone that over seventy or seventy-five you can't be a MP, you can't be a district manager - because, you know, the districtlors have no other term, there's confinement - when you tell a Federation President that after seventy or seventy-five you can't be in this neural position, then you're isolating him man-made. I mean, you're telling him you're no longer fit for your health to cope with. You decommission him and consider him unusable. So do deep sections and we will, in fact, be charming with you in a sensitive and very important ministry that you have undertaken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr. Booba. I would now ask the Vice-President, Mrs Sakova, to speak on behalf of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u409	Mr President, thank you. I will say a few words about the price of arms, because we have said everything in the committee and today too. Both colleagues and the Minister have raised quite a number of these issues. It is one of the most important, I would say, bills, because it concerns, as I said in my position, a very important part of our society, first of all, our youth and all citizens. You will allow me to say I was young and old, Minister. My hair was white because I entered very young in this space and I have all these years served what is called sport from all positions, either as a simple athlete in a small gymnastics club in a provincial city, either as a champion, or as a teacher in Middle Education and in the private sector as well. All that you have said, and I hope - and I hope - will become a reality and I have heard from other colleagues, I have been listening to them for too many years, Mr President. It's been a long time! None of this has happened, and it's never gonna happen. It's never gonna happen, because they don't decide to do it. We have laws and have had laws on transparency and money control and on everything. You know that very well, and the secretary-general knows that you're sitting behind you and he's a athlete. Nothing's ever been checked. So what I'm trying to say right now is that this contract you're bringing for me is a blessing. If this is not the case, we will never end with this big rocky thing called violence in the sports space and that is no longer just football, but it has covered other sports and other sports spaces. So I say that if we really want to overcome this problem, what we need to invest is the question of education. You will allow me to say that no one is involved. I'm talking to you as a teacher right now, the time I spent in schools. At one time training hours at school were too many. Now they're constantly down and I don't know if they're gonna get them out of the program. We've lost a great opportunity with the Olympic Games. We missed the opportunity to find out what our kids mean by fairplay. It's over. There isn't. You said very well about the Olympians and you did very well. You'll take them to you and you really will have to with a very specific program to do training, go to school. Because that's their job to give back what the state invested on them. Because it was an investment what the state of Olympians did. You are absolutely right about that. But if they don't have a program, they won't do anything at all. [[This is where the ending bell of Mrs Vice-President's speaking time is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, very briefly. But you will allow me to make a little comment. You have referred to too many people, but I have not heard that there is an athlete in the track to talk about these issues. You will allow me, too, to say that I and the Secretary-General of the SEGA, who is at the moment Mr. Reverbally, have been in conflict too many times. I don't have the best relationships. However, I have to admit that this Federation of the track with Mr Panagopoulos and Mr Sevastis, who took a step back and gave the presidency to Mr Panagopoulos, in order to get this new air that you said, at the moment I think it is a Federation model, a Federation that other federations should imitate. This is because at the moment - you know very well - throughout the world, what is being presented is a federation, which is playing games, which bring to Greece not only very great names, but they also bring money, Minister. So, it's not about refreshment in faces, it's about how much in their hearts, in their souls they have the love for what they do. They have the experience they don't get so easily if you're in the track if you don't wear dresses if you don't run if you don't get tired if you don't sweat, you'll never know what sports is. So that's where you're gonna have to take very good notice of it. Do not make a tragic mistake and take out of space people who, as I said in my speech, are lovers of sport and offer selflessly. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u410	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa. The Minister for Culture and Sport has the floor, Mr Aygeakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u411	First of all, I should like to thank everyone and all of you, because despite the end of the hour and despite the fatigue you are all here, we are all here and we are discussing an extremely important issue. I am starting with what we all agree on, that it is indeed an important bill, because it concerns youth, it concerns our athletes, it concerns our future. I would like to respond to two or three issues which have been raised, mainly the closure. First of all, there is nothing personal about any President, Commander, executive member of any federation. So it goes without saying that our cooperation will continue, as it has so far been. It is our duty to do it and we will do it, to be sure of it because we have in front of us and the Olympic Games. Besides, if you remember in my speech - and if you held it back - we are announcing in the next few days a nice - in my opinion, you will judge it on your side - a campaign for the adoption of athletes, because we are interested in strengthening our athletes, since we do not have infinite state, public money. We do not have such amounts to cover everything and all the needs of our athletes to prepare for the Olympic Games, which are great and that is the reality. This is how we activate from the ordinary citizen to the minimum, to the entrepreneur who wants to strengthen and strengthen, of course. So we're putting the private economy more into the sports effort, ahead of the Olympic Games, in a way that is transparent, clean and above all targeted. You referred to the example of the SEGA. I would like to congratulate Mr Panagopoulos and particularly Mr Panagopoulos, because this weekend he achieved a small sporting miracle. Over sixty thousand runners, in a two-day for the first time, were found in Athens. Sports tourism, but also a sporting event. It's an excellent combination. And let me tell you something. Mr Panagopoulos has achieved something which has unfortunately not been done by several federations and administrations. That is to combine state funding, but also the possibility for the market of money with various forms of donations to have stock and every time to take action and manage to put aside some money to make use of them in the next action. So this model, with a face of fresh that has closed two terms and that he himself has stated in advance that "I am finishing, I have made two terms and I leave alone", is an example to be imitated. Well, you did, and we fully agree. SEGAS, Panagopoulos, march, route, excellent! Of course, we have other cases of federations that have made a bright course and in which there are persons who may have births, may have years. It does not mean, however, that at some point they should not try and test and give space and opportunity to younger people. Watch something. If you read in the legislative improvement, no one is allowed to help. You said volunteers, offer. Of course! Is that possible? Of course! We have already referred to this in the provision and with roles and powers which the Governing Council will decide whether the limits we have set have been met. It is possible to offer sport, federation, club, and other roles. So there is no exclusion, there is nothing personal. I can barely say to you that since Monday morning our effort and cooperation will continue with everyone and the Olympic Committee, of course, for the best ahead of the Olympic Games. Money control: let me inform you that in the next few weeks there is a check-up, especially in some federations. We agree that too much has been said and that is what we have been worried about. Yes, it will be financially audited for the proper management of money either privately or publicly or money that arrives through the Olympic Committee to the federations' funds, because we have some complaints, especially about three - four that have been heard too much and have reached us too much. There'll be a check and you'll be briefed soon. As far as the Macolin Convention is concerned, I would say that it is very interesting. That is why we have embraced her from the first moment, and as I said before, there is a timetable. There is no unlimited time. It's not a penalty that we started and we'll see in the future when we have an appetite again. Within three months there has to be a platform, it has to run. It does not mean that it is automatically completed. A constant effort will be made to update the data, strengthen even more communications, cooperate with domestic and European organisations. Within three months we hope, first God, that we will have complied with our timetable and been activated. Rally Acropolis, I heard very interestingly mention it. I'll let you know that we've made a great effort on this. We hope that if not him, even next year, we will be able to return to our country again. It was one of the mistakes of the previous government, unfortunately. I hope that we will also fix this, as will some others left in time and, unfortunately, we have lost them as a country. Olympic properties. You've said a lot of things, I believe it, too. They must be exploited even now, after so many years. We all understand that. This isn't the image of the OASA. He doesn't thank anyone. When I first went to visit all the facilities, Sunday afternoon unforgettable, I returned and had a sadness. I had gone years ago, when it was still bright, bright, new, a little after the struggles and I saw this picture of the collapse, an image that was sad. That is why we must not move too quickly. I hope that we will be in progress, see how we can use it, and very soon I hope that we will be able to announce a few initiatives to you. Olympians: it sounded two - three times something that really surprised me. We won't force them to come and do things they don't want. That is clearly what the provision says. If they so wish, they will be transferred to the General Secretariat of Sports this year or to the bodies which already belong to us. If they are Thessaloniki they will go to our services there, if they are in Crete they will go to ours wherever they are, and they will go into a program of course. It will not be for everyone to do their own work, but for an organised programme that will be evaluated and documented the results of this work. I'm sure they'll have to live again, because they've snatched themselves into places that they really don't deserve to be squandered and do the job, the right job that any other employee does. But they know how to do something else better. Let us take them where they triumph, offer and revive themselves, and of course they will best carry the sport and what they have learned through their course in sport. Greek Olympic Committee: we have a loose end which, due to the pressure of time, has not been covered and is the issue of HISFIA, as has been tabled by Mr Kapralos for the OAS, but mainly for Karaiskakis. We have already spoken with the Ministry of Finance, this provision will come to a later bill very soon. Now it didn't take time for us because they needed a whole series of approvals to be made. Let me make a small comment, because I cannot stand it, as Mr Burnus of SYRIZA has said. It's a shame, we've got a nice climate, it's sounded so good. Even if we disagree, we agree that this field is very critical. We do not need to use phrases and words that do not honor anyone. And much more you, being a young man, a young politician. Even the vocabulary is a stranger to this object we are discussing today. That's why I'm saying that even if we disagree on some things, I'm sure we'll agree on a lot more. From the next day to start working systematically and in a good mood, because we have things that we can agree on and above all that we can build together. The fact is, there's been a lot of mistakes. Because if there were no mistakes, we wouldn't be talking about problems today. Nor would they come out so loudly, dozens, hundreds of known and unknown athletes, and not even talk about this issue, for this bill. There is a problem in this area, and here there is no one who is poorly accountable. The Macolin Convention is five years in the drawer by Mr Vassilidis and Mr Kontonis. Hey, don't they have a responsibility? Sure. But we have not stayed on this and insist on how useful it is and what it can offer. I would therefore ask you to proceed from the day after tomorrow, after the vote on this bill. That's why I'm asking to work harmoniously. Sport is a field that can unite us and not separate us. That is why I would also like to say a great thank you to all the Members who have asked for and spoken, a great thank you to the rapporteur on the party I come from, Mr Calliano and, of course, to all the rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives, but one more to the Lebanese cave that ties us with personal friendship. I should also like to thank the last speaker, Mr Spanakis, for his good words and to say to Mr Amyras that the two requests he made are acceptable. Finally, I thank the colleagues and servants who have worked under very difficult conditions, several weeks now, so that we can be consistent in all of us. Be well. Thank you very much, and I hope to vote in favour of at least most of the articles in our bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, too, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is finalised: "Following the Council of Europe Convention signed at Maglingen/Macolin on 18 September 2014 on the manipulation of sports matches, urgent measures to combat violence in sport, conversion of the Greek Olympic Committee to PPP, ratification of this new statute and other provisions". We're entering the vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u413	Mr President, there is one point in the vote. That is to say, a number of articles are listed and at the end of the day they have the amendments, but they are, in fact, the amendments. So how will it happen? So Article 14, which has been replaced by the amendment, why do we have to vote twice?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u414	One is the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u415	The amendment is one. However, in the order of articles it says 'Article 14' and what you want to vote on. In the end, he has the amendment, but we are voting on it as an article. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u416	You mean to say that the amendment has been incorporated into the text...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u417	It has been replaced and it says it: 'Article 14 has been replaced by the amendment'. Why should we vote twice?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u418	Let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u419	For example, it is the amendment to the Change Movement that we agree but has been incorporated into Article 19, with which we disagree. So how are we going to vote against Article 19 and then agree with the amendment, which is embedded in the 19 that we are voting against?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u420	If it's the way you say it, let's see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u421	Let's see it now, 'cause we're voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u422	It's not something that depends on us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u423	You must tell us what we are going to do because we cannot complete the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u424	Tell us what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u425	Mr Synthraki, I am told that this is a practice which does not create confusion, because in the FEK it will normally go after it. In the 'innard' this is done. It is common that the amendments should be voted on at the end. But then, when it becomes FEC, it will enter Article 14. It therefore appears to be voted twice, but in fact as an article it will then be voted on. What contradiction do you think is being created?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u426	This, for us as a Communist Party of Greece, applies in the case of Article 14, with which we agree and coincide with the amendment. However, in Article 19, with which we disagree on the integrated amendment, we cannot then vote separately on the amendment with which we agree. It should not be incorporated into Article 19. If the amendment is special, in some ways as a separate article, it should not be embodied in Article 19.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u427	Listen, Mr Co-Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, the amendment came as Article 14. However, as the parliamentary amendment has been tabled, not the Minister's amendment, i.e. instead of the amendment being put into an own-initiative article, the amendment entered Article 19 as a legislative improvement, obviously entered into the text. You say 'I want to vote for 14, I want to vote for the amendment which is 14, but in 19 I do not want to vote on it.' Isn't that what you're saying? So there will be a contradiction that you are voting on an article, the 14 that you want, but in 19 you are voting against it all. That does not bother you, because in fact what you want, you are voting on it. But it is a question and you are doing well to put it because I at the Conference of Presidents will put it to the vote to see how it can be dealt with so that this confusion does not happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u428	Mr President, this is not a simple problem, it is a point of order. It's a real policy. In Article 14, the matter is resolved. In Article 14, we agree, it is in itself an amendment. Unfortunately, since the amendment itself is in itself at the end, but in any case, since 'yes' is both in the amendment and in the article, there is no question. But there's a point of order, I don't know what you need to solve...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u429	We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u430	There is a question for Article 19. In Article 19, the amendment to the Change Movement that we agree is integrated, but we disagree with the whole of Article 19. I have said in the second sentence that you are, in practice, canceling the amendment with one phrase. So I cannot go back to the end to vote in favour of the amendment when the amendment itself, embedded in Article 19, is annulled. Understand? It's a political matter. In this respect, I say that there is a question with Article 19.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u431	Let the amendment be separated and come out of Article 19. All that can be done is to set the amendment as a new article.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u432	Is there a procedure, Mr President, to exclude these two articles and to come here to another procedure for their adoption?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u433	I will repeat what I said at the beginning, perhaps it was not understood. Article 14 is the ministerial amendment. The amendment has entered Article 14. Article 19 is an incomplete article. The KINAL parliamentary amendment, which should normally be introduced into 19 as a legislative improvement of 19 and not as an amendment, is being tabled because, otherwise, this contradiction is actually created now by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u434	That's what he said. It is incorporated into Article 19.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u435	It's both happening!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u436	I understand that for you. But you vote for the 14 that you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u437	Let go of 14!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u438	Okay, we've got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u439	Let's just say there's no 14 of me. It can be from another party, for example, that there was a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u440	Not even from us!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u441	It's not a question of solving it here. The point is that it can also arise in another bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u442	That's why I'm saying in next bills...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u443	Well, in any case, 14 is solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u444	I will take it to the Conference of Presidents and we will resolve it definitively from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u445	Article 19 does not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u446	Yeah, it can't be solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u447	It can't be solved. So I personally refuse to vote twice the same thing...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u448	Let it be voted as it is, and if necessary...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u449	...and one to vote 'yes' and the other to vote 'no', i.e. it's crazy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u450	Yeah, okay, I get it. You vote 'no' the whole article, while it could have been if it had done so by way of legislative improvement, that it was simpler.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u451	If it had come as a separate provision, as a separate article, we would have voted on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u452	If the Minister accepts it, it should come as a special article.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u453	Ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting for five (5') minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u454	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. As I have already said, and after speaking with the President of Parliament now, I would like to tell you that the President accepts this issue to the Conference of Presidents for future legislation, as you said, Mr Syntagakis, and that is how it will be done. Now, things will stay the same. Articles will be voted on as they are and you will not vote on Article 19, as you said, and if you wish, you can make a statement. I also spoke to the President of Parliament now, and we finally decided what I said at the beginning. It will take the matter to the Conference of Presidents, so that this issue can be resolved once and for all. So there is no problem. Anyone who wants to vote on Article 19 does not come to an end. Mr. Synthrakis didn't just say that about this piece of legislation. Sometimes in the future, issues will arise. We'll work it out. Let us continue with the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u455	Mr President, can I clarify the position of the JRC?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u456	Mr. Synthraki, you can do this. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u457	We refer to two articles. Firstly, Article 14, which has incorporated the Ministerial Amendment, which we agree with. We therefore agree with this Article 14 as well. We are voting against Article 19 anyway, but we cannot accept as a procedure the amendment which is already embodied in Article 19 and with which we agree and enter the process of voting, which is why we reserve it. I do not know, if it has to be said so, that we are being reserved, but in any case there is this loose end on our part.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u458	It has been understood and it is clear what you said, because Article 19 does not only have the amendment, but also has other provisions with which you disagree. You are therefore voting against Article 19 as a whole. After that clarification, it has ended and I think that you are voting on Rule 14, which incorporates the Ministerial Amendment, and therefore there is no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u459	There is nothing in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u460	The rapporteur for the Change Movement, Mr Konstantopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u461	Mr President, we are voting on Rule 14 as it stands. Let it have incorporated the Ministerial Amendment, we are voting 'yes', as is Article 19 which has incorporated our own amendment that we brought as a Change Movement. As far as the two amendments which are coming to us are concerned, will we vote again?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u462	You, Mr Constantopoulos, have no problem with this because you are satisfied with it. The Minister welcomed the proposal, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u463	We are voting on both articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u464	Mr Burnu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Mr President. We have exactly the same problem with regard to Article 19 as the representative of the Communist Party. In other words, while we are against the article - and this is illustrated by the positions of all of us today - the amendment brought by the Change Movement could be seen positively, but as the electronic voting system is structured at the moment, I, while voting against Article 19 as amended, have before me a three-fold option that is distinct from the amendment, which already says 'as amended in Article 19'. Somebody has to tell me what to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u466	Are you voting for Article 14?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u468	So it's the same placement...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u469	The problem is Article 19, it was never Article 14.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u470	Well, you're not voting on Article 19. That's the end of it. We're gonna fix this. It is a process that must pass through the Conference of Presidents and we shall make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u471	So, can we not vote on this amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u472	Politically and following the statement and clarification and position of the Bureau, no one is going to criticise your parties that you allegedly believe this particular paragraph of Article 19 incorporating the parliamentary amendment does not make it known, you do not vote against it, because you have done the great thing, you have voted on the whole of Rule 14. It is therefore an arrhythmia, I would say, which we will correct.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u473	So we are not going to go through any of the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u474	You are voting on Rule 14. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u475	We are voting for Article 14 positively, Article 19 negatively and on the amendments, which are the last two, I do not press any buttons.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u476	Mr. Synonymous, thank you very much for tracking it down. It is an issue that we will resolve. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of the articles, of the amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check or revise it by the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u477	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u478	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u479	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Following the Council of Europe Convention signed at Maglingen/Macolin on 18 September 2014 on sport manipulation, urgent measures to tackle violence in sport, conversion of the Greek Olympic Committee to NLPD, ratification of this new statute and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle, of articles and of the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u480	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u481	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-15-S1-commons.u482	With the consent of the House at 22.00 noon, the sitting for the next Monday, November 18, 2019, at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's proceedings: Parliament's decisions: a debate on the revised provisions of the Constitution, in accordance with Rules 110 of the Constitution and 119 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
