ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out. Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 25 October 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Corfu of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros - Christos Ayloniti to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Department of coastal front to the Municipality of Central Corfu". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 118/21-10-2019 by the Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Application of measures on the unacceptable and unjustified high charges of banks in simple procedures and a great burden on consumers by using debits and credit cards". 3. The Question No 129/22-10-2019 by F' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The operation of the paediatric clinic of the General Trikalon Hospital." 4. The question by No 122/2222-10-2019, by MP, North Athens Division of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis, to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Insert police forces to two films in Athens during the screening of the film "Joker". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, Member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, raised by Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos, Vice-President of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 119/22-10-2019 topical question by the MP Corfu of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Biagi to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Previous abandonment of Achilles’. 3. The question asked by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nicolas Papastastasis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Escalation at the Lefkada Hospital and the primary health care of the region". 4. The 114/18-10-2019 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, Minister for Health, on the subject: "Application for approval for the medical treatment of Panagiotis - Rafael Glossiotis". 5. The 134/22-10-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, entitled 'Legal compensation'. 6. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthakis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To operate the Recyclable Materials Selection Centre (KDAS) in the Industrial Area of Heraklion (BIPE) with the guarantee of jobs and the occupational and insurance rights of workers". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Mr Kritonas Arsenis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Arsenis for his excellent report. 8. The Question No 135/22-10-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance on "To take immediate action on the arbitrary and excessive charges of banks to consumers and businesses". Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to inform you that, in a document, the Secretary-General for Legal and Social Affairs informs the House of the following: ‘We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent debate within Parliamentary Control that on Thursday 24 October 2019 the topical and urgent questions to be debated are as follows: The 113/17-10-2019 and the 133/22-10-2019 topical and urgent questions will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis. The 115/21-10-2019 topical question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Mavroudi Voridis. The question under number 131/22-10-2019 will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Domna - Maria Michaelidou. The 116/21-10-2019 and 120/22-10-2019 topical questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Theodoros Livanios. The Question No 121/22-10-2019, addressed to the same Minister, will not be answered because of lack of competence. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question will be discussed under number 116/21-10-2019, first question by the MP of Heraklion, the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenides, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Assessment of requests for the re-establishment of the Municipality of Alikarnassos, Zarou, Ruva and Tymbakion of the Prefecture of Heraklion". Mr. Igoumenides, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, as you know, from the implementation of KALIKARATIS, by redefining the administrative boundaries of the primary authorities of local government and the subsequent combination of municipalities, there have been - and we can say so with the experience of the years of implementation - a number of malfunctions. It has come to some areas that even this very sustainability of the local government and, most importantly, that is why I come with this question - the lives of the inhabitants of these regions have considerably diminished. The fact is that the previous government, precisely in order to avoid spasming movements, which would possibly correct the mistake by another mistake, that is, the concept of 'bad combination, let us go back to the before', which caused the merger because of the problems that existed, opened a debate on what must be done. I would say that, after this debate, for the first time in March 2019, some borderline cases were dealt with by legislation. At that time the Minister of Interior spoke with these arrangements for municipalities that were on border. He talked about studying and evaluating all the other mature demands. He mentioned the examples which I have included in my question from Heraklion, but which, as has been seen in the debate, relate to the whole of the territory. He talked about drawing up relevant studies and suggesting the necessary arrangements for re-establishment or non-citizens in the next period. These requests from these local communities, I would like to say, as a general rule, are assembling, if not all, the overwhelming majority of these societies and the bodies with which they are expressed by the rural associations - we are talking about countryside which are also the productive bodies - but also the other productive bodies in the regions, cultural associations, sports clubs, the parishes of the respective communities, self-government bodies, which, through popular assemblies, have been set up as a committee for the restoration of the municipality. There are many cases, many proposals, with serious arguments, but with a different maturity of documentation, and for which we are waiting for some answers: what stage is this assessment of requests and what is the timetable of the Ministry? I believe that we are waiting to hear truths, and the local societies that have similar issues and we too, with a view to respecting the constitutional principle of equality of their services to citizens. I believe that here we will agree, Minister, that the criterion of any reconstruction of local government is the most appropriate and effective management of local affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Igoumenides. Before the Secretary-General responds, I should like to point out to everyone that we need to keep track of the times, because the legislative work follows. It's about sixty people who have to talk, and we have to catch up. The Minister for the Interior will now answer Mr Theodoros Lebanon for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Igoumenidis, in 2010 in fact, there was a change of spatial planning at primary level with the "KALIKRATI". A number of criteria, which were observed by all the municipalities, were then laid down by these three hundred twenty-five that were created at the time. Among these criteria were ten thousand permanent populations to remain self-sufficient, the special provision for mountainity, which could be an exception to the population criterion, the principle of "one municipality per island", which existed in all the islands of the country with the exception of Crete and Evia. So on the basis of these criteria, then, the placement of the Heraklion Prefecture had been made by the then political leadership of the Ministry of Interior. Throughout the period of 2010, the first quarter-five months until the vote, there was a body of requests from all regions of Greece, which for alpha or beta speech, whether they wanted another placement or wanted some to stay as they were until then. I am saying this for the criteria: when the previous government of SYRIZA came to space and proceed with the splitting of municipalities in five cases, in Corfu, in Kefalonia, in Samos, in Lesvos and in Serbia and increased the number of municipalities and went to the three hundred thirty-two, we had this paradox: We had Kefalonia which, both in population and in extent, is much smaller in Lesvos, which has acquired three municipalities, obviously because the political pressure exerted by Kefalonia was much greater than that exercised by Lesvos. Lesvos, with about - if I'm not wrong - close to the two million acres of land, acquired only two municipalities. Corfu acquired three municipalities, with the central municipality actually having the lion's share as regards the population. In any case, a legislative regulation has been made. This legislation - and I am given the opportunity today to say it - has had to intervene four times so far. And in the bill we are discussing, there are two other cases that we are dealing with the issues of the fragmented municipalities. It was a very complex process, it created too many problems. So because - because time is running out - in March, when there was talk of the breaking up of the municipalities, the political leadership of the Ministry of the Interior - and I tell you from experience, I am 100% sure - was found in a body of demands, especially a few months before the elections to create dozens of municipalities, a committee was set up, which will examine the demands. In order to answer the question itself, the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior is not at present considering any change in Greece's spatial map, as has been established so far. What will be done is within the Code of Government, which will start to be drafted in a few weeks by the committee, will examine all the parameters, in order indeed to address the problem of municipal decentralisation and decentralisation of the services of the municipalities, in local and municipal communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. However, it is clear that you are not considering any change in the spatial planning of the municipalities. However, I believe that two things, and you will allow me to say them, because you have seen that in my protology, precisely because there are a lot of people waiting for answers, I have avoided mentioning or putting myself on the table, more questioning was whether to answer a few things. I believe two things. That's what I'm gonna stand for, and I'm gonna close my dentistry. The first is this debate which has been opened or which is being held, not to be fooled, at best hurts the cohesion of local societies. It is therefore a debate that is, of course, substantiated on several occasions. It is a debate with serious arguments at all. There are arguments relating to historical, martyristic municipalities, productivity, in many things. There is also the adversarial of power in the union. It was just him who created the redefinition of the municipalities with the "CALL". In my opinion, the government must give clear answers so that this debate does not perpetuate itself and does not go on forever, which has nothing new to offer since the arguments on both sides have been formulated. The second thing I would like to say, Minister, is that in my opinion, the centrifugal tendencies developed by the existing municipalities are mainly due to a deterioration in the lives of the citizens of these regions. My village was cleaned every day. Now that we joined once a week, or the fortnight passes a dump. And stuff like that. I believe that here was a wrong argument that was heard about the combination of the municipalities. A service with zero to one in five, combined with the other service of the neighbouring municipality with zero to one in five. Three people were gathered. Good. We have three people. There's a service. Yeah, but the new city that emerged doesn't want three. He wants fifteen. As far as this argument was wrong about the merger, the same mistake is the retreat and the answer to the consent to that name or we have no personal, etc. The third remark in this connection is that all the self-government - I stress the 'all' - regardless of party position and regardless of party pre-election support, all the self-government, Mr Minister, are talking about unprecedented funding - for the data of local government - which had been in the last four years. I believe that in the planning, along with the debate to provide clear answers to local communities and self-government, there must also be an aid plan with the necessary enthusiasm of all the services of all the local government bodies. This will help upgrade the services provided. And in relation to this and to close: finally, if we assume that from this whole debate, as you said, two, three, five new municipalities will be created on the ground. I'm talking about territory. I'm not just talking about Heraklion Law. This timetable of this course, how will it be done? What's next? When will these municipalities be? Will they be prepared now and will it be before the next self-government elections? Are they going to be in a semester? In a year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much to MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides. You will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon. Mr. Lebanon, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Igoumenides, to a large extent I fully agree with what you have said. And it's time, if you'd like, let's see. And ten years after the implementation of the 'CALKARATI' a valuation to see what went well, what went wrong. And I'm not talking about spatial planning. I'm talking about all the other part of the changes that have brought to local government. And so, to intervene wherever needed and to correct it. The truth is that Kalikaratis was actually voted at the beginning of the crisis. It has not been supported for budgetary reasons. He didn't have the necessary resources. A lot of money, which had been estimated to be given as investment tools to the municipalities, was not finally given. And as a result, problems have also been created, particularly with lack of staff. However - I said it before - the change in spatial planning is not currently being considered. Indeed. Because if you open the spatial plan, I think it won't be easy to get any criteria. In other words, there will be two, three, five or eight municipalities. And we can get back to a situation, in a Greece that has eight hundred and nine hundred municipalities. So what we are going to do is actually see the village that used to serve normally what was needed to continue serving in the enlarged municipality as well. Especially for the municipality of Heraklion, the placement was made to a large extent, following the intense odor, so to speak, of the provinces. It followed the old provinces, which in Crete, as you know, have a strong local conscience. So I don't think there'll be so many powerful centrifuges. What we should all do is sit down and see how the villages are served. The villages in particular are the heart of Greece. It's where we have to rely. We need to see how we refresh them. And we need to see how we get people to live in them and not to resort to and live in towns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. Second we will discuss the fourth question with No 120/22-10-2019 in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament 2 North Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Klonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of the Interior, on "Questions arising from the report of the Committee on Budgetary Control for the financial years 2016 and 2017". Mr. Gregoriadis, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, since I thank you, as always, for having been kind to be with us so early, to ask you my question. According to press releases, but also according to the non-governmental organisation "Vouliwatch", which did not even force the relevant committee of Parliament to reply to it, it appears that almost none of the parties in the previous Greek Parliament followed the legitimate route, i.e. it did not move any party's revenue or expenditure through the special accounts, as provided by the law, for amounts of between 1,000 and 500 thousand euros. In particular, the Party of New Democracy allocated in 2016 and 2017 its entire training grant for debt repayment to the banks and the public. In fact, in accordance with Article 3A of Law 3213/2003 the Parliamentary Audit Committee is obliged to publish the results of its audit of the parties' finances which receive state funding. To date, the Committee has published a total of three annual reports for 2015, 2016 and 2017 respectively. In all these three reports, the Committee generally finds infringements of the legislation. From the response of the Committee to the persistent request of "Vouliwatch" for transparency, it stands out for reasons, I think, of public interest, in particular, that from New Democracy in 2016 the total state training expenditure received, i.e. EUR 356,922, was retained by banking institutions and the Greek State to repay the party’s obligations. Next year, for the same reason, the New Democracy Party received EUR 519.019 for educational expenditure. In other words, within two years, the New Democracy took about a million euros for research, supposedly, purposes and illegally made them available to serve debts to banks and the public. In this case, the law stipulates that, since it would not have made available where it had to go, in the case of research, it had to return it to the state, Minister. And since she did not return them, the Committee on Budgetary Control had to force her to return them. He hasn't done it by now. Because the law stipulates that if the amount allocated to the parties for research and training purposes, if it is not spent for these purposes, is to be reimbursed, and on the basis of everything I have told you so far, I am asking you directly what action you have taken so far to ensure the compliance of the New Democracy with the principle of transparency and the law governing the economics of the parties? Secondly, if you look at legislation in general so that in future we do not repeat the same phenomena of opacity, which - I think you will agree with me - erod our own democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, too. The Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon, will answer. Mr. Lebanon, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Gregoriadis, you raise a point, which is in the nature of seriousness and concerns the very functioning of democracy. It also concerns the legal framework for the financing and control of parties, which is taking place in our country. I have to tell you about the specific issue you mentioned: Firstly, it is very important and I think it is a positive conquest of the operation of the same democracy that the committee that controls the parties' finances is not the Ministry of the Interior. Because the Ministry of Interior has a specific political leadership and is controlled by an independent committee. So this committee has every right to ask, to impose sanctions, to impose fines and to proceed to any instrument that it considers to be legal and law in order to deal with a problem. In particular, on the issue of the New Democracy, I will mention the following: From the previous political leadership under Mr Haritsis, the Legal Council of the State has been asked to give an opinion on whether the bank is really entitled to seize the grant given for research purposes on account of debt issues, the well-known issue of the loans that the party has in banks. It is therefore a question that has been asked. The Legal Council of the State in a five-member composition, in its 163/2019 opinion, unanimously agrees that under existing law the bank can confiscate the money. So the money typically New Democracy didn't make it available, she never got the money inside her fund, if you like. They were confiscated to the source from the banks. Because the committee is continuous and meets and presides the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Bourras, with members who recommend all parties - judges, oath auditors and other appropriate experts - it has every right to investigate and ask for the rest of the money or the whole of the money, and that is what has to be done in general. What we need to see and see in a short time and there is a consultation with all the parties is that we need to go further, modernise the law which controls the parties' finances, candidates, if you want, MPs, campaign costs, adapt to the new environment that includes the Internet, where, as you know, important money is spent there, for which there must be full transparency. This is in the intentions of the Ministry of Interior not directly, but it is being examined and started to prepare for legislation in general, which will cover all the economic aspects of the parties, the candidates, the Members themselves, in order to have absolute transparency and public accountability. Because you know that, like 'Vouliwatch', public information is better than a hundred audit authorities. This should generally be applied and applied in the context of law and justice, but it is very good to go ahead and have a new legal framework for modernisation, in line with the requirements of the European Union as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, since I thank you for your answer, I have a few clarifications and questions. The first thing I have to say is that for this independent committee, which controls the economics of the parties in this House, I would not personally be so proud of it, because it is apparent from the publications and from what the non-governmental organisation has informed us, the committee has finally done everything in its power to ensure that it does not respond to it, and on the 8th of a month it would go to trial because it had not responded for a long time. So with the knife in the neck, the committee answered. It can improve, I think, the answers, respond more quickly in the future and be more consistent. I am not a legal person, as you know, from the field of hypocriticals, but until now I have been convinced, inspired by me, that when there is a state requirement before everything. He's Mr. Vorides here, for our good fortune, who's probably the most valid person in the country to clarify it to us. Something tells me, then, that the state has somehow slipped to raise its demands so that the banks can catch this money. And also, the New Democracy is no small one. It's the largest party in the country, at least at the moment it's government. There's no one a bank can handle him, play on his fingers. That is all I want to ask you. I mean, it really makes me great impression whether this principle applies or not - and you know how to reply to me - whether it takes precedence over the state or not. I also want to ask you - I am very pleased about the second part of your answer, and we really all need it, all of Greece needs transparency - if you have any time. So it's a good idea for you to legislate, but about where do you see that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u17	Mr Gregoriadis, with regard to the last question, on the timetable, I believe that in 2020, next year, it will be. Because we also need to consult the parties, they also need to draw the know-how there is. We will not rediscover the wheel, there are countries where there are systems that control economics, so see what practices exist and can be applied in Greece and are appropriate for the country's data. The financial funding series has changed, if I'm not mistaken, in 2016 with a law of SYRIZA. The banks took the lead and came in. I would point out that the New Democracy did not even have time to get it in its hands, they were confiscated directly at the source, at the Ministry of the Interior. The bank sent the claim document and immediately took it. In other words, there was not even one, if you like, triangular transaction, that is to say, that the parties should take the money to the New Democracy and the New Democracy to pay the banks. They were confiscated at the source to meet the bank's requirements. I have also read with interest in the Vouliwatch report that it is really critical of the Commission's decisions. The committees on this, there must be criticism and, in any case, see what is necessary to enable it to do its work more appropriately, which may even include its composition, i.e. to see whether it is necessary to reduce the role of policies and to increase the role of experts or any other proposal that is heard during the consultation process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much. We continue with the first with the number 115/21-10-2019 topical question of the second Evia MP of the Radical Left Coalition, Evangelos Apostolos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Taking to the full external convergence of direct payments to rural areas". Mr. Apostle, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, because the issue of the topical question concerns the effort we have to make as a country to secure the Community's agricultural resources, I need a time-to-time tolerance, and I think the Minister will also need it, because this is a very serious issue. Minister, the first organised debate on the new CAP took place in Chambord, France in September 2016. The communication from the European Commission on its intentions was made in November 2017 and followed by a few days later a Agriculture Council which had as a key issue the communications on the future of food and agriculture. I am going to focus particularly on the March 2018 Agriculture Council, because that is where two proposals have actually been made to reduce aid. One was the proposal from the European Commission to reduce the CAP, the budget for the common agricultural policy and, at the same time, the framework which it proposes to be used to deal with issues relating to full, immediate external convergence. That is what the Commission is doing in terms of this. The discussion process has also highlighted the proposal of the so-called Baltic countries - Poland, which have tabled a proposal for full external convergence. We, therefore, from the first communication of the committee and until practically the March 2018 Council reacted actively and after contacts with counterpart ministers, we created the necessary alliances and wrote a joint memorandum signed in Madrid, together with the Spanish, French, Portuguese, Irish, Finnish, which called for the conservation of the resources of the Common Agricultural Policy. This memorandum was supported by nine other ministers, we presented it to the Agriculture Council on 18 June in Brussels and found a great deal of response. Indeed, the positions we have expressed have been publicly defended by the President of France McCron. We have also taken an initiative with the Italians and signed a joint declaration against total external convergence, along with other countries such as Denmark, Belgium, Slovenia, Cyprus and the Netherlands. Immediately, within the Council, we have had a meeting with Commissioner Hogan, in which we have developed with arguments and evidence that full external convergence will be disastrous for Greek agriculture. I will give you a press release in which the positions we have presented are detailed, and of course we realised that the Commissioner shares our views. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For the debate that has taken place and for the positions of all the Member States on this matter, I will give you an information note detailing the attitude taken by all the countries. [[At this point, the Member, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above information note, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] So in this process we succeeded and actually took a victory, which disappeared the word 'full convergence' in the proposal that was being discussed. In other words, the word 'complete' has disappeared in the conclusions of the Council of Presidency. We voted in favour of this proposal of twenty-three countries. It was a signicant victory. The countries that I told you before did not agree and Romania which abstained. It has already appeared from the conclusions that the Presidency has prepared. It is in your hands today. You know that, because its proposals were announced in May 2018. I shall return to my dentistry after listening to your approaches to these proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Makis Voridis. Mr. Voridis, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the issues of the common agricultural policy are obviously concerned, they are quite complex, they have quite a few chapters. You have now opened a number of issues, mainly two, although the common agricultural policy, as you know, is not two, is more. But let's stay on the two issues you've opened. With your question above all, as I understand it, you want to discuss the issue of external convergence. In your prototype, however, you referred to the issue of the level of the budget. I am going to introduce, Mr President, not to my colleague, because he understands very well because we are talking about this. But I have one concern, because it is a public debate, that this debate may evolve technically and not all of us see what these concepts are. That is why I will make a very brief introduction to my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u22	My concern is that we have legislative work afterwards, and we need to make progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u23	You'll interrupt me whenever you're judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u24	No, I can't interrupt you. You're a capable orator. You can tell them in a short time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u25	Two issues in the common agricultural policy are as follows: The first point was raised by my colleague. It is finally the level of the budget, how much it will be and whether it will be reduced. It is a very important issue, because at the same time this general debate is introduced into the common agricultural policy by individual policies aimed at leading to rural development that respects the environment, to cultivation practices which also contribute to tackling climate change. This very quickly summarizes the European Union's environmental ambitions. The great debate that is taking place is that if the European Union has environmental ambitions on one hand - which means that additional investments in the agricultural sector are needed to serve these environmental aspirations - this cannot be accompanied by a reduction in the resources of the common agricultural policy. This is a position against the budget reduction in the common agricultural policy and, therefore, this is one of the debates. There too, at the last Council of Ministers in Luxembourg, there seems to be a broad consensus on this. But where? I would like to stress this now, so that we do not have any misunderstandings. The Council of Ministers for Rural Development, in Georgia. However, this is an issue that will ultimately be decided at the summit. This will be decided by the Heads of State and, obviously, there will be some remarks, because at the same time with the need to defend - which we do and commit our Government - the resources for the common agricultural policy, at the same time we do not want to reduce the cohesion funds, there are also the issues of the so-called new policies of the European Union - some of which are of interest to us - as, for example, immigration and security policies. The second issue raised by my colleague is the question of external convergence. What is the issue of external convergence? Let me say this very simply: if you calculate the aid given to the European Union by Member State, and if you set this aid as a criterion for area aid, you build up an argument that says, for example, that there are some countries that take many and some other countries that take little. Our country with this criterion, the criterion of area payments, is in the countries that get much. The countries that take little and say that this is not right and that they must be equated - that is convergence, they must converging - that aid per hectare, per hectare, will take the same. This argument is contradicted by the Greek side, but not only by the Greek side, saying that this cannot be the main criterion. The criterion to be adopted to decide how convergence of this type is to be achieved is the criterion of rural development, that is to say, how much money each household receives, each farm, each farm, how much money is paid. If we set this as a criterion, there you will automatically see that Greece is at the bottom of the aid. Who do we have allies on this and who do we have rivals? It's very simple. Those who gain from the imposition of full external convergence are our opponents, those who lose from the implementation of external convergence are our allies. This has been recorded in texts and we are in this process. It has not changed, Mr Apostleou, something in the wording of the European Commission's proposals. I would also like to add as something younger than what has been done. In these three Councils of Ministers to which I have participated, there has been no difference in the position of the committee - from where you left it, to say so - and I would tell you that this is actually a debate that is evolving. The Finnish Presidency has not taken steps in this respect and has not been the subject of discussions with the Councils of Ministers to which I have participated so far. We will be given the opportunity to add more information on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Apostle, you have three minutes and please keep them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u27	Minister, it is certain that nothing has been closed yet. However, there are proposals from the European Commission and to deal with the CAP budget and to tackle convergence. But it's not closed. The question is that the issue of the CAP budget is a matter which the Council has already dealt with and which will go back to it, but the issue of external convergence is our only concern, as regards the consequences for our country, which will be painful. There are already three scenarios. Three scenarios have been made available by the European Commission. In relation to these three scenarios, we should definitely insist on one of them, which says that we do not agree on full external convergence. It seems that no convergence continues, that there is no specific reference. There's such a scenario. There is the other scenario proposed by the other countries, and there is a European Commission scenario that has taken serious account of the positions we have put forward by eliminating the term 'full'. I say it that way because I think it's a great victory. But you will now decide and we are having this debate, because at this time in Finland, like all the countries holding the presidency in recent years, have been willing to close this issue to present it for success. Although discussions are taking place - you know better - especially from the Finnish Presidency at this time to close this issue, it does not seem to close, as we do not want to close during the next presidency that is Croatia. Her views on our issues are not favourable. But because the German Presidency is following in the second half of 2020, then there are also the conditions, because Germany has also been favourable to all of the efforts we have made to tackle full convergence. We think it can be done then. I would like to present a proposal to you. At this point in time, our big question is that we have - as you have said - a few areas and because these aids are being given on the basis of areas, we have a problem. Go ahead, Minister, to prepare the management plans for grazing. We have made a great effort on grazing land, we have reached a point where we could join the Omnibus process eight to ten million acres. You can understand that if these areas go into the aids eligible for livestock, then this difference with the other countries and at the same time, I would like to believe that we will actually help farmers. It's a solution, it'll help you in that direction. Try to secure the resources, because you know it and all, especially the Greek farmers, that without these resources there will be no future for Greek agriculture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much Mr Apostle. The Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Mavroudis Vorides, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u29	To talk now about the legal texts, in fact the proposal for a regulation of the European Commission contains the following: 'The external convergence of direct payments will continue, all Member States with direct payments per hectare below the average of the European Union - it remains to be determined here the percentage - will cover the percentage - the negotiating items are those - the gap between the current average level of direct payments and the percentage of the European Union average in steps starting from 2022. Our position, again expressed in a legal text, is: 'There will be no further external convergence of direct payments.' So there's a stop to external convergence. That is what we are defending and that is what we are trying to promote in an alliance and in cooperation with other countries that have the same understanding of us. All current levels of direct payments per hectare will be adjusted according to the overall rate - upwards. And the proposal - let me say so - from the other countries is worded as follows: 'The external convergence of direct payments will immediately be completed in 2020 and remains in the year'. These are the three proposals that stand up for the European Union and the Council in order to see what will prevail. It is well known that texts and alliances have been developed. We are well known that we are trying to broaden the alliances. Perhaps the only thing I would like to add here is that if anyone puts the so-called blocking rights, that is, the correlations that can block and bind a decision, critical and decisive, as the correlations seem to be, it will be Germany's position. Germany's position is decisive in how this whole case is to develop. So - to say otherwise - we are working on this matter, we are working on it, it is a priority of the government, of course, of the Minister for Rural Development, but I also assure you of the Prime Minister himself. Now, what I would like to say to you, although you did not express this view today, is that this is not a fertile area of conflict. First of all, because we have a common position. So since we have a common position, we do not have to disagree on our common position. Secondly, because at the level of negotiating tactics, we have, in many cases, a common position. Why? Because at the end of the day, the negotiating possibilities are being formulated, who wins and who loses from this process, we do not discover the powder here. So, because I saw a communication that SYRIZA has given me for allegedly unspeakable on this matter, because it says I did not raise this issue at the last Council of Ministers. I do not know if you are doing so, Mr Apostleu, when you were going to the Council of Ministers to raise matters which are out of the agenda, that is, where you are not at all going to put them on your own. In fact, let me comment on that, I was told by SYRIZA, by the candidate, who I do not know if they will in the end apply when the committee is going to take over because the committee has its own potential. Another thing is to be a Polish who says what Poland wants you to be and be the Polish Commissioner when you get into the committee and you have to express the whole thing. And you are now asking me to start a confrontation on a point of view with the Commissioner, the Polish Commissioner, present at the current Commissioner, Mr Hogan, on a matter which is not on the agenda and which is not on the agenda and which you are telling me is in dissatisfaction with Vorides on the matter of external convergence. I therefore hope that we make fertile proposals. I have heard your position, I have always heard your views with interest, the proposals are welcome, no one says that they know everything, but the controversy is being made on the field of real and objective disagreement and not built because we now have to disagree - and I say this again - on a matter in which we do not objectively disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, one second to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u31	One second, Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u32	The concern we have as a space really needs to be raised by you, too, at every opportunity. That was the point of SYRIZA's press release. There should be no Council without, in fact, putting the matter on the table, particularly of external convergence. That was the point. Don't take it that's how we're in a confrontation. In any case, our differences are enormous and because we have made a great effort on this issue, we want you to recognise them and that is what you have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much. Series is the third with No. 131/22-10-2019 timely question for the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelles, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Serious problems from the decision to transfer the Centre for the Rehabilitation of Municipalities of Glyfada" Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I have to say that from the answers we usually get to written questions that have become oral, yours was extremely thorough. However, further clarification is needed, unless you have not been notified of what is happening right now. Because downstream, in the center of Glyfada, the prosecutor has gone since yesterday, and today, people and workers are gathered because they can take the police cars and the police to get the chronic patients out of the building. Even if one cannot imagine, when we talk about suffering and handicapped people in time, one can rush to get them out of the building, even with the interests of the legitimate owner of the property, who has taken out what he has. First of all, the problem in Glyfada is not cut off from the rest of the problem. It has emerged for years and has intensified over the past two years with multiple mistakes and the management of the centre and has not been tackled in parallel. The building belongs to a private person. I have tried to ask you and I want you to answer very specific things today. This center was by definition inappropriate to exist, a private building four floors that now wants to become a hotel, I don't know what they want to do, it's for everything else you want, for offices, for anything. However, it was not to accommodate people over time with kinetics, with a lot of problems that are visible to you plus relatives whenever they exist, because many of these people have literally nothing else to stand apart from these centres. I'm coming to second. You have responded basically to the chronic problem of a long-standing society in dealing with people who have problems at this level. You're telling me, he closed down for the patient's sake the center of autistics, the other restoration center in Haidari and everywhere. Does anyone know where to tell us where these people went to, what structures they went to, where they went? And what I want most of all to hear and close the first round of my intervention, is the following. You say these people will leave and go into structures temporarily until you find something better. I don't doubt the intention. Aren't you telling me, in those structures that are going to go, the needs of the existing ones have been met? They come out, you say it yourself in answer and you accept it, hundreds of applications. Already the structures you send them are tigered. The workers there do not get through either proportionally or substantially. It is therefore not only about maintaining jobs, it is also about whether this temporaryity is burdening an already ill situation, contributing to a society that is unable to deal with someone. You're in the youth, I'm older than you. Nothing is ruled out tomorrow morning - I am sorry to say that for both of us and for all those who are in here - we may be in the position of these people and not have where the head bed is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mrs. Canelley. The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Domna Michailidou, will answer. Mrs. Michailidou, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Canelle, thank you very much for the question. It is very important that everyone listens to this situation. I think you did better than I did. This building, which we are discussing, and today very rightly, as from the beginning of the week, has started institutionally and quite rightly, relocation procedures for our guests into this unit are absolutely inappropriate. You're absolutely right. I know you may know that better than I do, as your physical presence there knows both the people and the workers and the structure itself. So we agree on that. It's completely inappropriate. I agreed to manage this situation in July, where I was appointed to this Ministry, and I did what I had to do, so that these people would get out of the situation that we both agree is inappropriate and go to the most appropriate place. I'll give you the information, as my department gave it to you, but in more detail. What is the most appropriate solution? There are two solutions over there by time hierarchy. The temporary hierarchy, which is the relocation of most of the forty-seven guests to this structure, at the PICPA Voulas, and then two smaller groups of our people in Melissa and Aigaleo. I would like to stress the suitability of the structures. Both the PIKPA Voulas, which is in a very large property, in small properties separately from the other children hosted in the PIKPA Voulas, and even more in Melissa and Aegaleo, the structures are better than those that are now in the property that we both rightly say it is inappropriate. Let me give you an example: people over there even have their own toilet, which even in their dreams are not imagining it now and, unfortunately, this is a big problem with state management. We are going to the permanent solution, because we are not talking here about the abolition of the institution, but about a better solution, one and two permanent ones, as I have explained to you, about what we are doing and about the permanent relocation of these people. There is a large legacy in the 2 million-dollar order and a very specific committee has already been set up to see what the solution will be and where there will be a permanent relocation of these guests in better conditions for themselves, for the workers themselves, but also to serve the public interest, which, today, and with this situation in which the prosecutor has been rightly called upon to tackle a problem of preventing the relocation from an inappropriate building in three more appropriate structures, very specific trade unions are playing with their own interests in the backs of the guests - which you said quite rightly have very limited mobility - but also in the public interest - because I hope that everyone knows that there is a clause of nearly 2 million euros if this relocation is not done. So we come and ensure the best conditions, first of all for the guests, then for the workers, who will all go to the PICPA Voulas and, of course, for the public interest, for whom no taxpayer should pay 2 million in his pocket for a solution that should have been given and be halved by the previous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mrs. Undersecretary. Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u38	It's thirty years inappropriate. So this does not limit it to two years or to the previous government, to be honest. It's thirty years inappropriate. It did not happen yesterday, it was not inappropriate thirty years ago, so it is not a matter of the present or the last five years or six years. One of the prisoners. Secondly, you say in their entirety that the workers at the Voula Pikpa will go to the Voulas until you find the solution you want. First, timeline. You know, the way in Greece, especially in such cases sensitive, are, nor are they permanently, temporary. Capacity and prediction were for this centre of sixty and only forty-seven are hosted. Have you wondered why the number of sixty with so many pending applications has not been filled? First of all, to be honest, there was no staff required. You say that you will get the main volume in the PICA and you will go to other two structures, to see now and now the guidelines, where you go who, where they have some criteria. These criteria on which conditions have you made, who have you spoken to? Who should go now and under what conditions? The permanentity of staff is necessary, however, most are not permanent and you know it. Therefore, when I say that they are not permanent, I mean that they do not develop any experience, work relationships or anything else. If we look at it in terms of workers, it is a 'x' problem and if we look at it in terms of dealing with these people, it is another problem. He's gone personal. In your answer you have told me that there is a provision for three hundred and forty-one places. You're saying it's a drop in the ocean, and let's add another fifty two. Therefore, both millions, which are about the same from coincidence to the clause, are the object of the clause. You know what I mean, I don't want to plunder right now, if the Greek taxpayer will pay. The Greek taxpayer is also the sufferer and he has obviously paid all his life and his badges and his thousand and two, and may have been in this situation. Therefore, I do not want to say now what it costs the Greek taxpayer. Costs his head's hair the possibility and from there he starts prayers to uncle not to speak to him, because whatever he's paid is not going to be found in a structure, if he has a family. He's been moving to the family for a lifetime. What family? Family that he can? Can all families have chronic suffering and be able to leave him, I know, alone? You're talking against the foundations. All right, against the foundations, but that's where he's gonna be missing personal. The first thing that is missing is funds, the second is staff, and the third is scientific and substantial studies that we have and have submitted to them a number of times. Regarding your answer, I would ask you this: You have a threatening time, "whoever blocks"...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u39	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u40	No, you have a threatening time and I would ask you - because I have seen you well-meaning - to 'whoever blocks'. Do not go to 'whoever blocks'. There are things that need to be blocked to resolve your hands to make better decisions. See it's on the second page and I know very well what I'm saying to you, and I know you didn't write it in your hand. But who's in the way? What's going to interfere? Do you think they have power? How many times have we been looking for relatives of these people and not there? They're flying in a corner. To recognize now, and you and I, the honesty of the workers who have kept a structure that must not exist, which is inappropriate, without the means, without the money, and who have not died, to tell you so in the hands of or failed. Thanks to this patronage, these people stood. The workers gave everything they could and they couldn't. Go cook in a place where you don't have the right means, take care of yourself and have clean people who don't have any cabins and make them out and be in multiple working relationships, and be temporary and make it and keep it on his feet. Therefore, it is not who will interfere, it is why it will, possibly, prevent a violent movement, a secondment which will be burdensome to the patient or the worker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mrs. Canelley. State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Domna Michailidou, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kanelle, I hope this time I'll sound less threatening than the previous one. I am sure that workers with the same warmth, with the same courage, with the same strength, with the same soul - which, in fact, every time I visit these institutions, I see them, I experience them and I give them my credit - which help, work and host the guests of these structures for so many years in one, as we agree - I say, inappropriate structure, with the same warmth - will do so in another more appropriate structure. So over there I do not think we disagree, namely if they have achieved these years in a more inappropriate structure, which we have inherited, and we need to ensure that people leave the inappropriate structure for a short period of time and then the committee - in reply to your question - which has already been set for what the timetable for relocation will be, what will be the most clearest comprehensive way of finding where the new body is going and how we will ensure the best conditions, primarily for the guests and then for the workers in this institution, but as regards inappropriateness, you may give us the credit for finding the best solution at the moment. These people cannot be in danger of staying on the road or staying in an institution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u43	But you wouldn't touch them if it wasn't for the private.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u44	But why would they stay there? It is an institution that we come here and say it is now inappropriate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u45	You wouldn't touch it! He's the private person who wants to make it a hotel.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u46	Do you agree, and we agree...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u47	Don't present...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u48	These people are in danger of staying on the road. As is true, two or three people are being removed from this relocation. So it is our duty to ensure that guests go to better structures. And if you have any scientific staff, which can substantiately prove to us that the structures in which the Management Board of the Attica Social Welfare Centre decided to go are worse and the living conditions are worse than those that exist today, please show us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u49	But we didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u50	Because all the experts, the Scientific Committee and the Management Board of the Centre for Social Welfare at Attica have decided that the best solution for these people is these three institutions. And please, if you can provide us with some scientific documentation that the conditions in these institutions are worse than the conditions in which they are now staying, let us know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u51	And who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u52	But just because I think we agree on this...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u53	Don't twist my words!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u54	Mrs. Canelle, please, please, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, thank you. Just because I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u56	I told you that we have submitted studies on the overall problem. Don't twist my word that I told you I have a study that they'll go worse! For reasons of decency!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u57	So we now agree that the interim solution is better than the current solution...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u58	But you're not telling time!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u59	...and we also agree that the permanent solution is a solution that will provide...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u60	For how long?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u61	Look, the Scientific Committee has been appointed, there is the Management Board. I imagine that by the end of 2019 we will have an exact timetable. In this direction I am pushing, because I have been pressing since the first week, I will not tell you from the first day I took office at the Ministry, until the end of 2019 we have an exact timetable with choice of where this institution will go, so that the sixty anticipated places can bloom and our fellow people can host...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u62	Where did the others go from the centers that closed, can you answer me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u63	...in a much better way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u64	You don't know what to answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u65	Thank you both. We hope that everything will go well for these people. The second question, under number 113/17-10-2019, will now be discussed in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament's Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on "Problems in the orderly functioning of the Single Social Security Agency (ESMA) of farmers based in Lamia". Mr. Mulkiotis, you have two minutes at your disposal. I'll beg you to keep them, because time passes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u66	Minister, the question is about citizens' complaints about their inability to serve by Lamia-based farmers. ECKA Lamia serves five counties, also serves the island of Skyros. You realise that for some time now this service has been under office because of the workload, since the number of staff is insufficient to serve farmers and pensioners throughout the region. The result of this situation is the daily suffering of farmers and their financial burden. There is also a problem in handling their demands. After that, we ask you, Minister, what reasons is due to this ineffective operation of the regional section of central Greece of the ECA farmers and what actions you intend to take now to give a direct solution to the chronic problem facing the service, so that we can now have a proper functioning. We also ask you whether it is the Ministry's intention to strengthen the Office of the ECA farmers by making use of the possibility of reallocating the staff, following the publication of the ECA Agency to serve the farmers in the region decently. Of course, there are several references to previous Members' questions concerning the adoption of decisions to transfer competences to local stores and that the programming of recruitment in 2020 may solve the problem. We know, however, that the officials of the EPC have also raised a matter and say that they are six people, two of whom are in court decisions and one is the chief. There are outstanding applications and insurance and retirement insurance from the year 2016. It's too far back. Today we have October 2019. We propose that this should be served immediately, at least twice as staffed, that is to say, instead of six people being twelve, so that all the burden is left and that there is a proper process. And finally, there is no logistical infrastructure, but this secretariat is also nonexistent. The same employees are involved in processing, archiving, files, anything. There is no real logistical infrastructure anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Mulkiotis. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis, will answer. Minister, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, I would like to begin by thanking you for this question. I am given the opportunity to address the issue in general the problems faced by the ECA. Unfortunately, I have to agree with you. You are very well doing and interested as a Member for your region, Central Greece, Lamia in particular, and the problems faced by pensioners and insured persons. I wish the problem you describe was only there. Unfortunately, the problem you describe for your region is widened throughout the country. And this is because once the EFCA, and the EFSI, the supplementary pension agency, have been created, it all falls short. They were made in haste, more in communication terms and not systematicly and scheduled as they should be. The electronic systems are unconnected, the staff are really doing superhuman efforts, but it is not enough, because the electronic systems are what they are. Circulars are pending, decrees are pending, decisions are pending, and just yesterday you heard from me, in a question of Members of the New Democracy who came to Parliament, that the unfinished outstandings of the Ministry of Labour left by the previous SYRIZA government exceed one million, namely one million and fifty thousand unfinished seven hundred cases, major pensions, subsidiary and one-off, a tragic situation. So we are, at the moment, in the few months that we have undertaken, in a titanic effort to reconstruct the ECA, to reconstruct the insurance system, to reconstruct the subsidiary system of the country. And since unconstitutionalism also emerges in very important areas of the insurance system, we are preparing within the new insurance law to make a significant restructuring of the whole system, so that we can respond to the challenges and the problems you rightly identify with your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, too. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u70	Minister, you will allow me to make a complaint. One month before the question of the New Democracy colleagues, we have tabled a written question with this question and have not been answered until today. It's not two yards and two weights. Is this an overlookation of the Services? I don't know. However, I make a direct complaint and I would also like a reply to it. I am sure that the shortages of staff throughout the country are well known, cannot be questioned. In 2020, in February, the employment programme of the five thousand five hundred unemployed aged 22-29 has also expired. Then we will have a more serious problem, a more general problem, and so there will be a dead end in relation to dealing with issues, particularly the ECA and the ECA of the region, the Central Greece ECA. There is one question, therefore, with this issue of recruitment planning and we, Minister, ask: why has the mobility system not been activated, which could well be implemented and a response and a solution to these people who are roaming? They go up every day, you understand, from Skyros to Lamia or from the Dervenochoria mountains of Boeotia to Lamia or from the Fokida mountains to Lamia. It's a lot of miles. What are they doing? They take a piece of paper, take a number of priorities and wait for the official to answer, who is involved in answering the phones and answering the complaints and doing the current bureaucratic procedure, and keep the loose ends as they are. The institution of mobility, why, Minister, should it not be applied so as to meet the needs of services and the lack of staff, to give a solution to the first-line priorities for farmers and, more generally, workers? That is what I wanted to say, Minister, nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, I have to say this again and I will say publicly that for the question you are describing and you are right: two parties have asked the Ministry of Labour and to me personally about the unfinished work of the Ministry of Labour. He did the Change Movement and New Democracy. In other words, I can confirm what you are saying. I say, however, that the answers are not given by the Minister. You know the services always give them. If there's a heterostation, I'll look into it. But I confirm in public that the Change Movement and the New Democracy are the two parties that asked the crucial question about the loose ends that SYRIZA left behind. It is worth saying, however, that I had asked SYRIZA to do what is self-evident, to ask a question, to learn the unfinished things he left behind. Unfortunately, he did not, despite my constant appeals and although I was committed to answering as Minister and I will not follow the example of my predecessor as Minister, who never responded to any party on the loose ends, nor to the fifty-five Members of the New Democracy who in February 2019 asked a question about the loose ends of the Ministry of Labour and demonstratedly and vindicatedly and in violation of the parliamentary procedure. In any case, these are evaluated by society, by the world, as a different government. You should know that, as we do so far, in the three months that we are government, we answer all the questions. Secondly, for the feelings you have mentioned, I repeat that, unfortunately, I am also obliged to confirm the residual function and weaknesses of the system. I described what we want for the future, but I am now ready to tell you that in these three months we have not stayed with crossed hands. From the first day we took over the steering wheel in the Ministry of Labour against these challenges and the problems have gone on in a series of actions. I want to mention them, because they have their value, so people can hear them. First power. We immediately transferred eighty-six ECA employees who were in second-hand jobs with special weight in the award of pensions, increasing by 17.2% the human resources that it provides for pensions. Second energy. We've suspended mobility. The suspension of mobility is for the FBI in this law that is currently under discussion in Parliament. Third energy. We issued the sixty - six thousand two hundred twenty - three widow's pensions. We put it as the top priority. It was a heavy 'inheritation', a serious outstanding in this weakest category. We put it first and issued the widow's pensions, which were for our government first priority. Fourth energy. In the bill we are now discussing, we have specific provisions that have changed the organisational procedure, so they are won in the process of signing the signatures two months - two months! - the award of pensions. They'll be coming out faster by two months. And that was a mere organizational arrangement concerning signatures. Fifth energy. We didn't reduce the staff of the FBI. And I say this because the previous SYRIZA government had committed itself to reducing OLAF officials by two thousand. We froze that, suspended it, and it won't happen. In addition, we are doing something else, which is in this debate in Parliament. We froze every process of moving the employees of the FBI in a strict manner. No official will leave the ECA or the EIF again in the face of these great loose ends and the obligation we have on Greek citizens. He's in this law we're talking about now in the House. With regard to the future - because all these measures are important measures, they show reflexes, but we also need to see the future - they are not dealt with either with the human potential of the ECA or with good initiatives and efforts and smart operating and organisational changes. There will always be problems. The future is dealt with only with Digital Alma and Digital Atlas pension. That is why we have said many times, Mr President, and I have announced it as Minister since the first time that, at the same time as all we are doing, there is another scientific group working on this digital jump, so that on 1 June 2020 34,47% of new pensions can be issued digitally and in June 2021, 90% of new pensions can be issued digitally. So you understand that, over time, all this problem we have inherited, and we and the previous government, since it is a problem of decades, will be solved forever. This is a very important reform, which responds substantially to the future of this great problem in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too. We move to the last question for today, in order to move to legislative work, in the second with number 133/22-10-2019, in the second question of the President of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Re-establishment of the Social Solidarity Fund (ESC), introduce a lower ceiling on the pensions and support measures for micro-enterprises'. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, it is well known that pensioners as a whole have suffered large reductions throughout the crisis and in trying to tackle deficits. Of course, the first two programmes were of great importance in preserving the incomes of the weakest pensioners, the smallest pensioners. Thus, there was no change in the support of small pensioners through the ESS, which was maintained both in the first and second programmes, but, of course, also in the lower threshold, which was established and amounted to EUR 486 for all the IKA pensions. We came to the infamous negotiation after the end of the second programme. I am referring to the famous ‘Hardouvelis mail’, which clearly includes the position of the then government in maintaining the CSCE, dealing with any issues that had arisen, which should be streamlined. The people in 2015 chose a new government, the SYRIZA government, which but threw up, but it did. The government of SYRIZA proved to be the most irreversible social one, after it disappeared the ESS and, of course, abolished the lower ceiling on pensions, with the famous signature of Mr Haikalis, who must be the only ministerial act he has signed, by order of course Mr Tsipras. Today, then, the micro-retired people, and after the Katorugalou law, remain the most unfair, due to the difficult situation in general for survival, at a cost of life that requires some income. So the question arises: Does the government, regardless of the court rulings which have to do with the justice of pensioners for specific things, as the courts decide, and which will be launched with the insurance pensioner, for the small pensioners, thinks, examines, does it intend to restore the CSCE? Does he also intend to bring the lower threshold back to pensions? We have also proposed that the ESS should come back in a specific way and that there should be a threshold of EUR 500 in pensions. We ask these questions to the Minister, and, of course, in dentistry, we will talk about the other issue that has to do with a new system of contributions that it needs, with the abolition of the Katrugalos Act and the linking of insurance contributions and incomes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, too. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to repeat something that we said again in a timely question from Mr Kegeroglou, that in fact with L.3863/2010, which was agreed in 2010 with the Troika - institutions, as they are now called - which I inherited as Minister of Labour between 2012 and 2014, did not provide for the abolition of the CSCE. The ESS was indeed an aid to the low pensioners, which could, through and through the study we had done in 2014, and it confirmed that the measurable insurance, which we had done to him, and the first and only proportional study for that time, which had been carried out in the Greek state for the insurance, the ESS could be within the insurance system and the insurance system as a whole met viability conditions by 2060. Unfortunately, everything was overturned after SYRIZA was elected in 2015. The change in the financial model, for reasons that SYRIZA knows, overturned our own agreements and brought their own agreements, through which the ESS was abolished, and indeed I have to agree with the honourable Member that the ESS was abolished because of SYRIZA and the different approach to insurance. Today we are in a different situation. There is now the calculation of the pension, which is made at the sum of the national pension and the payroll, there is the amount involved in the national pension, which is EUR 384 at twenty years, and that is where the payroll is built. We are in a process in which we are working on the insurance policy as a whole, because as you know, critical areas of insurance were considered unconstitutional and all this is reviewed by the officials of the Ministry of Labour, its managers and staff, so that very soon in the new insurance system we have a different picture of what we will deliver and bring to Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would also like to mention the Minister's irregularity - because I do not want to describe it otherwise - to answer further questions and not answer a question and a request for documents made a month ago and which was in the Minister's knowledge, because in a previous question here in this House, he had mentioned and said that he has just been able to reply to us. So it's not just the agency's responsibility. I say that it is no responsibility at all, because I know very well that the agency is working very well and therefore has been encouraged to respond to the Members of the New Democracy and not to the Members of the Change Movement. That's why I'm pretty sure if there's anything else the Minister can tell us, he'll tell us. But I'm overlooking it. A request has been made, Minister, for a question concerning these issues. Because you respond to the House from the Ministry that you are not ready, that you want to bring the insurance, you want to do, you want to show, you know, parliamentary control is independent of the legislative work. You know that very well, I'm not teaching you, you know that very well. So, look at the request, I'm telling you now officially not to say that you didn't know again. I tell you officially, there's been this for about a month and refuse to come and talk. We have a lot to say about, of course, which we had fought for together and for what you are now'switching'. The EESC, the most important institutional instrument for supporting micro-retired people, which was preserved in both the first two programmes as well as in the negotiations for the extension and the credit line, was abolished by a next government. You, as you do with the surpluses, simply say: 'E, SYRIZA abolished it, what should we do?', 'Syriza put the surpluses and overtaxation, what should we do?' Or are you coming back to what you agreed in 2014, that the CSCE should be maintained, or are you following SYRIZA's swayed? Pick and take. Any alibi, that others have done or are studying matters, etc., cannot come as an argument today and you can tell us that we cannot answer whether or not we will return it. I'm making it up again. It's the official proposal of the Change Movement. It is time for the CSR to return to support micro-retired people. It is time to put a lower ceiling on all pensions to EUR 500, as a lower threshold, as a guaranteed income for the micro-retired person and from there and above, support through the CSR, of course, and taking into account the other incomes of the CSR into account. The ECHR is not for all pensioners, it is for those who meet the economic criteria, for the weakest, because it comes from the state budget and not from an insurance system. So it has criteria of justice, criteria that give it this character as a tool of social solidarity. Of course, if the Minister is ready to tell us whether he accepts our proposal to abolish the system of contributions, as did the Karugalou Act, and to reintroduce a class system. We have proposed eight classes - but that is, of course, to be discussed - which will be the choice of the insured person, but at the same time it can also be a development depending on his financial capacity within specific frameworks. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, too. Mr. Brutsi, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to address my fellow Members and my colleague who has asked the question, and I would like to be careful and precise about what we are saying, because we have also been through with Mr Kegeroglu, together, we have experienced the difficult fiscal period of the country and the Greek Parliament has experienced what financial derailment is going to say, what will be naive, what the irresponsible overall and the political system, which unfortunately has been used in the past - I say it, and I say it, and I will say it - as a policy-making arm. And the insurance led - and was one of the main causes - to the country's financial derailment. That is why it is very important, when and whenever we talk about our will, about our desire, about being merciful, about giving sizes to the pensioners, about workers, about high wages, about pensions, about pensions, about the financial study that we are proposing shows sustainability and adequacy, and our economy can afford to cope with financial problems. Because very easily we can go back to financial derailment if we do not show the necessary seriousness and responsibility. This means that when we propose, as in this particular case, figures which do not correspond to reality or to the ability of the economy, this shows a return to the past, not to say irresponsibility, when they are not accompanied by elements showing that what I propose is accounting, financially and can stand. Secondly, on the issue that has been mentioned about contributions, I inform the House that this issue is one of the areas of insurance that has been considered unconstitutional and that will change. In fact, it was something that, as a opposition, but also myself as a Member of Parliament during the previous period, and the New Democracy as a whole, has been one of the problems for two reasons. The first reason was to deal with the issue of the exterior contributions to free professionals and self-employed persons, who effectively punished the creativity and productivity of each Greek who came out on the market and wanted to create in the private sector, and the second issue was that his connection to taxation - that is, they turned insurance into taxation - led with mathematical certainty into tax evasion and tax evasion. Since I took over the Ministry of Labour, this critical position, I have noticed the figures, and unfortunately I am in the regrettable position to confirm that this particular system of the provision that connects the insurance system to the tax, apart from being judged to be unconstitutional, has had fatal effects on revenues and insurance and taxation, i.e. the Funds. Why? Because it has led to an unprecedented attempt by too many, free professionals and self-employed people to try to find themselves in the lowest class, and so they will do everything possible through tax evasion and tax evasion to avoid paying. It's a reality. How is it confirmed? Confirmed by the following oxymolar shape. At a time when the economy is in this development process, even the patient until now, it is a temptation to raise everyone's incomes and fall the incomes of free professionals and self-employed people, which shows that there is a tendency for everyone to be at the bottom of tax evasion. I therefore confirm that this should be changed and changed in a different direction. This part must be disconnected, that is, the contributions from the tax procedure and the tax income of each free and self-employed person and we are currently working on proposals. Mr. Kegeroglu, I'm glad to welcome your proposal and I'll wait for it at the Ministry. You're talking about class. I want to see whether these classes are autonomous or whether they are connected either to income or to the years. I'm waiting for your proposal. I'm officially waiting for her at the Ministry. You should know that the Ministry's service actors that have undertaken and the building of this new insurance company will also personally welcome it and we are ready to discuss with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u81	I, too, thank Mr Kegerolgus and Minister Brutsi. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u82	We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "I invest in Greece and other provisions". Before I give Mr Avramakis the floor, I would like us to make an agreement and to consult on the organisation of the debate because we need to start the vote at about ten o'clock at night. But there are about seventy-five speakers, three parliamentarians and ten ministers. It's impossible. And they have said and they want to speak and two party leaders. So since the vote is due to start at 10 p.m. and not all the signatories will be able to speak, I propose that the seven-minute period should be five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u83	Do not do this to us, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u84	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u85	You don't agree. Your colleagues will not be able to make it. I remind you that the best verb after the verb 'I love' is the verb 'I help'. Don't do what you don't want to do. All Members must speak, and that is why I do. Please. You're going to take it to the seventh, but we can keep track of times. Mr. Tsakalotus knows and laughs. I would ask you, therefore, to speak as much as possible. Do you agree? So, with a smile, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u86	I propose a compromise, Mr President, the first two minutes and the other five.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u87	Oh, because they're first and they're awake. They'll be here. Don't worry. As far as I can see, the first three of you are very good orators, you can say it in five minutes. If you want to help your colleagues. Please very much. Mr. Avramakis has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the main problems of the country that has contributed to bankruptcy is the absence of a coherent and effective development model. In order to have this plan, we must firstly answer the question of what kind of development we want as the Greek people. A growth with the abolition of labour rights and wage reductions is an unjust and class-based discriminatory growth in favour of the few and strong. We want and call for fair and sustainable development that protects employment, strengthens employment, respects the work and sweat of workers, gives access to the labour market of all those young people on the basis of decent living conditions. It will give the right to collective bargaining and the possibility of concluding sectoral and service contracts between workers and employers and recognise the constitutionally guaranteed right to strike as in any democratic and favoured country. SYRIZA as a government and despite the restrictive terms of the memorandums in the three out of four years he was responsible for trying to respond to this, involving all the regions of the country, holding separate conferences in the thirteen regions and a series of other corresponding conferences in many counties of the country. The universal involvement of the players, local communities and productive forces in the country has demonstrated the need for specific designs, has highlighted specificities and shaped an image for all needs. The proposals put forward, the problems presented, formed a roadmap for the objective development with substantial specialisations per region, by systematically recording the advantages and special characteristics of each territorial unit. It demonstrated the necessary diversification needed to achieve balanced growth throughout Greece, the human potential and the dynamics of each corner of the country. In order to start development, substantial interventions are needed throughout the country. Public investment in infrastructure, tax incentives access to lending, synergies, suitable staff and potential, appropriate location and exploitation of the natural environment, and not alter it. Most importantly, however, we need targeting and joint effort from all stakeholders, public and private. The SYRIZA Government after the wider social dialogue concluded that development should concern new technology, the primary sector, tourism, renewable energy sources and the development of the specific characteristics of the country and each region. At the same time, it launched a development model that ensured that there would be equal participation of all in the effort and in the distribution of results. The current government bears a bill on the investments that have been much advertised by the government itself, and we finally have a multi-brand plan that concerns almost all the ministries, and it certainly does not only relate to investment. The bill is characterised, firstly, by a lack of overall planning and basic development orientation for the country. Secondly, the establishment of neoliberal practices and ideas, especially on the labour market. Thirdly, the service of budsmen and men, whether they are elected or entrepreneurs. We have a string of heterogeneous amendments on many issues that are not clearly related to investment. It is of particular interest to know the bearers of these provisions. How all this volume of amendments - corrections has been gathered, even for your recent legislation on the final state. The government does not seem ready to rule wisely and legislate correctly. Instead, it is presented ready to serve its chosen and a few friends. Actually, I have a sign of a bad legacy. The Government shall as a whole delete the social dialogue conducted throughout the territory by the Government of SYRIZA. It is clear that it did not enter the process to read the conclusions of the development conferences of each region, where it was involved in large numbers of its own officials from local government and productive bodies. It today brings a bill presenting it as a development plan. However, by reading what is envisaged in this development bill, in the priorities that are set and in the messages transmitted, one can see that the main brake on growth is labour legislation. In other words, we have a job that basically turns our bill with great idealism at the time of the second memorandum. The proposed provisions create a mechanism for the reduction of wages and rights. You are, for example, reversing the contract concerning hotel officials, a collective agreement extended by the SYRIZA Government, has gained universal power and concerns a hundred and thirteen thousand workers, looking forward to the lowest wage, close to EUR 800. By applying the New Democracy provisions to enterprises throughout the territory, they will be able to invoke economic difficulties, reduce the wages of workers and fall from EUR 800 to EUR 650. The New Republic is invoked by the European good practice for the proposed provisions on exemption clauses from the compulsory universal application of sectoral collective labour agreements. Half of the European Union countries have the system that SYRIZA has brought back with the sectoral collective labour agreements to have universal and compulsory application, while the other half are entitled to an exception only if the trade unions have agreed to it. To be able to exempt businesses by the same Minister does not apply to any European country. The draft law gives the Minister a white cheque to decide according to the manner in which and, where appropriate, which undertakings are exempted from the application of collective agreements, with all specializations being reserved to the Minister only without any control. The proposed provision and the right to unilateral referral to arbitration are so important that the procedure, which is effectively abolished, is so limited. In practice workers will claim sectoral contracts, employers will refuse and the debate will end there, without any other choice for workers. Another issue raised by this bill is the way in which the strike should be proclaimed. The government of 30% and less, if we take account of the abstention, also requires the approval of 50 plus 1 members of a trade union organisation to proclaim a strike. Apart from special service contracts, however, the government also promotes special local contracts. Regardless of the real situation of enterprises, wage reductions can be made and derogations from legal working conditions in whole regions can be imposed. Logically, in Serres Prefecture, which according to ELSTAT is the poorest county in per capita income, special local labour contracts can be implemented. Has Serres' productors consented to such a prospect? I personally inform you that, having spoken many times with businessmen, chambers and workers, no one ever asks for this, even though we live at the border and experience unfair practical competition from Bulgaria. Professionals, young and old, in Serres Prefecture have very specific demands, none of which is to elasticize the rules governing employment relations. They call for reductions in taxation, a reduction in energy costs, a reduction in insurance contributions. They ask that the so-called “Egnatia” be included in Serres Prefecture, that the potential of the prefecture, renewable energy sources and the geothermal field be exploited to local society, that abandoned public buildings be provided, that there be special provisions for the remote, border county, that there be aid for standardising and packaging agricultural products, that conditions be created for the return of the younger Serenas to their place, where they will find good jobs, with good wages and good quality of life. But what you bring as growth will drive out even more young people, not only out of the prefecture, but out of the country. [[This is where the end of the speaking time bell hits the honourable Member.]] You think that with gifts and facilities you will be able to create a false picture of reality again and pass on all that you bring to the public. It is not enough, however, to answer the real owners of the media to hide the consequences that will be caused in the life of the Greek people. In fact, how are transparency, public interest and development served by the lifting of the obligation on the shareholders of the media to submit ‘wherever you are concerned’? Journalists working for them will submit 'outside' and employers will not. You are even changing the wording of the compulsory removal of the bank, stock exchange and tax professional secrecy to control 'wherever you were.' Why do you make this provision voluntary?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u89	Finish, Mr. Avramakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u90	In closing, the Greek people require growth and prosperity for all. You once again legislate on growth for the few and the strong, serving the class interests you represent and at some point promise to go to the Greek people in the future. We will not follow you in this policy. It is clear that we are voting against your bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, too. For those of you who are here now, I must tell you that we have decided that the speaking time should be five minutes and not seven. Mr. Avramakis has escaped a lot. I do not want to repeat the reasons. But there are too many speakers. There are seventy-five Members who want to speak. There are also the Parliamentary Representatives, the Ministers and you will see that we will not have time. That is why I ask for your understanding so that we can get time. The floor will now be taken by Mr Spilios Lebanon, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, for 15 minutes and then by Mr Nikolaos Voutsis for eight minutes. Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about development, development which is a key to us, not only for the economy but also for social justice. Without strong growth, there can be no social cohesion, no real freedom, nor really hope to bridge the differences between non-preferential and privileged. Equal opportunities for progress cannot be confused with the downward equation. And that is the basic ideological difference between us and the Left, the whole of the Left. I am pleased to hear the rapporteur, Mr Pappas, speaking of a difference of philosophy between New Democracy and SYRIZA. In that at least, Mr Pappa, we can agree that we are ideologically disagreeing. But in this ideological controversy, which is pure and political, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman came and placed with a admittedly strange mental leap. He blamed us with an imaginary line of hybrid neoliberal neoliberalism. Amazing! I think that it should be a bit of work, that your own parliamentary group should understand, that the society to which you are addressing and then come and explain it to us. But let us see who said that, regardless of the logic, which we expect to understand. So top Minister of SYRIZA, who, during your administration, exercised a class economic policy, effectively redistributing with customer poverty and misery criteria. On the contrary, we believe that the country must create new wealth - and we say it clearly - and of course share it fairly. For the Government of New Democracy development is the most important bet we need to win, not for us, not for New Democracy, but for Greece. It is our political priority, of which we will ultimately be judged as a government. Our aim is to relaunch the economy and improve the everyday life of the citizens. We have already been working in this direction since we took over. We're judging by the first hundred days of life. We were ready, decisive, serious, setting specific objectives and specific priorities. We're talking about acts, not announcements. So we reduced HNPH, we improved the setting of the hundred and twenty instalments, so that more than one million of our fellow citizens can regulate debts of over 11 billion, we unlocked large investment projects, we reached historically low in seven-year and ten-year bonds, we borrowed with trenches of bills for the first time at a negative interest rate. Yesterday, the Prime Minister announced the suspension of VAT on building for all licenses from 1-1-2006. That means there will be no VAT. There will be no VAT on land, not even on land, which will give their land for the compensation and, together with the abolition of the value tax on operations, this will be a substantial renovation of the property market, a request from the entire industry, a request from owners of about 100 thousand newly built buildings and at the same time the whole of society, so that we can relaunch the economy. In this brief period of July 7th, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis has left a positive mark. The citizens seem to understand that much has been done in the country, contrary to what we have heard yesterday in this Chamber. We have listened with interest to the placement of SYRIZA officials that there was a development strategy during governance and if we understood well, this strategy was expelled from the thirteen - I do not know if all thirteen - regional conferences were held.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u93	They're posted on the Ministry's website.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u94	I don't remember if it was thirteen or fourteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Pope, please don't interrupt. Go on, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u96	We realised then that because the elections were shortening, the Prime Minister and his ministers were forced out of the tower of the Great Maximos, and the pretext was that, because it was towards the end of your four-year period. This does not mean, however, that this is an essential development strategy. On the contrary, what the whole of the Greek people perceived was that your main strategy was systematically blocking investment, large and small. We have also heard the rapporteur for Officerial Response in his speech, if I understood correctly, telling us that within the basis of the development strategy there were the major road nodes. I would like to remind you that all these projects, which were launched during your own governance, had all begun before. Everything. There was no project, which was done by itself during this period. Some had stopped because of the economic crisis, they had been launched before, you stopped them when you came and you relaunched them and finished them. In some of them you have cut their budgets so that they can get the works known and unexplainable, so that they can stop, and elsewhere you've confused the procedures. Great and translucent examples of your failure in this area are the road link between Patras and the Tower and, of course, the Ambrosia Street. A walk there will convince us of this development strategy that you had. You cut ribbons in many works, which were started before and finished over your days. There, with one exception, I think, there was not even the Minister's tactic to call on the previous ones who had worked on these projects to cut the ribbon together. I want to remind you - because it is good to take a look at our recent history - that when George Souflias as Minister of the IPTOV tried to inaugurate the great, the hub of the Ryu-Antirio's link, perhaps the most important and emblematic work, the first thing he did with his political opponents until then was to cut off this ribbon together. This is the difference of the ethos and the style of your own governance with our own party and our own governance. In addition, you told us that 'the SYRIZA - ANEL Government had a dominant position in the Balkans and the international economic and global territory', while invoking us that we do not really understand foreign policy and we do not have a clear position. Honestly, it is very ironic that SYRIZA's representatives tell us in the New Democracy. Historically all the big, long-term foreign policy strategies, with three tops of Constantine Karamanlis's multi-dimensional foreign policy, the basic choice that we belong to the West and, of course, our integration into the European Community at that time, were choices to our side, for which we are proud. Honestly, I don't want to think about what would happen if at those historic times SYRIZA's party was at the wheel of the country. Today, after four and a half years of lack of a foreign policy strategy, full alignment of the country's credibility abroad and shocking historical errors such as the Prespecies' Agreement, for which you are finally taking Greece in the face of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, has acquired a serious, documented, multi-dimensional foreign policy. Luckily, we've changed a page. Without forgetting, we're moving forward. The Greek society seems to be gradually removed from the fears and limitations of the ten-year crisis. It is starting to face a greater confidence in the future and change in the socio-economic climate is clear. For the first time about 60% of our fellow citizens, that is, the majority, appreciates in all the research that the economic and social progress is in the right direction. All indicators of economic confidence and economic climate are constantly rising. I imagine that there cannot be any Greek who is not satisfied with the fact that we all seem to be optimistic for the first time after the sacrifices we have suffered in the last decade of the crisis and the memoranda. There have certainly been many sacrifices in recent years by all citizens. While, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, in the previous years when your prolongation was running, you have, unfortunately, received a large number of budgetary measures, due to your well-known ideas, you have not gone through radical reforms in order to eliminate the structural diseases and weaknesses relating to the structural operation of the Greek economy and the state, which have largely led us to the crisis. Of course, it is not just your own governance that is responsible for this. They all have those who have ruled the country in recent years, obviously within them and the New Democracy. But these responsibilities are taken over and we are here today. Just these pathogens and weaknesses we come to cover and deal with the bill under discussion. This is, as has been repeatedly articulated here, an integrated framework for attracting investment, achieving growth, creating new and well-paid jobs. Contrary to previous development laws lacking clear targeting and vision, which have resulted in lower expectations and have limited themselves to being a liquidity mechanism, this bill aims to promote growth with respect for environmental standards through the creation of an investment framework without bureaucratic obstacles and distortions in the labour market. I honestly do not understand the strong criticism that has been made in many parts of the Act by Civic Opposition, as this was largely based on the serious part of the work that has been done by the Ministry before, for example, in the National Development Programme, at GEM and of course at the Development Bank, which has been one of the positive thoughts of the SYRIZA Government, which we have embraced and will in due course be practically projecting. We have strongly criticised our choice to include provisions on the labour market in this draft legislation. The Minister was clear, I imagine he will answer today. Generally I will say that growth and work for us, unlike you, are inextricably linked. It may be in your model, which you have in mind, that growth is not the prerequisite for increasing wages, but for increasing wages, as you have said, to be the prerequisite for growth. Perhaps the former Minister of Finance has come to correct this mistake a little, invoking theories of profitable wages, the 'efficiency', but as the Minister of Finance you did not move in this direction, Mr President. Perhaps in relation to what you said the other day, your picture of the SYRIZA's development plan was, if I'm not mistaken, introductorys are from Mr Tsakalotou's speech - 'a clear management of knowledge, a debate with everyone on the quality of ideas'. It is true that this is right and we are all embracing it. But is this a conversation between a manager of our economy at such difficult times? The results are judged and we leave the theory that we want to discuss, but our political decisions must have a practical impact on citizens' lives. We in total - we have told you before - do not have any illusions. We really support the workers and their rights. In order for there to be workers - we said this yesterday - there must also be businesses. That's understandable to us, but it's not understandable on the Left. We respect legality and support companies precisely to create jobs. It seems that the years of SYRIZA rule did not understand what led us to the crisis at that time. You didn't realize that within the main causes was the increase in loan wages. The growth of Greece in the pre-crisis period, based on consumerism and on external lending, rather than on increasing production and improving competitiveness, has had the results that have led us to the crisis. If we want to get away from this, we must finally change this development model, not in the theoretical direction but in practical terms. So, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, we also take into account the Prime Minister's general strategy that we are at the threshold of the fourth technological and industrial revolution, the'motor' of which are new technologies and innovation. We understand the impact of these technologically aggressive technologies on the economy and society, so as to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the knowledge and information society. We are making use of the consequent and unavoidable changes in the labour market and the spread of these technologies. It is certain that old jobs will disappear, but at the same time there will also be a need for new skills, and all this must be seen as an opportunity and not as a threat, as the Minister for Education has often said. This development bill brings many small reforms that change the entrepreneurial environment. Their impact on GDP is estimated to be strong, with 5% additional units over a decade. So we are envisioning a sustainable development for all, and as Mr Mitsotakis said, we are putting the bar to becoming the world's best, because the development of the future must have clear and transparent sustainable features and exploit the comparative advantages of our country. The preliminary draft budget, which has been tabled, is also discussed. There, then, we are taking further steps towards strengthening entrepreneurship, reducing business tax, widening tax base, extending electronic transactions. We therefore believe that the relaunching of entrepreneurship and economic activity in general is the necessary condition to achieve not only growth for all, but also to reduce social inequalities and austerity. With these thoughts and the debate that has taken place in this Chamber, we would like to have a comprehensive vote in favour of this large bill. We call on all of you to review, vote on this bill and have a second sample of consensus in this place, so that our country can move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, too. I will become annoying, I will be a bad guy, but I insist on the time, ladies and gentlemen, because it will not come out otherwise. Respect those who are waiting to speak. Some people will talk for the first time. Respect the officials of this House, too. The meeting is going too late. I told you that there were seventy-five speakers left. And of the seventy-five, one has spoken. I'd like to make two announcements: Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational program "The Workshop of Democracy", which is organized by the Foundation of the Greek Parliament, twenty-three students and a teacher and an attendant from the 18th Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It is also known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-seven students and students and two teachers - attendants from the 1st Gymnasium of Argyroupolis (first section). The House welcomes them. The former President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor. Mr Voutsi, I said earlier that you have eight minutes because that is what you said to Mrs Perifanou. You're entitled 12 minutes to be fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that both the committees and the debate yesterday have been made clear by our rapporteur, Mr Papapas, and by Mr Janakopoulos, by Mrs Ahtsoglou and by those who have spoken, that this bill is, in the final and first analysis, a stirring-up of provisions on the very crucial issue of development. At the same time, it is a wrapping up, to be honest, for work. It's a wrapping for a new working middle age. And not without a surprise, they realised today that the government also believes the same thing about this bill, because the Prime Minister, all of a sudden, decided yesterday, and while we are talking here, to raise as the first issue on the agenda, which is throughout today's press, the VAT on the building. Today's debate has disappeared. It's so important. So great he considers that he has this bill that raised another issue, interesting and serious, on the agenda as the first issue. So we are probably in agreement with the burden of this attempt, even though legislative intervention is dangerous. I would like to say straight away that, on the issue of labour rights, I am truly surprised to see one sees the speed - because this was done in the summer with those amendments - degradation, cleansing, shrinking the few, but extremely important steps that had been taken, and the place was burning up in the Memorandum of Understanding on the part of the SYRIZA Government, and, obviously, it was a prelude to further widen the guarantees, the increase in wages, etc. This haste shows that there was obviously a sequence of understanding and understanding with large or smaller interests, precisely in the field of the critical of labour rights. And it is unfair because in the crisis those who have lost are precisely the workers. They suffered unemployment, they suffered the confiscation of wages, they suffered redundancies, lack of guarantees. So the new government is coming to the forefront of it, and I repeat the rest of it - labour rights. Who does not remember what newspapers wrote every day about my colleague, Mrs Ahcioglu, when she gave the battle on behalf of our government to successive assessments, to the incredible persistence of the International Monetary Fund, on the issues - one, two, three, four, five, to take it all - which are being discussed today? And it shrinks - I repeat - the first enlargement, the first legacy made after the persistence of our government and the Minister at that time. Do you remember what was written? How was the SYRIZA Government, with pleasure, however, unarmed, unable to respond in favour of Greek workers, for which they considered reasonable? How was it, in the end, accepted that there were very important achievements in this area and in the debate with the institutions? And how now on the same theories are discovered and a rhetoric is formed from this Step towards their abolition? In this respect, I believe that, in terms of both the KINAL and the other parliamentary forces of counter-population, there is a proper, serious criticism of the substance. Let me tell you that yesterday's speech yesterday from Mr Georgiades to say that the Constitution allows for the abolition or rather unilateral reading on the question of arbitration, which is crucial, is a monument. This is the absolute idea and thought of how the Constitution can really not be thrown away side by side, but not in any case. It's the epitome of unconstitutional legacy. And the justification itself really left this whole question of guarantees, wages, etc. The same on the question of development. All the objections that have been, I repeat, by other forces of counter-population as to whether the anticipated cannot withstand a coherent, holistic, strategic perception, with the priorities, with the branches, etc., have come to the surface, how much more than they have been supplemented by the incredible amendments that are for interests and for reservoirs of approximately photography. No concern about the environment, redundancies, wage cuts. All this is evidence of a strategy of insistence that, if in these areas there is a green light to potential investors, they have, they do not have the money. It's been this country before bankruptcy, you remember. About 180 billion were found outside development laws. Bring the account of the development laws brought before the governments before judgment. I'm telling you, Mr. Stakoura. Get the account of where that money went, how much investments were made and how much they left. No care. The insistence is that - precisely contrary to any international example and with the current phase of globalization internationally - with lower wages, with a contraction of labour guarantees, with closure of eyes on environmental irregularities and a broader understanding of this issue, with administrative, irrational interventions, with redundancies. How many redundancies were made following the amendment during the summer? Get us the list. I'm not an economist. You know that. But I'm watching. New kids are coming. They told me that in two weeks after the amendment that came here, tens of people were leaving. Don't we know that? We don't know? I would like to say, therefore, that in general, there is a very rapid prevalence of neo-conservative folding, a neo-conservative climate within the country. I've said it publicly. I'm not afraid. You know that a lot of things we say in public can be used as they like, which incorporate the tendency of political liberalism that is found and was also strong with branded officials and within the New Democracy. That's clear. In other words, the policies of the neoliberals, the authoritarian, the state-based attitudes of the state, of education, of the priests and all that students are gathering at 12.00 hours to protest about how all the positive measures that have been taken were taken back to the very broadening of the social mobility and the quality of our universities at this critical stage. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. All of these issues - I will not go into the recent 'Joker' and so on. - they are a feedback to society of the most conservative, fearful emotions, and that is extremely dangerous. Ladies and gentlemen, from this step by night, others will speak. What happened in Brasna the other day or in other places I do not see it at all with a feeling to say that 'you can now see a policy', namely the transfer of certain numbers and sensitive groups of migrants and refugees and the resistance we have found on the continent. Now we all find it in front of us together. They came to come out of their hearts and mushrooms for the Pelasgians, for who have clean blood for two thousand years. Some ridiculous things, however, particularly dangerous for our homeland that we all know very well that the national recent was remodeled and built, through the successive impurities and impurities and reports and the entrance of the Pontians to the north, and so on. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] These are extremely dangerous things. This conservative feedback that exists in society and for reasons of crisis, but which you have also created, in particular on the basis of the Prespes, we find it in front of us, we will also find it in the resolution of serious issues such as refugee immigration in a direction of humanity based on international rules, international conditions and pressure on the European Union to take the decisions that have been put in the drawer and with which our country could go on other very critical issues. So today's bill is the krone in the field of labour, the critical, the socio-taxation of a shape, a course, a strategy that over three and a half months seems very fast and I can only say is in a direction of creating a new conservative pole, extremely dangerous for our society and for our workers. It is obvious that the resistance cannot only be within this Chamber from the speeches of the Officerial Resistance and the other forces of the Opposition. To a large extent they also raise awareness of society, and I believe that society will also be given a solution and resistance to this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u99	Thank you. The Minister for Finance, Mr Stavouras, has asked for the floor. Mr Stavoura, you have the floor for ten minutes with tolerance. You've asked for 15 minutes. We'll see how the process goes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, with all due respect you have spoken and repeated the phrases'return to a neo-conservative climate, neo-conservative principles'. In everything we've done in the field of the economy so far, Mr. Chakalotos is rushing to say that we copy what he started. So if he had started them and implemented us, we can't have turned around, you'd have done it before. Just, what happens is that you still have an ideological and political confusion. You are ideological and political anemones. We follow the basic principles of social liberalism. And since you spoke about the Prime Minister's position yesterday, I would like to say that he submitted a comprehensive comprehensive economic policy plan, which looks at how it will improve the country's wealth, the current demand for the bill, by strengthening consumption, but by focusing particular attention on investment and exports, in order to do what is our goal, the productive reconstruction of the economy. How is that possible? This is done by high and sustainable economic growth, by creating many good jobs and by strengthening social cohesion. And with what policies? He talked about a triangle yesterday, about fiscal policies and tabled an integrated financial intervention framework for 2020 and in the coming years based on tax and insurance reductions, spoke about implementing structural changes, whose key point is the current bill, for which he spent enough time developing his provisions and spoke about strengthening liquidity in the real economy, mainly through the credit expansion of a sound banking system. So you will allow me to tell you, regardless of the cover of the newspapers today, that what was developed by the Prime Minister yesterday was an integrated economic plan based on the axes of social liberalism. Ladies and gentlemen, in the government's programming statements, I said that one of the priorities of the Ministry of Finance - to get into the essence of the bill - is the regulation of the online gambling market. This was supposed to be - and I will put it out in the Minutes - a commitment to the previous political leadership of the Ministry, with a deadline for implementation in December 2017, a maximum time point in December 2017. However, it has never been implemented. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today, in the first three months of new governance, we are legislating. We are legislating on creating a comprehensive, coherent and effective legislative framework for the purchase of online games in our country. The proposed legislative intervention is indeed taking into account initiatives taken by the previous government which have been sent abroad. The comments from the relevant European services, as presented in August 2019, are taken into account and many comments from the consultation are incorporated and most legislative interventions from the Independent Committee on Game Surveillance and Control, as delivered a few days ago. What do we achieve with this draft law? Multiple targets. The framework for the operation of the online gambling market is upgraded and modernised by regulation. Health conditions of competition are ensured between providers active in the market. The safe participation of players is ensured through systematic licensing and control rules. Investments are attracted, personal data and money transfer are protected. Public revenues are increased both through the licensing process and through the rationalisation of the operation and the tax base of this market. Finally, the protection of players by moving a significant part of them from illegal internet gambling networks to legal and fully controlled networks is strengthened. More specifically, with the provisions contained in the bill, the open type authorisation procedure is first established in the standards of the broadly accepted model class. This was suggested by the previous political leadership of the Ministry of Finance. Secondly, there are only two types of online gambling licenses per category of games, as in most European countries, one for online betting and one for other online games. Toys of both categories may also be carried out using a lottery generator, as is done in most European countries. Thirdly, the Greek State's price is set to permit online betting at EUR 3 million, to license other online games at EUR 2 million, 3 for the first licence, 2 for the second. The licence shall have a duration of seven years with the possibility of renewing the same price. The proposed price for obtaining and maintaining the license for gambling online is both correct and reasonable, because it ensures the entry of serious and reliable companies into the market in question, thereby strengthening and protecting players. This is the price that the proposal and the previous government have provided for. The Committee on Game Surveillance and Control maintains that, under the economic conditions prevailing in Greece, the one-off price should be at least EUR 2 million per licence category. We have heard and read the point of view of operators. The total price will not change. What we do with legislative improvement is to allow the payment of the price to be financial, equal, in two years' time for each licence. Fourthly, strict legal and economic conditions are laid down which gaming service providers must comply with via the internet throughout the licence, as well as obstacles to participation in the licensing process, in order to protect the interests of players and to ensure the safe conduct of the entire activity in general. Fifthly, the supervisory role of the competent committee for the supervision and control of toys is strengthened. I would like to stress this point. The EEPC's view is that there should be an even more important role for it. How? With the Gaming Regulation itself. The draft law argues that by a decision of the Minister of Finance, as currently in force, issued following a recommendation from the EEPC, the Rules of Procedure are laid down. Given that the market for online games is completely regulated, it could, if the opposition parties agree, be changed to the relevant provision. But I would like the agreement of the opposition parties, otherwise the provision will not change, so that there is no doubt as to the incentive to change. Sixth, it is envisaged that online gambling should be conducted exclusively through systems linked to the information system of supervision and control, an information system in which the Committee on Gambling Supervision and Control has access. The SPS shall be required to send irreversible data, upon processing, analysis and grouping of data, to the AACC and to any other competent authority, upon request. A five hundred thousand euro guarantee letter from a credit institution is required to permit online gambling. Seventh, the rules for the taxation of gaming services providers are clarified and streamlined online on the Greek territory, with reference to the applicable provisions of the Code of Income Tax, as well as to players. There is no change in the taxation of toys on gross revenue as currently in force. The study of GRANT THORNTON in November 2017, carried out on behalf of the former political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, recommends maintaining the same status and rates. Finally, a transitional provision is provided to enable all companies currently operating with the legality of their tax capacity and legal establishment to continue to operate without any special treatment for a short period of time, but requiring them to provide specific supporting documents and to demonstrate certain quality characteristics. We move on to this provision because we consider it disproportionate today to demand that these companies be stopped and reopened with the new regime in a short time. It should be recalled that the maintenance of a transitional regime provided for by the previous government. In conclusion, as has been said, the immediate adoption and implementation of these provisions is considered to be positive and necessary and constitutes an integrated and adequate framework in which transparency - with transparency and rationalisation - is promoted - a modern, fair regulatory framework for the online gambling market, and we are able to regulate one so far effectively unregulated market, with all the beneficial effects for the economy. However, the SYRIZA rapporteur also referred to another provision, saying that we are facilitating government governors and executives, with increases in their earnings. This is where the "good" begins! Indeed, there is a provision - if you want to hear, Mr Pappas, why you may need to answer, you will see some signatures here - in the draft law which introduces a definite exception to the level of remuneration of members of the boards of directors of specific public enterprises whose shares have been transferred to the EAW, what you say is that we are facilitating certain managers and managers of companies. I've got the Practical excerpt. Which public enterprises? Only those with more than three thousand employees or their turnover at company or group level exceeds EUR 100 million. We are essentially referring to two groups, OSCE and ELTA. Is there a ceiling cap? Indeed, there is. 90% of the rewards of the President of the Ice Bay. It is noted that this decision - hold this - is taken following a documented assessment on the basis of specific qualitative and quantitative indicators of performance. Furthermore, remuneration is approved following a decision by the supreme body of the SPS, which is the General Meeting of the sole shareholder, i.e. the Greek State as represented by the Minister of Finance. This is because the administrative bodies are particularly committed to increased obligations and responsibilities due to large turnover and number of employees, the complexity, complexity and the purpose of the public undertakings concerned. The aim is to make public enterprises competitive in the sector where they operate and to become a lever for the economy. But you were rushed to say that we tabled this in order to facilitate our 'our own children'. I have here the amendment you tabled to the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u101	Will you table your speech on this amendment and what did you say in 2018?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u102	Sure. Can I finish up a little bit? You're in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u103	What did you say to us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u104	I first reply to Mr Pappa, who was raped yesterday. You need to figure it out between you two, then. Amendment 2018...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u105	That you supported. Did you support her?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u106	You'll see the difference, Mr. Chakaloto. We're not the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u107	What did you say then you're going to tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u108	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u109	Minister, I would like to tell you that you requested 15 minutes and we are already at 14 and thirty-three minutes. I would just like to say this to you so that other Members can join us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u110	But I'm interrupted. Amendment 4 July 2018...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u111	That you supported.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Chakaloto, please don't interrupt. The Minister must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u113	I'm asking for clarification. I'm sure he wants to clarify the attitude they had taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u114	Later. Mr. Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u115	Amendment, July 2018, exactly the same as that which we are tabling, in a big difference, Mr Chakaloto. We're not the same. We put quality characteristics in the evaluation. You didn't have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u116	Isn't that why you supported her?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u117	Signatures: Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Drasakis, Mr.Gavroglou, Mrs. Ahtsoglou - I do not believe that you will vote against today - Mr. Kontonis, Mr. Kotzias, Mr. Tsakalotos, Mrs. Gerovasili, Mrs. Konordos, Mr. Apostolos, Mrs. Kountoura, Mr. Juliarakis, Mrs. Papanatsiou, Mr. Petropoulos. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I therefore assume that since we in our amendment also have more criteria to give these gains - it is our difference! - you'll vote for it. Unless you're doing another asshole!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u118	What did you say in 2018? Did you support the amendment? Why don't you give me an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u119	Mr. Chakalato, please. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue the process, I would like to tell you that at the moment only one speaker has spoken since yesterday, Mr Avramakis. Seventy-four speakers have left, three parliamentary representatives, the heads of the parties and ten ministers. If we continue in this context, it will be very difficult for all Members to speak. There have been some arrangements both for Mr. Drasakis and Mrs. Bakoyannis since yesterday. Mr Gokas, Mr Drasakis and Mrs Bakoyannis will speak and then Minister Tsiaras will speak. We will continue with three speakers. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, I have told you that the next Minister, Mrs Keramea, will go. I would therefore ask both Members and Ministers not to exceed their time, which is to the benefit of all of us. Thank you. Mr. Gokas from the Movement of Change, then Mr. Drasakis, then Mrs. Bakoyannis, followed by Mrs. Kerameos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, for the first two speakers we said there would be an exception in time. And it happened for the first speaker. I would like your tolerance to me as a second speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, the progress towards the real and definitive exit from the crisis can only be linked to a comprehensive plan for productive and economic reconstruction in the country. However, despite the declarations and the persistent communication effort, this plan does not exist on the part of the government, at least until now, and it is obviously not included in the bill that we are discussing and on individual diffuse arrangements of many Ministries and its content does not justify the ambitious title "Investing in Greece". There is no design with specific objectives and directions for economic activities. Production and production activities are ignored. Of course, capital and investment are needed, but without a framework, rules and a roadmap it is pointless to expect investment and, if they come, in these circumstances they will have a zero effect on society, on the real economy, on the future of the country. The country, ladies and gentlemen, has been behind 2014 at least 12 points in the growth rate. Today, large surpluses, taxation and unfavourable insurance contributions, the mortgageation of public property to the surplus, the failure of banks to finance the economy of the country, except that the banks are constantly increasing the charges, and that is why we have tabled an amendment to that effect. Your weaknesses and the lack of a plan, gentlemen of the government, should not lead you to try to move from the ideas that existed on SYRIZA into an unconditional tradition on the markets. Because SYRIZA, leveling the middle class, farmers, professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises and the most creative part of society wanted to create an economy with owners of specific people and a society with benefits instead of decent workers, while for you the markets are the foundation of your neoliberal ideology and the unconditional tradition to them leads to the same results as SYRIZA's policy. In this bill, ladies and gentlemen, there are no provisions and regulations to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which are always decisive for the Greek economy, while the arrangements that actually lead to the abolition of sectoral agreements are at the expense of both workers and the small and medium-sized employer, under the conditions of unhealthy competition that will arise between these companies. The draft law seeks a more favourable approach for both environmental studies and authorisations for establishment and operation in various economic and manufacturing activities. But here in our country we are used to moving between the ends, from non-controlling to absolute control and vice versa. Now we're going to a relaxation. I do not think, however, that we are in balance at the best, while Lernay Hydra of bureaucracy is always in prison. Now, I come to individual articles. In Article 10, it is necessary to register infrastructure for buildings but the register must become operational and make use of the infrastructure, but also to carry out the maintenance and energy upgrades required and not mentioned. Article 12, paragraph 21, provides for the reduction of the environmental classification class within the business park due to the care of its environmental authorisation when established. However, it cannot be predicted precisely the kind of activities that will be carried out, because it is of great importance to the type of individual activity, regardless of the classification of the environment. Article 13 provides for the abolition of operating authorisations for category A2, because the same activity has been subject to environmental approval. In other words, an administrative act that is usually adopted quickly will be removed. Parallel approvals, however, remain, but also the specificity of each A2 activity. Paragraph 3 provides for the abolition of nuisances and single environmental licensing. However, there are different urban provisions defined on the basis of nuisance levels in relation to environmental licensing categories. Therefore, there needs to be a change in the relevant urban provisions and the activities to be matched by the IRSs for all cases. Article 14 provides for an exemption from the authorisation and migration to the notification scheme of standardised activities for all the terms and conditions for the conduct of the economic activity, provided that they are certified and evaluated by independent accredited bodies. However, this means an additional cost, known from other already required certifications, health certificates, equipment, etc. Since specific standards have been laid down, I think it is easy to check by services, so that this financial burden does not exist. For the electronic land use records. It's important. But all the data need to be interconnected, and there are significant loose ends both with the forest maps and with the Land register. Everything needs to be done in a single system and provision should be made for the possibility of direct information to the interested parties on problems relating to distances between different uses, such as from and to agri-food establishments. For Article 81. Re-establish the ability to perform projects with the design system - construction. This system must concern very specific buildings and special structures with specified specifications and pre-studies, conditions not specified in the provisions of Article. I have referred to the Commission for the radio aerial structures, and I expect the comments on the articles to be incorporated. Otherwise, we're positive. In Article 82, the solution is not to install the contractor more quickly by increasing the possibility of paying clauses, but it is more appropriate to intervene to speed up expropriations and the report of analytical archaeological documentation. For Article 156 on the urgency of the static and technical issues of the public buildings of Ministries and supervised bodies, I think that we need to improve the existing framework and cooperation with other services outside ministries to meet these needs, but that is also a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u121	Mr Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u122	I shall close and thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u123	It's just, we've been to eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that the logic, structure and content of the bill lead us to vote at first reading, since it is not a means of developing a development strategy that the country needs. We will, however, vote on the articles which we consider to be positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Goka. Mr. Drasakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Georgiadis, you must have a lot of good friends in the media.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u127	I do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u128	Someone said to me before: 'Why did you say 'bravo' to Mr Georgiadis the other day?' I did not say 'bravo'. I was pleased to hear that an almost complete bill we had left pending, Mr Georgiadis incorporated it in this bill. And I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that when Mr Georgiadis and Mr Stagioras have voted for the microcredit bill, which was also almost ready, we did not have time to put it to the vote. Because they are created and impressed, I would like to say this: what was missing in this country decades ago was not yet some fragmentary measures or some customer regulations, photographic or non- photographic. What was missing in our country and was also a reason for bankruptcy was the lack of development planning, the lack of a structured development strategy. In this respect, despite the limitations we have had, memorandum and others, the previous government has done an important task towards which we are also responsible for what will become of this project. I am referring to the fact that for the first time an integrated holistic development strategy has been established following scientific and social dialogue. Secondly, we have passed a new development law and a law on strategic investment. Thirdly, this is the possibility of multi-annual public investment programmes for national development programmes, which is now being voted on. It is also the development bank and especially financial tools, and it is the modernisation of company law, it is the draft law on microcredits which, as I said before, is still pending. This institutional project put the foundations to go to a new development model, a new productive model. The whole world, as well as the investors asking you, as we were asking, what is your country's productive future? Well, tourism, but apart from tourism, what else do you want to do? How will you join the fourth industrial revolution? What specialties did you want to have? But I'm not talking about anything theoretical or abstract. With what has been mediated and with what continues to be done with this bill, I am convinced that there is no mood for any of the things we have left standing. It can typically be the development bank, but I'm convinced that she too will freeze it. If I'm disproved, I'll be happy and we'll be here to talk about it, because your logic is not a logic of development planning, here we see what it is. You're on a sense of development through service. Anyone who wants something is asking for it, and if it belongs to the sphere of your own interests and interests, parties, politicians and others, it goes into it and does not make sustainable development on the basis of the UN's sustainable development objectives. What I would like to do in the short time I have to say is, at least, because I cannot analyse them, five major changes made by this bill - there are many others - to what we have created as a prerequisite for a transition, as I have said, to new model development. The first reversal concerns the development strategy itself. You're removing it. It's not mentioned anywhere. There's not even a development strategy for you. What is in place is what we are discussing here, such as fragmentary arrangements of one and the other. However, what the objectives are and how we are going to go to these objectives and what the tool we have to give to international organisations, to the European Union, to consult each other, etc. There is no such thing, you have canceled it, and you put this logic of fragmentary arrangements in place. Secondly, you are destroying the logic and notion of incentives. Ladies and gentlemen, incentives are public money, it is taxpayers' money, which is given to completely selected sectors that cannot be developed through markets, but we consider that it is national or social interest to develop these sectors. That is the logic of incentives. You're the one who breaks up that logic. You are going to motivate everyone and the processor and the mining worker and the industryist and the one who wants to do any form of service, endurance, any exogenous and others. This is where huge political issues arise. What right are you doing this with? Why, Minister, should tourist dwellings and not other dwellings, that is, one contractor dosing alpha tomorrow, be subsidized and the other making beta for the world will not be subsidized? Aren't you telling me, these last-minute vicious arrangements allow in Greek if they become dwellings, to be subsidized? Is this the big investment coming from abroad, the funds? The structure of the bill does not allow any substantial discussion in depth, but do not think that the law will be passed and forgotten, we will take it as a point along with the actors in society who are interested in something more serious than what you are doing. Thirdly, we have, as a country, a dilemma from an old age: will we go to low-value sectors, that is, to export agricultural products without standardisation? So we're just going to export light industrial products? Can we stand up to the euro, or are we going to a model of high added value, an economy based on the knowledge we talked about? If we wanted the second one, it means we have to go there and target...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Comrade, finish it up. You've reached six minutes and thirty seconds. Would you like another minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u130	I think so, and if you give it to me, I'll use it. We had launched a process to go to a new production model, sustainable, fair, modern, extroverts. You dismantle it. Let's go to an intra-structural model with services and low value added activities without any sustainability and sustainability. The fourth is the dismantling of labour rights because, as the Bank of Greece explains in its paper, because your policy does not raise productivity, productivity deficits will be called upon by workers by reducing wages to cover them. I won't develop the extroversion due to time. Therefore, your bill dissolves a system that we have shaped for the transition of the economy to a model of sustainable, modern and extroverted growth. You are driving the country into a state of unreserved economic activity. If there is any growth that will be much lower than the 4% that you had made your electoral flag. It is clear that you have not taken lessons from the crisis whether the crisis occurred either we went bankrupt or I don't see at any point in here there's a sense of what we're doing leading...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Drasakis, you've reached eight minutes. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I have completed and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u133	The Minister has asked for the floor, Mr Georgiadis, followed by Mrs Bakoyannis. Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u134	Mr Minister, first of all I think that we were in committee the day before yesterday we heard what you said and there is no misunderstanding from me. You spoke about the part of the bill that is your product and your work. I never thought of the idea that we were ideologically identifiable and agreed on the model, to be informed. About the microcredits you mentioned, I have to tell you that the ministry is already working on the draft law you've left, it wasn't fully ready. I have to tell you that there is a dissatisfaction about who will exercise supervision. We are in a discussion with the Bank of Greece and the Ministry of Finance. I believe that soon this top issue will have been resolved and the micro-credit bill that we believe and we want to bring him. As far as the development model is concerned, not to say much, I said to have a debate in committee, if you wish only for that, about what development we want. Obviously, our views will not coincide, because these debates are ideological. The tourist dwellings for us yes, it is a sector that the Greek economy can grow very much and in future has a great growth in Greece, especially from the tourist dwellings that are a different market from the one we had so far used to in Greece. So, to close it, because I have heard unstoppable criticism of the issue of mineral wealth and integration into the development incentives and the mining process, I will read you from page 48 of your own text on the strategic development of the country, the one you delivered to me on the day of receipt, because I have read it. I read page 48, which will also be of interest to Mr Papapas: 'Development objective: Sustainable exploitation of fossil raw materials'. If, Minister, in your development model, you set as one of your objectives for the Greek economy the sustainable exploitation of fossil raw materials, why is it absurd for us to say that the mining processes, such as the extraction of marble, which I have brought in, make sense if they are given the opportunity to renew their equipment through the development law and thus become more competitive with their export activity? After both of us agree that there must be a sustainable development in the export of mineral wealth. You do not disagree at first.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u135	Only mining is not viable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u136	That's what I'm saying. Here, Minister, throughout the debate we hear a so-called general criticism of SYRIZA that you are against mining when you have set it in your own model as one of the country's major development goals.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u137	Sustainable exploitation!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u138	So, to close it, because you know that I really respect you and respect the work you do, it would be useful to have this debate in peace, not in the eyes of a bill article, but indeed in the eyes of a genuine development plan for the country and to see where we agree and where we disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of ENIZELOS, thirty-seven students and students and two teachers from the 1st Argyroupolis High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President, and the opportunity to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, some of us who are a little older in this Chamber have lived in the previous House. I think that from the crisis we have all come to a conclusion and our conclusion is that Greece cannot come out of the crisis unless there is growth. We may have, because this Parliamentary policy is, different approaches to individual issues, but we all agree on the central objective: we know that growth is not being ordered and we also know that, in order for growth, specific policies are needed to create jobs. I would remind you that we are talking about jobs, ladies and gentlemen. Jobs need the country, well-paid jobs. They cannot come out of the public sector, they will have to come from the private sector. But here I want to speak purely politically. Ladies and gentlemen, you have brought two development bills when you were in the government. I was responsible for the New Democracy and Mr Drasakis knows it. The New Democracy has approached both bills of good faith in order to agree on what is absolutely necessary and to facilitate decisions on development. And we voted for it, because that was our goal. Our aim was not to oppose the ruins. And you come three months after the election and a bill is coming which you all know is dealing with by too many ministries, perhaps, but it was bureaucratic, such as those that stopped investments, which solved issues that facilitated businesses, which enabled people to make investments and thus create jobs. And you come and we heard the same wooden stuff again, let me say - I was young and old - 'no neoliberal approach', 'no bayian logic', 'no neo-conservationism', 'no labels'. But you have used these arguments in the election, and the Greek people did not believe them. Why do you keep talking about it? There's no one to believe these things. I think that the approach to the issue of development must be a broader approach of consensus, which you deny. You have taken, in my view, the wrong path, ladies and gentlemen. The culmination of this story is as follows. And I feel the need to say it now that I see the President, Mr. Voutsi. Tell me, please, very much. You were negotiated by the Ministry of the Environment on the subject of hydrocarbons in Crete, the contract. It was negotiated by Mr. George Stathakis. You signed it by all the ministers. You agreed and was your Prime Minister on TV and celebrated this signature. And your government falls and comes to the House. And when the contract comes to Parliament, you are voting against. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, what credibility a political body can have. How is it ever possible to vote against your signature? The lack of this credibility is a structural problem today for the functioning of the political system. Because I am ready to discuss everything in good faith and admit ideas. And this government has already proved it, accepting proposals of counter-population. But this is another political culture that the New Democracy has. And you come and trying to find strategic opposition, you vote against yourself. These are not serious things, ladies and gentlemen. And it's not serious, because the country has many problems. Today we're talking about growth. We will perhaps discuss other issues tomorrow, even heavier than the issues of development. We cannot find a modus vivendi, in which we instantly agree that we have a duration in our political speech and in our arguments. We cannot change the position of opposition - government to bring you or believe you can turn the clock back to '15, Mr. Poppa. It can't be done. It's not because you now have history and you've signed signatures. And you have no doubt that if you don't connect to your signatures, we're here to remind you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mrs. Bakoyannis, for the time. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now go to Mr Delis, Mr Haritsis and Mr Arvanitides. Mr Tsiaras will be speaking and before Mr Tsiaras will be speaking for a minute on an amendment. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u142	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, any people who expect to benefit from the development of the capitalist economy will also benefit from any worker and worker, ignoring or underestimating the dangerous character, the anti-grain content and the anti-linguistic conditions of this capitalist development, then take a look at today's draft law that has the "Invest in Greece and other provisions". It could, of course, also have the title 'opened and we are waiting for you'. A simple reading of his articles is enough. He will see within a few articles dispersed in his eyes historical divisions of the working class, such as collective agreements, for which rivers of blood were spilled. It will see this done in the most inappropriate way, through the so many foreseeable exceptions that are enough to make the rule not to apply the collective agreements, which otherwise, in theory apply. It will see the New Democracy finishing SYRIZA's work, which five years as government has stubbornly refused to restore collective agreements, even the minimum wage at EUR 751 and will immediately feel the threat from the intensity of the exploitation of his own work that awaits him. He'll also see and understand then and why governments and great-grandfathers are burning up his own unions, doing electronics, he says, their registries so that they can control them without much trouble. He will understand why they so much want to help him not to get tired, they say, at it - come and vote for his representatives or decide for his struggles and for his life from his mobile phone with a sms, as if it were for Eurovision and not all of this action and his struggle for the trade union to take strength and courage through its live general meetings together with his colleagues. He will see all of this and then he will understand why the industrialists and the big-timers are pouring honey for this bill, since it has been done for them to make their lives easier and better, as the Minister of Development admitted, as if they were going through badly, of course, meaning that the Minister would attentive their profits through the exploitation of workers. That is exactly what capitalist growth will say: Profits and wild-class exploitation are its foundations. However, anyone who makes the effort and reads the bill will find other stimulants of this development. It will, let us say, simplify the procedures at all levels and environmental permits to come out without much - much - and, indeed, it will first allow businesses to start operating and any checks on the necessary documents will be carried out ex post. It will find the protection and promotion of cultural heritage flying aside, along with the archaeological obstacles, they say, which must be sidelined. Of course - Woe-woe! - in the same bill it will find, as always, a lot of incentives taxly up to free money for business groups, while the self-employed are on their knees from taxation and workers from the wages and wages of hunger. For investors, however, there are also provisions on education, there is the end of the bill, Article 169, which extends the B.C. 38 of 2010 for the so-called free movement of workers. So this decree, which SYRIZA maintained today, renews the New Democracy, provides for free practical practice and the adequacy test, so as to ensure equal professional skills. It actually makes workers pass through a trial period, offering hard work to employers, uninsured and uninsured, in order to have the right to access to a profession. This, of course, is the requirement of employers everywhere throughout the European Union. The news that New Democracy brings today is the extension of unacceptable test work to graduates from third countries, outside the European Union, in order to recognise their professional equilibrium. And SYRIZA comes here and goes up to the bars on this issue, once again showing that his hypocrisy has no limits. Why can't you have the European Union's krone mobility in your head, you can't have voted for and implemented all the Community directives and laws that lead to the categorisation of the diplomas and the formation of the single market with them and then to come and complain about the European Union's policy! To the contrary, we do not have the young people who come to our country to work, from whatever country they come, whether Greek or foreign, to the contrary we have their governments and policies which are now undermining their studies and degrees and categorizing graduates. The question is urgent: will we allow their development to scan what their judgment has left? The first answer you'll get her this afternoon with the PAME rally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u143	Thank you. There were four Members before. Mr. Tsiaras will now come to Stepma, and then Mr. Haritsis, Mr. Arvanitides, Mr. Davakis, Mr. Kavvadas, will follow. Mr Lebanese will then speak about the amendment and then Mrs Kerameo will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the a.d.40 of 2013, the road to electronic lodgement of pleadings was opened in administrative trials. Six years later, unfortunately, the results of the voluntary utilization of electronic means in administrative justice proved to be very poor. With the provisions of the Ministry of Justice's jurisdiction in the development bill, the Government establishes the compulsory electronic deposit and service of documents to the Council of State and to the ordinary administrative courts as from 1 January 2021. At the same time, the existing institutional framework, which will support it sufficiently, is amended to speed up the penetration of new technologies into administrative justice. This is how modern technologies in administrative justice are actually being exploited. We are, however, taking a step further, as the introduction of digital procedurals achieves the complete dematerialisation of administrative proceedings. Thus, the authenticity and integrity of the pleadings, as well as the whole of the case-file and the exact time for the submission of each document, are fully ensured, while eliminating the administrative costs of the performance carried out by the administrative courts and significantly limiting the time required for such performance. With these provisions, Greece implements the necessary reforms, which will enable our country to be brought closer together with the best practices of the most advanced countries in Europe in the field of justice. I imagine you will know - it is well known - that electronic submission of pleadings is already compulsory in French administrative justice, in which Greek justice, the Greek system, specializes. A similar model of compulsory electronic submission of pleadings also exploits Germany and Austria. First of all, electronic submission of pleadings is the best practice adopted by the Court of Justice of the European Union and by the General Court. Ladies and gentlemen, just last week in Strasbourg, in the Council of Europe's work, we discussed the challenges of new technological developments, which certainly create new opportunities to improve the quality and efficiency of justice, focusing on the achievements of artificial intelligence. I imagine you realise that this is a debate, which unfortunately reveals how much distance we have to go to adapting justice to the digital age and harmonising our legal system with the European Commission's guidelines for the effectiveness of the Council of Europe's justice. I would like to submit to the Minutes the relevant decisions and legislation of France and of the Court of Justice of the European Union on informing Members of the European Parliament and confirming the National Delegation for the government's political will. [[At this point, the Minister for Justice, Mr Constantine Tsiara, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I want to assure you of the given political will to take the necessary steps to adapt Greek justice to the new digital age, but firm steps that give the necessary time by 2021, in order to implement all the necessary technical adjustments to the comprehensive system of judicial management of administrative justice and at the same time give the time for the incorporation, incorporation, use of the electronic signature, which is necessary for everyone, judiciary officers and judicial officers, lawyers and members of the Legal Board of the State, in order to carry out their duties in the new digital environment for Greek justice. At the same time, the registration of the registration number on the documents facilitates the identification of the parties, while the obligation to register the e-mail address in the documents by the parties is necessary for the performance of the service by the court. Furthermore, Article 79 of the draft law lays down, by decision of the court or tribunal, the possibility for the parties and their proxy lawyers to take part in the meeting and to conduct procedural proceedings before the Court, situated in a different place from that of the meeting. We are obviously talking about the so-called teleconference. The examination of witnesses, experts and parties may also be decided without attending the Chamber. This eliminates the cost of the movement of parties, witnesses, etc., in order to participate in the court's meeting, but also in the composition of the court itself, after it has been possible to discuss in the court's transitional seat without any change in composition. Those who know about transitional seats know how big a problem there is especially in island Greece, in order to move the compositions of the courts in order to make these women into a transition home. Finally, Article 80 of the draft law provides for the annual grant from the FFHG to the Council of State, which is the principal project for the HSF, to cover directly the expenditure relating to the reorganisation, upgrading, improvement and security of the infrastructure of that system. Ladies and gentlemen, I have briefly developed the main provisions of the Ministry of Justice, which have been included in the Ministry of Development bill, to strengthen the country's reformist and development effort. However, the points of association with the Ministry of which I have the honour of leading are diffuse in the draft law in question, especially on the issues of business parks. I have observed that there were objections to any disputes about the establishment of business parks in the committees. For this reason, and within the framework of the Ministry of Justice's competences, parallel actions are implemented and necessary legislative initiatives are promoted, such as strengthening the mediation institution. A modern tool of extrajudicial dispute resolution, which allows time and resources to be saved for the parties involved, and we believe that it will be very dismantled by the courts, thus increasing the chances of a dispute being resolved more quickly and thus allowing for a faster return to normal economic activity. With these considerations, I call on my fellow Members to vote in favour of the provisions of the Ministry of Development bill, thereby supporting the serious effort being made to keep our national economy orbited. After all, everyone knows that it has been in this direction with optimism and confidence in the last few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Minister, and much more about time. Mr. Haritsis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if I were a newspaper director and had to put a title in today's multi-brand plan, that would be a journey in the past. I think that this New Democracy bill best reflects what the government has been trying to do since 8 July. Sometimes, of course, he does so with incidents that take gray proportions, such as in the case of police invasions in film rooms and sometimes with bills, such as this one, which actually constitute a return to the past. And I'm talking about returning to the past for two main reasons. Firstly, because we are turning to a logic, around the development that refers to an inefficient, fragmentary and, above all, unsustainable development model. A logic and a model of 'cement to be done', which is borne, among other things, by many other problems and by the fact that our country has been led to the economic crisis, has exacerbated social inequalities, has been burdened, without a return, the environment. Secondly, because this multi-project incorporates provisions, particularly in the field of employment, which have been analysed by my colleagues in the SYRIZA with great adequacy, I think, the specific provisions - which, in our view, constitute a return to the worst days of the Memorandum Committee - have been re-established by my colleagues in SYRIZA to a great deal of succession and anti-development policy which has had a very great impact on the society as a whole. The worst of all is that this return comes at a time, at a time when the collective effort of the Greek people, as well as the choices of the SYRIZA government, had created the conditions for a different course. A development path, a path that could with a central pillar the concept of the project and ends the introduction of rules, lead to social justice, environmental upgrading, strategic emergence in the end to a new economic and social model for Greece of the 21st century. In my opinion, too, the greater responsibility of the New Democracy is also identified. At the very moment, which we can lead the country, we have the historic potential for a decisive step forward, we are returning to the past, and it is worth wondering, in my opinion, how, in such a massive, so far-resolved plan, there is no mention of any reference to a plan, a strategy, to highlight strategic advantages that the country has, which we ultimately want to direct development in this place. In my opinion, one of the most important moments of the SYRIZA government over the last four years has been the preparation of the national development strategy. It was the first time that a government took the initiative, even in the midst of a Memorandum Treaty, to draw up an integrated plan that takes into account the specificities and the potential and advantages of the Greek economy, to set clear objectives and timetables and to respond realistically to international challenges. A strategy that emerged after extensive consultation of society at development conferences in all thirteen regions of the country. You, this complete plan, you chose to ignore it completely. You will also allow me to refer to something that has given me a special impression, as it runs the whole text of this plan, I would say. It is the demonisation of all forms of control and control. The abolition of rules, the incorporation of the logic of the wild West, where the law applied was that of all kinds - within many introductorys - "investor". It is clear that what the New Republic's ideological perception cannot stand is the existence of rules, rules which are necessary for substantial productive reconstruction in the country. Why, for us, the rules are not stumbling blocks, they are not burdensome, but on the contrary, they are necessary conditions, so that we do not find ourselves in the vicious circle that growth was linked to the interests of the "mothers", to the unregulated and effective logic of "I invest quickly, I make profit and even faster I leave the country." As before there was a discussion on mining, it is another thing to say that I am investing or subsidising an activity that creates an integrated chain of value in the domestic production system and another to say that I donate someone who comes to exploit the natural wealthy resources of our country and then all the goodwill to transfer it abroad. But, in my opinion, Article 158, which stipulates that forms of companies operating in the media are excluded from the denomination of their shares to a natural person. Explain what sense, apart from the New Democracy's desire to reward its strong friends, this arrangement has been made. Allergies to rules and controls, the absence of any concept of strategy and planning are, in our view, not random. They start from the same hard neoliberal logic as "regulator of everything the market, law of the mighty, demanding the shrinking of public space in all fields". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And since I am referring to the public space, let me say about Article 179, which uncontrolledly opens the door to privatising critical self-government services in green, street lighting and, of course, above all, where the big business is, cleansing. Indeed, this is happening - and symbolism is worthy - on the very days that are completed and the latest procedures for the definitive recruitment of eight and a half thousand full-time workers to the municipalities throughout the country, with the famous 3K declaration, for which we have fought to make a reality. I think it is the most characteristic example of this ideology of the New Democracy Government of privatising everything. Of course, because they have heard beforehand about the differences we have, I would like to say that it is clear that there are two radically divergent ideological conceptions of development, one that we have and the other that the New Democracy Government has. We do not think that an anarchist, fragmentary and counterproductive final model, which has prevailed in the country since the 1990s and, of course, in the years of the crisis, can lead us to sustainable and fair growth. In our view, growth is inextricably linked to productive reconstruction. It is the condensation of a comprehensive political proposal on society's collective prosperity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Colleague, we've reached seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u148	Just a moment more, Mr President, and I thank you for your tolerance. I will close with an issue which, in my opinion, is very critical. The government of SYRIZA, using, if you like, the very great effort made by the Greek people over the last decade, has managed to achieve significant measures to alleviate public debt. These measures create a clear corridor for the next decade. A corridor in which we do not have the bourgeoisie, we do not have the great burden of the arrogant public debt service we had in the past. This corridor, however, is timelylyly defined and delimited. So, in our view, this government's development policy is twice as dangerous, not only because of the ideas I referred to earlier, but precisely because it does not exploit, but is backwards in relation to this clean corridor that we have in front of us. In these ten years we must rebuild the Greek economy on its feet. In these ten years there must be a productive reconstruction in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Haritsis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u150	So a very big opportunity is being lost, too, with this bill. You have no right to waste the efforts of the Greek people in this way. You will find us radically across the street, as you will find the majority of the Greek citizens who want their sacrifices to catch a place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, look at the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u152	It's become a mistake. The list is the one we have here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u153	We won't have time to talk, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u154	Wait a minute. We continue with Mr. Arvanitidis from the Change Movement, then Mr. Davakis from New Democracy, then Mr. Levanios for a minute and then Mrs. Kerameos. Mr Arvanitides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, with reference to this bill, admitted that it is not a development law and that the development law is now being prepared by the Government and will present us with the New Democracy's view on these matters and that today's bill is a bill that unblocks issues. I think that from "Investing in Greece" we must change the title and make it "I live in Greece", because there is no question that the government does not interfere with today's bill. In this new development bill we will see how the New Democracy perceives growth and investment in Greece. In my opinion, it is very clear that the new government's message that all sorts of regulations on the labour market, business, energy will make it the market, that the state must be restricted because it is ineffective. From the ideological strangles of SYRIZA we pass on to the ideological rigidities of the New Democracy. There is no complete proposal and development strategy. You do not treat actual market distortions or oligopolises to facilitate competition and small and medium-sized enterprises. So waiting for the real development bill, you are ambitious to achieve a 2.8% growth in 2020, according to the budget, with a target that you had 4% and there are all these estimates from those who are watching the Greek economy that 2.8% is a very difficult target. In this bill, Minister, you are also changing the law on the final state which you have just voted for two months ago as a full government, and I predict that, unfortunately, the arrangements you bring to many issues in this bill will have to change them very quickly. Minister, I mentioned in committee the need for a premium for companies that implement best environmental and sustainable practices with additional incentives and facilities or even a head start in their integration into investment laws. That is not what we see in the bill. You told me that the first authorisation you signed was to strengthen a company by Mr. Drasakis' investment law. I'm over it because I think you've been smart enough to tell me. Greece needs a much more brave framework of green development policy to catch the goals that your own government has just announced from the mouth of the Prime Minister. It is not enough to do what has been done so far. I am waiting for your next bill in which you will bring specific provisions and incentives to finance resilient investments in climate change and to take measures to adapt to it and not to derogations from the last minute, as you do for special design buildings, such as Article 205. In the Change Movement, after all, we are proposing the issue of better adapting the economy and society to the effects of climate change through a new green growth and regeneration contract for the country. We have also tabled an amendment to the contracts for the extraction of hydrocarbons, and we hope that you will accept it. The amendment provides - firstly - for the financing of postgraduate programmes in the energy economy and environmental protection and, secondly, for the performance of 3.5% of public revenue from rents and production units in the National Fund for a fair transition to the lignite regions of the country. I hope you accept it, and if you don't, you need to explain why you're going to make this choice. We have therefore tabled an amendment on excessive charges for banks. In a few moments, Mr. Ministers, the way we go, whoever goes outside of the bank will just be charged because he went outside. I would also like to refer to the provisions concerning business parks, with which you remove the powers and resources of the municipalities. There was already a regulation that provided for the possibility of co-operating the municipalities in the resident regions for the establishments. There, therefore, some municipalities provided services and some municipalities were unable to provide services. The new provisions, however, that you bring to bear on local government and, in particular, in Thessaloniki, will cause particular problems. I honestly do not understand why you are bringing this iso-demand provision and you are not giving the power to the co-legislative Ministries of Home Affairs and Development, to the EICs, to the municipalities and to the established businesses to examine on a case-by-case basis what each municipality provides, at the cost, what remuneration, and if there is no agreement, to pass to the next solution. Once again, you show your understanding, which is clearly against self-government, that causes a loss of revenue to the municipalities and you get them responsibilities. While there is the experience of what our problems are spatially in the different regions of the country are for business parks, while from the failures we have and the crisis we have licensed industrial spaces everywhere in the country, instead of regulating, you are also pointing to issues that are minor. For example, is the treatment of stray animals and garbage in industrial areas a priority? Managing these private areas is a priority? We need proposals based on quantitative and qualitative data on the possibility for business parks to develop sustainable development and entrepreneurship-enhancing activities. If this were to be the case, if you had such predictions, then we could talk about a bill - cut-off with a benefit both locally and at national level. All of this was known to you, gentlemen of the government, and especially to the relevant ministries of development and investment. You were even placed in the study under way in the case of the business park of Kalochori in Thessaloniki. It is wrong to take what is generally true in some areas such as Oinofytas and to try to copy them in other areas, such as Kalochori. You, the Ministry, in cooperation with local government, had to carry out research and studies on a case-by-case basis for each region. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by noticing that there are no specific studies, you do not have a plan for entrepreneurship and business parks in Greece, so we are still losing an opportunity, but the country cannot afford any more lost opportunities. I am therefore voting against this bill and I expect you to have a real development law that the country needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr Arvanitides, for keeping time. Mr. Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been cleared for about three to four months, the government has been carrying out coordinates, structured, housewives, I would say, what it has committed itself to the Greek people in order to gain their trust. In other words, it implements its programme, which is particularly apparent in this specific legislative initiative where I believe a wretch is achieved. Sixteen ministries, which lead to a set of provisions, as shown by the bill, are coordinated and three important objectives are achieved. There are specific obstacles that have so far been a brake on any development initiative, problems are corrected by a fragmented legislation of the past because of the great problem of polynomialism and a series of small but substantial reforms that change the business environment and give a hand to both newly-born businesses and others that have been facing serious economic problems. I have listened carefully to the objections of the officers of the Officerate, who - I am sorry to say this - are micropsy - often the bad mother-in-laws without any reason - but also a refusal to understand the living reality that the Greek people, regardless of political or party positions, are seeking in this place. Mrs Bakoyannis told you earlier that in the past, when you were a government, when she was responsible for development policy on the part of the opposition officer at the time, we have contributed and agreed to both the development bills that you have brought, which you do not do, you are not seeking. General Makrigiannis was saying, and in his memoirs and always, that this country we all have it together. It is something that you on the left, because of the divisive souls that distinguish you and which are the basis of your ideology, you do not want to believe and accept. I repeat, however, that we all have this country together, and if this place, its people, all of us who represent him, we will do well and say that we are worthy of the quality that he trusted us with. It is not negligible, however, that all the estimates for this bill, including from the Bank of Greece, which says there will be an increase in real GDP by 5%, but also an increase in investment by 10%, show that they are in the right direction. A fundamental reform that is also being introduced with this bill - and I wanted to stand on it - is the Single Digital Charter. With the Single Digital Map any citizen will be able to directly via the Internet to have a simple, valid, economic, cheap, practically free information on issues, such as existing land uses, forest maps, for which your policy has, at least to me and my place in Laconia, traumatic impressions, experiences and much more. Also, the establishment of the Directorate-General for Government Security is very important, because I believe that it is not meant to go ahead with the development of the digital state and its services without there being a parallel development and strengthening of the framework of cybersecurity. Moreover, as far as the primary sector is concerned - I come from a rural prefecture and, like most of my colleagues, I have specific experience in it - meanings such as precision agriculture, geographical information systems, production sensors, variable fertilisation, issues that will strengthen primary production, must be part of our everyday life, which is made up and which is seen on the pages of this bill. I believe that a prefecture such as my place of Laconia, beyond this particular development bill, which is reflected in the consciousness of all colleagues - because the regions that we represent are the regions - is an important case of a development model. I believe that this draft law is inclined in this direction, a direction that will give our country, our people, and will finally take it out of the long economic and social crisis that exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too. Mr. Kavadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a bill which shapes the prospects for the growth of the Greek economy for the coming years, the micro-psympathy is, unfortunately, greater than the Anti-Civilization. There is no luxury, however, to get locked up in conflicts and practices of other times when the country has to go forward, to get rid of the burdens they want to keep it trapped in yesterday. The bill has a clear target, strengthen investment and economic activity, remove obstacles and make Greece a friendly and attractive country for investment. All this leads to new jobs, to an increase in GDP and to the creation of additional financial space, to lead to a greater reduction in taxes and to social policies. The Single Digital Charter is a major innovation and forms the spatial framework for business activity. Each investor will know which uses and what activities are allowed in each region to access data, such as construction conditions and the spatial context. The rules of the game will be stable and will not be changed. The licensing process is simplified to the maximum extent by interventions, such as the transition to a digital state that includes the National Broadband Plan, the National Simplification Programme of Procedures, the fight against bureaucracy, the creation of a Written Observatory, the codification of administrative procedures and documents and the design of the Single Digital Portal of Public Administration. Simplification of licensing procedures shall also be reflected in practical matters such as environmental authorisations. It also extends to speeding up the evaluation procedures for investment projects, which will now involve the private sector, but without any reductions in the issues of legality and transparency. Why does this arrangement matter? Because it is quite simple, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment there are two and a half thousand lake-projects, since there is no evaluation from the existing bureaucratic framework. It is also of particular importance that in the event of a delay in the authorisation procedure or an opinion for an investment project, and after the deadline of forty-five calendar days laid down in existing legislation has expired, the Minister of Development should approve or reject the application submitted, after the General Secretariat of Strategic and Private Investments has made such a recommendation. Most of all, however, it provides for penalties for those who delay the proceedings, so that the deadline of forty-five calendar days is not respected. Ladies and gentlemen, for the regional development of the country it is very important that the broadening of the category of investments that can be characterised as strategies and activities that can be supported by development programmes is very important. The categories are widened and the authorisation procedure for strategic investment is accelerated. It is good that the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, understands the need to reduce the thresholds above which an investment strategy may be considered. I have tabled a proposal, both to the Minister and to the Committee on Production and Trade, to reduce the limit to qualify as an investment, from the 100 million to 40 million - which has been done - but also to create seventy-five jobs instead of a hundred twenty, which the Minister needs to see before. Minister, you will have to look at this very carefully, as it concerns a whole series of important investments throughout Greece. This will open the way to the realisation of investments, such as the Marina in Vlychos, Lefkada, an investment that has not only a local or regional dimension, but is linked to the development of maritime tourism. Mostly, however, it will be a lever of economic and tourist development for Lefkada. I would also like to point out two issues that need to be resolved and linked to speeding up the implementation of investment projects. It is preferable to precede the approval of the Interministerial Act to qualify for an investment as a strategy and then follow the licensing process and the award process. In this way, an investment is becoming more attractive and, not like the current framework, which first provides for the choice of an investor, then the designation of the investment as a strategy and then follow the licensing process. The Fast track process should also be extended for strategic investments, not only private but public property, when part of a single investment. I can give you the example of Marina in Vlychos, which will be provided by the State Building Agency in one part and another on another on a municipal basis. With today's data this investment will not be possible. I would also like to refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Interior for FVO, which has a positive print and gives a solution to an explosive problem related to the management of waste. I am pleased that the Ministry of Interior has responded directly to an existing problem that I had urgently raised through contacts and discussions with the Minister. I am referring to the possibility for the municipalities to choose their participation in a neighbouring region.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Kavada, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u161	I shall conclude, Mr President. In particular, for island municipalities such as Lefkada, it is a very positive development, as it provides a way out of the problem of waste management, while at the same time encouraging future cooperation between neighbouring municipalities, which can share responsibility and provide a sustainable solution to waste management. Consider that there are island municipalities that have not yet completed a waste treatment plant and have a serious problem with the so-called 'intermediate management' before this stage. This amendment therefore enables these municipalities to participate in FITDs with a municipality of a neighbouring region, in a spirit of parity and cooperation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Kavvada, you've reached seven and a half minutes. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u163	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, those who criticise the critical bill only show that they have not understood what has happened in the country in recent years. None of these objections made by the Civic Opposition meets the country's needs, because the country's needs are different. They are linked to strong growth for everyone, to new jobs and to an increase in the incomes of every citizen. Growth does not go hand in hand with ideas and practices of the past. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is a given fact that the majority of the Greek people support the core of the development bill, because it has realised that the country must move forward. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Friend now has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President, for understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fragmentation of the arrangements, the bill is directed. It suggests returning to the productive model that led the country to the crisis. It insists on further compressing labour costs and attacking labour, public goods and the environment. It follows on from the easy economic growth rather than the growth that should aim for high-value products, with priority for knowledge and innovation and thus the creation of decent and high-level jobs. It is also a bill giving gifts to business interests, especially in the sensitive information sector, where the nominalisation of shares is abolished. I would expect a reaction from former Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis and the President of the Republic, who had fought as we remembered against the 'pimps'. In this context, where everything is commodity, labour rights, the environment, information, everything appears as a commodity, nothing as a right, in this environment of merchandise everything is planted by provisions that also provide for education. The fact that provisions on education go into an unrelated bill, which seems first and foremost to be a practice of maladministration, if we look at the government's side, they are good legislation, since they are all subject to market ideology. Article 166 of the bill abolishes, before they even have been tested, the free access departments for the present year's candidates, who could only be introduced into schools with the high school dismissal. Freedom of access was aimed at reducing the stress of pupils, strengthening regional institutions, reducing family spending on education and pedagogical upgrading of high school. The Government abolishes that possibility by stating the misleading argument that the provision allegedly categorizes university schools. However, let it look at the prospect of categorising schools into its competition policy among universities, in the direction it says, linking evaluation to part of state funding. This is a central idea of the neoliberal model of education, according to which education produces products and provides education services, not education. As is the case in other sectors of the economy, quality assessments are quantified. Everything is rated and weighed, even the dreams and effort of young people. The examinations under Article 168 shall also be re-examined in experimental schools. The enthusiasts of competitive excellence cannot tolerate the real nature of experimental schools, which are not based on the competition of pupils, but are incubators for the continuous renewal and enrichment of the educational process. With articles on the recognition of professional qualifications or the professional equivalence of college degrees, the Ministry of Education seems to be in a hurry and does not allow the dynamics of the new system to be expressed, even with transitional effect. This haste isn't random. It is the period of registration in private colleges and the government is pushing customers there, abolishing public education structures. The amendment extends the number of countries concerned by vocational equivalence. So far it has been the European Union. Now, under the pretext of Brexit, the regulation is also being opened in the United States of America, not Harvard, but at the various low-level private colleges they want to export. Trading again. And who do they claim they're going to put in order? The ones who caused the infamousness and chaos. From 2016 to 2018, on our own days, we examined dossiers and gave professional equivalence to four thousand cases, while only a thousand five hundred were given in the previous three years. Of course, there were problems in the way and pace of recognitions, but that was what we wanted to do with the regulation that you do not allow it to be implemented. For postgraduate students, you are about to release the fees of the LPIS members. Obviously, it is something that interested parties like, even though large universities, such as the Polytechnics, Panteion, the Ioanninas and a multitude of university programmes in all the IOIs, were free of charge and we do not provide a special reward for teachers. Question: Where will the increase in the budgets of postgraduate studies be covered? The Report of the General Accounting Office is clear: The liberalisation of the remuneration of EPAs will be dealt with by the State budget or by the budgets of the bodies, as appropriate. Given that there is no provision for the regular financing of universities through the budget, the only solution that remains is the evacuation of tuition fees. The transfer of the General Secretariat of Research and Development to the Ministry of Development confirms the Government's hard-working perception that research is a therapist of the economy. The rename of successful institutions attempts to change the composition of its institutions, another case of ruthless partyization. It is natural that such arrangements cause the responses of the research community. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is making positive arrangements for education, with the revival of memorandum arrangements in mind. We'll see them soon afterwards. Currently, it turns out to be unprepared to exploit the possibilities we have given it for the proper functioning of the schools. It succeeded in the unthinkable, to have thousands of vacancies in schools, despite the credit record, thirty - four thousand for substitutes we had prepared. And of course, it postpones the necessary permanent appointments, four and a half thousand for special treatment - the recruitment process should have been completed - and ten thousand for general education. All of this will be discussed in the dialogue that is necessary, first of all, in its natural space, which is here, in the Committee on Cultural Affairs, with the participation of political and social actors. Dialogue should have as the sole prerequisite the strengthening of public education. The mobilisations of young people, which are now returning to the forefront, are a hopeful treaty, incentives for education, work and the environment, that is to say, sustainable development that offers them a remarkable future and a feeling that they do not have a surplus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Philly. Ladies and gentlemen, the roll-call vote from the Change Movement has already been tabled. I mention it so you know. Mr Tsakiris will now take the floor, then Mr Levanios and Mrs Kerameos will then. Mr. Chakiri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make two clarifications. Firstly, with regard to mining, I would like to clarify - and because my profession is metallurgical - that the only way to exploit mineral wealth, to which we all aim, is mining. There's no one else. So the mining activity is what we need to see. But there is also the mining code, which sets the limits and specifications of mining activity. Greece's mining code is quite modern. It follows all European standards and directives. So I don't think there's gonna be anything, someone's gonna come in, make a exploitation, do the rehabilitation or not take the security measures provided for.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u168	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u169	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u170	Please. Minister, make your points so we can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u171	That is the first point. A second clarification of what Mr Drasakis said about financial products: it is not this law. Financial products for small and medium-sized enterprises are expelled from the Development Bank. When we took over, some were in the market, some were in the planning phase, which will soon come out of the market. We are also planning a new plan to support what we need, especially in terms of access to capital, small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u172	Thank you. Mr Levanie, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. In Amendment No 67, and number 17, which was tabled last night, which is in the bill under discussion, I should like to mention two things, the most important ones. I would also like to inform you that the Minister, Mr Theodorikos, will be here shortly to speak about the main body of provisions and other provisions on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u174	Will you testify another one, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u175	From us as an internal ministry, no. So the first issue that is being regulated is for central self-resources. Indeed, a number of criteria, which were in the right direction, have been amended in the 'Classhen'. But at the moment they are practically inapplicable and related to the length of irrigation networks. However, data are not yet available. Neither ELSTAT nor the Ministry of the Environment have it all together. We're working on it to pack it up. So these provisions are suspended and the previous ones are returned. There is one provision, which states that some of the costs incurred by the collective bodies of self-government are considered lawful in terms of travel costs, nights, conferences and travel, which is perfectly reasonable given that we are talking about an institution, which represents mayors from all over Greece. There's a lot of conferences going on. There were budgetary constraints. And there was a document at some point of the Interior Minister in March 2016, who said that it did not belong to the general government body. So both the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece and the regional associations of municipalities proceeded with some costs, without the formalities being complied with at that time, which were done for this purpose. With regard to the other articles in the amendment: There is an article, which speaks of the divided municipalities. It's the fourth time we've had an arrangement. You realize that it was not an easy project. We are constantly finding problems, obstacles, which we have to deal with, so that there is no problem in the smooth operation of the municipalities, and in particular in the preparation of budgets from 1-1-2020. There is an article about the FODs, which enables some municipalities to join and join FODs in a neighbouring region, since it is in their own interests and with the relevant decisions. The position of Vice-President at the National Civil Service Centre is also established. In conclusion, I will tell you that 40 million has been secured for late payments by judgement by the municipalities, which is very important. Those who know from self-government know that there are too many municipalities, who on a daily basis are almost in the face of final judicial decisions, which creates a great debt and a well-established budget, because of the well-known reduction in resources. So we'll give these municipalities a breath to cover a large part of the final decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our design from the day we started the work to upgrade education is on two lines: First Axis: Setting up urgent issues, given the start of the new school and academic year, and at the same time addressing a number of issues and difficulties that have arisen from previous leadership choices. Second Axis: Preparation, processes and work for the deposit of a comprehensive legislative framework for primary, secondary, tertiary and technical vocational education. In fact, in the next few days there is already a dialogue with the parties, first of all on higher education, but also on wider issues, which fall within our competence. And we look forward to a sincere, substantial and constructive dialogue and a culture of consensus. In the provisions that we have tabled: I repeat that we are introducing in this bill certain limited provisions of an urgent nature to be discussed and voted on in the House. Order 1 : We give universities greater freedom and autonomy for postgraduate studies programmes. As part of our overall policy towards greater freedom and autonomy for universities, we have largely abolished the super-regulatory framework introduced in the previous period and created a series of nuisances. I will give you one example: why should it be left to the state to stipulate that teachers in postgraduate programmes should teach a postgraduate for free so that they can teach another one? Or why should the state define the fees of teachers in postgraduate? Let all this be decided freely within the framework of his responsibilities. We simplify procedures for the management of postgraduate programmes and reduce the administrative burden on universities. Thus, we strengthen the institutions' self-interest, aiming at attracting more renowned scientists and more students, as well as promoting and facilitating research and teaching. The broader regulatory framework of postgraduate studies programmes will be included in the draft law on the overall revision of higher education, which will be submitted in the coming months. Secondly, we are gradually reintroducing normality in standards and experimental schools until the overall regulation for their further strengthening. Ladies and gentlemen, the substantial support for pilot and experimental schools along with the general upgrading of our public schools is our high priority. We seek not only to restore their function and place in our educational system but also to strengthen them further. Unfortunately - and I stress it - we have received the standards and experimental schools in a tragic state. I would like to ask the President-in-Office whether he would like to make a statement to the effect that he is not prepared to take part in this debate. For example, the previous government had left the standards and experimental schools without scientific supervisory boards, i.e. without those bodies, which actually direct the action of each standard and experimental school. Standards and experimental schools without scientific councils cannot function in substance as standards and experimental schools. We are therefore predicting their establishment and strengthening the responsibilities of the Scientific Committee of Standards and Experimental Schools. We support the institution of the teams of pilot and experimental schools, a particular element of these schools, and we also enable pupils to choose groups in other models and experimental schools to facilitate them. Thirdly, we provide choices and flexibility for the introduction of old graduates in higher education. The regulation we are bringing to debate and vote gives the opportunity to all the old graduates, i.e. those who graduated until the school year 2018-2019, who wish to participate in the upcoming pan-Hellenic examinations, to choose either to examine under the terms and conditions that will apply in that year 2019-2020 or under the conditions that applied last year, the year 2018-2019. They'll have the choice. Fourth point. We remove the separation between free and non-access parts. Ladies and gentlemen, the same and uniform approach to all higher education departments is laid down in the regulation to be adopted. We therefore propose that this unjustified classification should be lifted between free access and import sections following examinations, which effectively classified the sections into two categories, high prestige and low prestige sections. We, ladies and gentlemen, value all university departments in the country and, at the same time, create the same clear and clear framework for all students. Partition selection cannot be made as another lucky game, students enter the process to guess in advance, which sections will be of low demand and therefore without examinations. We want the students to choose consciously the department that they think fits them better. Fifth setup. We are repeating something that existed until May 2019, if I am not mistaken, until a few months ago and which the SYRIZA government had abolished at random a few months before the elections. It is to be wondered why he left this arrangement for four years which he strongly denounces. But he didn't do anything for her four years, he did a few months before the election. We are reintroducing the professional equivalence of higher education qualifications in Member States of the European Union and third countries. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, we are introducing a change that will be tabled with these legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u178	I would ask that they be distributed. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u179	Occupational equivalence will be judged by the state, by the ATEEN, while professional qualifications will be judged by the professional associations, something I understand and the MPs of counter-population agree with. Because I have heard some colleagues talking about an automated procedure, it is not accurate. The procedure shall not be automated, arrangements shall be made for evaluation and, where appropriate, exercise or examination in order to identify qualifications or equivalence. We are speeding up the whole process. The long delays identified in the operation of the GAAP kept thousands of graduates blocked and raised directly issues of the compatibility of Greek law with the obligations arising from the Member States under Union law. Ladies and gentlemen - and I will end - we are bringing a number of regulations that rationalise procedures at all three levels of education, and they are gradually tracking a number of integrated reforms. The education provided, ladies and gentlemen, must be strengthened in our country, step by step - step, provision, energy - we will upgrade education in our country and we will build a more free school and a more autonomous and modern university. And in order to achieve this, we will pursue the consensus of all of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has asked for the floor. If I may, Mr Loverdos, the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Constantine Franco-Giannis, has asked for the floor for five minutes because he has to leave later. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece has also asked for the floor, I say it to be informed. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Konstantinos Frangoyannis, for five minutes. Mr. Frangoyannis, please be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the ongoing reform of international economic relations and the strengthening of the country's extroversion was clearly marked by the new architecture of the government's structure. Now that the country's extroverted economic development in the crucial foreign policy sector is gaining new advantages and synergies for the development of which and the achievement of the aim of multiplier effect require a substantial adaptation of the delivery bodies to the new data and the challenges of this project. This draft law attempts to transform the "Greek Investment Company and Foreign Trade", "ENTERPRISE GREECE" into an extroversion, modern and dynamic corporate structure that will contribute to the economic and social development of the country. ENTERPRISE GREECE is the main vehicle of the Greek state, both to attract direct investment and to promote Greek exports. With organisational and structural changes in the context of its operation, institutional safeguards and appropriate tools are provided to enable the body to best support Greek and foreign enterprises, to upgrade the country's international economic position and to promote sustainable development, in line with good practice and international standards. With the changes made to the company’s way of operating this draft law, it will now be able to: Firstly, it should contribute to the development of a national strategic extroversion plan and the country's architectural action plan for the country's international image, national brand, providing the necessary information and suggestions to the General Secretariat of International Economic Relations and Extroversion of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Secondly, to support Greek investment in foreign markets, the development of international trade, and to implement export support techniques, with partnership and participation in joint extroversion actions. Thirdly, to mobilise investors and inform them of the institutional, legislative, fiscal and financial framework governing investment in Greece and to promote foreign markets the conditions of the business environment and investment opportunities in Greece. Fourthly, undertake monitoring, study, elaboration and suggestion of studies, proposals, measures, programmes and actions to promote, strengthen and support exports, improve competitiveness, remove the export resistance and attract investment. Thus, taking into account the needs of the real economy, a non-reversible board is established to provide advisory support for ENTERPRISE GREECE with strong participation by collective market operators, business associations and experts. In this way, it actively contributes to the upgrading of the investment climate, both in international markets and in the Greek real economy. Under the supervision and coordination of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the company, while fully maintaining its autonomy, is further upgraded and is the key tool for the implementation of the national strategy of extrovert, while ENTERPRISE GREECE, through the office of economic and commercial affairs to the Greek diplomatic authorities abroad, is being resilient internationally helping to implement its actions. In this context, the "Greek Investment Company and Foreign Trade" is a special case of an entity, which operates for the sake of the public interest, which, due to the nature of its completely outdated mission, is mainly active abroad, taking action...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u182	Is it now founded or has it been founded and you change it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u183	ENTERPRISE GREECE? There is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Loverdo, ask later when you get the floor. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u185	The planned changes strengthen the role of the company in order not to fall short of the corresponding entrepreneurship and extroversion support bodies of other European Union countries in the standards of corresponding European good practice in the field of extroversion. In order to ensure the efficient and uninterrupted functioning of the Hellenic Investment Company and Foreign Trade SA, the adaptation to the above data and requirements of international practice, is pursued in this Article in the standards of entities whose function is not in flexibilities, the adoption of specific forecasts, the lifting of restrictions that do not meet the operational and operational requirements of the entity and the performance of the necessary flexibility. In particular, it provides for the creation of a specific legal framework of operation within the general provisions of the public and wider public sector, always in accordance with European legislation and the common values set out therein. In particular, we have to accept, assimilate and incorporate effectively the required structural and operational areas, and that is why it is crucial to provide the institutional tools on the one hand to the body and, on the other hand, to implement the reforms in a coordinated framework for managing this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Loverdos has the floor and then Mr. Loverdos has been asked for the floor by the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Pafilis. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will make a comment on the two previous ministers, the previous Minister for Education and the previous State Secretary for Foreign Affairs. For the Minister of Education, I should like to point out that so far, for three or four months, he has had a legislative initiative with amendments. When he undertakes such a critical ministry with millions of managers who go to this ministry and who are permanently dissatisfied, because it is a large scale of the problems that the Ministry of Education has, he has to make comprehensive legislative interventions. Mrs. Kerameau's taking it backwards. I would like to remind her, from the Step forward, that my predecessor and my predecessor, who legislated by means of amendments, was ultimately condemned for being present at the Ministry of Education, even though he had excellent intentions, in total failure. This Ministry is not appropriate for interventions at this level. Mr President, I hope that the Bureau will make such an adjustment of time by continuing tomorrow, perhaps late in the evening, so that everyone can speak from the list of speakers. Mrs Kefalidou, who will refer to education, is one of the last on the list. We do not want to deprive her of her own intervention. He has made a statement in advance that he wants to speak. To the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, who made a reference to a merger, if I understood well, of existing companies, I would like to say that before any institutional intervention at this level the government has to make an account of how these companies and councils worked, because in the economic and development area for decades the legal persons founded have not been successful. So this heavyly negative legacy under all governments has to be a driver. That is why I would expect, on the part of a ministry, a merger to make the National Representation land what these companies have been doing so far. Ladies and gentlemen, in its own right, without us parties of today's or previous Opposition to take initiatives, a debate was opened on the first half of 2015. Because we are talking about growth and numbers, in the first half of 2015 it is working. But today's opposition, apart from the officer, that is to say us or another party, or the current government, did not open the debate. Open up from SYRIZA, from his executives. I take this opportunity to say that in the first half of 2015 we have proposed dozens of times - and Mrs Gennamas has taken this initiative - to be assessed through the establishment of a relevant committee of inquiry. We can't go on like this, with half the time from here and when. Mr Georgiadis, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the tripartite of the country's main problems listens to the following title: development, migration and security. These are the three big issues facing Greeks and Greeks. Wherever you go, you'll hear from any citizen who talks to you about any of these things. I obviously do not remove foreign policy issues, I am talking about the rest. There are already clouds on the horizon of the Greek economy. I saw an IMF report on the expected revenues from 2020. It doesn't suit much the government's calculations. Negative interest rates on lending - I have pointed out from the Step of the House - are positive when it comes to an economy that could not be borrowed, but we see in the Netherlands the first sector that was hit by negative interest rates being pensions. The growth rates foreseen for 2020 at 2.8% are not the growth rates that the Greek economy needs, which must be so shocking that we can cope with the primary surpluses that Greece has committed from the previous government to produce. In the day-to-day market - and a free professional speaks to you - the climate of euphoria in the first few months gives his place to restraint, because the normal problems are now beginning, which have nothing to do with market movement as a climate, but with the movement of the real economy. So one expects a government to take the first essential, important measures in the field of development. Where do these measures come from? I agree with the Ministry of Development, resulting from the hit, the smashing of red tape. Ladies and gentlemen, can I give you an example of an attempt to reduce bureaucracy from this draft law? Article 4 reduces deadlines. That's right. So what? Every time the law introduces, even when it is mentioned as exclusive, the administration takes it as an indication. Who are you kidding? It's been all these years. We are having a debate on the revision of the Constitution. We say from the previous House that there must be regulation in the Constitution which states that when the legislature determines a date, a time limit as exclusive, it means it. That's right now, you're saying that the many days are getting less. Good. The administration will tell you: I didn't have time. The caselaw will then come to the point that the time limits laid down by the laws, even when the laws stipulate that the dates, those deadlines are exclusive, are not indicative and that the public administration is in power. How are they treating this? I leave the fact that the change in deadlines concerns two - three cases, I do not stand there, I go deeper. It would have been very simple if we had made this constitutional change, but we haven't. So there is nothing to do with these provisions and I feel, with the experience I have, that we are being fooled by the government in this matter. Secondly, any entrepreneur who asks and invokes a survey of the newspaper 'Kathemerini' months ago, in which they spoke twenty businessmen recorded between the conditions of growth, firstly, the reduction of bureaucracy and the stable fiscal environment. For the second I don't have a picture, I can't criticize it without knowing. But for the first time I have. The establishment of the state of staff was a pharmaco-legislative initiative in terms of reducing bureaucracy. I said it then, I don't repeat it. I cannot, however, stress that, in this draft law, you are making some thirty-six changes to the law on the final state that you brought two months ago and I have the changes here. Some are of a regional nature, but some are also at the heart of this legislative initiative. Six general secretariats and procedures for reducing bureaucracy are inconsistent with the proposal itself. He wants the Minister for Development here to reduce the bureaucracy you've loaded him and he's trying to find a way out with his own individual interventions if he's done it. However, the contradiction is institutional. Legislation in two months is changing your law. The torso of the problem you've created remains. Thirdly, because only with areas can I speak. Here, you have brought a draft law, as I said yesterday, entitled 'What do I know if I am not wrong'. So what do you know if you're not cheating? I say: is it possible in an economic environment, of course, for new businesses to benefit? Definitely agreeable. What man would say otherwise? Older people? Are you going to change the bankruptcy law? When Mr. Kontonis made the change four years ago, I told him - because I happen to be a little close to the subject, not very much, because it is a difficult legal issue for the overall issue of the bankruptcy - that you do not give a second chance to the poor. The poor are financially dead. If in this decade of crisis you don't look at those who went bankrupt if they want to come back, who can't even issue a service note, then what kind of intervention are you doing in the field of development? Just a point? But I've proved to you, using one, that it's not effective. It's circumstantial to some extent. In Heritage Law and Succession in businesses where there is a problem, will you intervene? In a series of bureaucratic problems here, which relate to ordinary citizens, do you have a picture of the market to intervene? I see an intervention now that I cannot assess. I don't accidentally repeat that I'm an active lawyer. I have a picture of what it means. The amendment by the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, how will we assess it? He's got some negative consequences for someone who didn't volunteer in a competitive process, if I understand. What about competition? In any case, we want the Minister to tell us a few words. So I'm very sorry, without intervention in bureaucracy, the Observatory is not interested. I can also share the criticism that it is another bureaucratic structure. It'll prove. I point it out as a risk. But when you don't have subsectors and secondly, you don't have a picture of administration and case law, you can't interfere with development. I'm so sorry. We, ladies and gentlemen, are obliged to see our development as the Finnish. We didn't discover any oil. We didn't discover gas, to have it tomorrow morning in front of us, so that we could strengthen the economy and growth to the citizen. This is where we have to operate, without capital transfers. Economics that will universally rely on capital transfers is a failed economy. Here we need to see what we have to do. We do not see it, apart from the individual positive points that our rapporteur, Mr Katrinis, has raised. Now, in the new areas, I read about the problems that exist in dozens of untapped ports. I have repeatedly criticised all the ministers and our own as a member of the Ministerial Council on the marina issue. The waterplanes mentioned by the Minister for Development, the social economy - I am changing a little sector - for which the ESDP programmes have been frozen, the COMPAs, which were under way by the previous government, and which you have frozen, have omitted. Will you do it? I did not understand from the two-day debate here that in discussing development we are discussing on conditions relating to what is happening in people's daily lives. And to close, I made an intervention yesterday. One of the most ruthless Presidents, Mr Constantinople, Mr President, with regard to the enlargement of the process, after you, is Mr Vitsas. So yesterday I was given the floor to make an intervention when the Minister for Labour spoke. I told him he's inherited a bomb in insurance. While struggling for revenue, there is a complete inability for free professionals to regulate their debts today. The previous government gave them, as well as this, the hundred and twenty instalments. I don't know what happened with the deadline. It increased by a month, I don't know, I don't remember. In any case, people go to regulate their debts and the funds cannot tell them what they are owed. Health workers have a 95% problem. How do you get money? An entire Ministerial Council comes here and smiles. It's okay. As if, ladies and gentlemen, it was enough for a government change to solve our problems. Then we could do ten a year to solve everything. It's not like that. And when you don't record the problems you've received, you've soon created them yourself. And I made an intervention, Mr President, and I said to him: what about the debt arrangements for the inability to determine how much debt is? What will happen to the one who wants to be informed today, because he is a professional and has obligations and everything he puts as today's debt goes to the bin of past debts. What about this? Is there an answer? He went to answer that question, but the President told him to leave it for another time and the matter was lost. But I'll bring it back all the time. This is the fourth time I have said so in plenary. Either the government will give a solution in this year or in 2020 the problems of the recent past. And you know one of those things? In its ‘software’ SYRIZA has determined that the contributions paid from the cash year 2020 will not be calculated as non-taxable income. You will pay and be regarded as taxable income to pay the amount of the contribution. Listen, we're reading. We've become trying to grapple government plans in the financial parts of the newspapers. We hear that this will change. Will it change? Yesterday the Minister for Labour spoke of this important issue for half an hour. It is a pretext that we cannot go any further. When we are specifically talking about growth, or are clear, and we show on the market that we know what we say or better not to talk and not to take legislative initiatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. I should like to inform you that a request for a roll-call vote has also been tabled by the Communist Party of Greece. Also, Efstathos Konstantinides, MP of Kozanis, seeks permission from absence from 25-10-2019 to 27-10-2019 in order to go to Cyprus for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u189	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u190	Until now, both our rapporteur and the Members of the Communist Party of Greece who have been placed, have been affected by most sides and have revealed what is behind this bill entitled "Investing in Greece". Admittedly, I don't know if a bill has ever happened before to have such a title. Usually, the bills refer to development, to all of it anyway. But a bill entitled "Investing in Greece" rather a advertising spot. And if we want to translate this advertising spot, so people can understand what's going on, we could say what the spot says: monopolies, business clubs, capitalists locals and foreigners, multinationals, come on, come on! There's money in Greece. Where? You've been scratching the world all these years, you've pissed him off, and you're proud of the surpluses. We have natural wealth, and all the governments are selling him out, and you've put him in the cashier. We have comparative advantages to offer you, and at the same time, we also have an institutional framework in your measures. We have cheap, flexible workforce. Isn't that true? And yet, that's not enough. We are now taking other steps to stop the worker from claiming, crying his fate, waiting for the mother to fall out of heaven, to stop and, if not - we cannot - restrict these strikes that spoil the city's image, a city where three-quarters of the world lives in modern poverty and impoverishment. So we have new measures to be able to unobstructibly, so at least you think, inflate your wallets. We also have - the government says - a good story to tell the people that with everything we do, which Greece will go ahead, we will have sustainable growth, New Democracy, fair capitalist growth, SYRIZA, development with social features, KINAL - PASOK, where in this development the capitalists will increase their profits and the workers will gain. 0.9% of the world's population has 46% of the world's wealth, Mr Lebanon. This system is supported. And you're criticizing us. Well done, we're receptive and we don't have a problem. The government says something else, whether indirectly or directly, that in this fairy tale we serve in the world we also have allies who are the other parties, it is SYRIZA, it is KINAL - PASOK that others are also, of course, beyond the verbal individual differences that exist, and that is why there must be to alter the game, but they support this story of growth, capitalist development, because it is capitalist development, serving the people again as being beneficial to all and that Greece will go ahead. How will Greece go forward? Let's see this development leading up: The staffer 700 euros to live, 700,000, 000 euros, the shipowner. The young man 400 euros and 400,000 euros the banker. Youth 200 euros and 300 euros, 200,000 euros and 300,000 euros, industrialists and major traders. This is growth, are we lying? Isn't that right? How many of them hold the vast majority of wealth in Greece? A handful in front of the population. Such growth is also the fact that it's for everyone, let it go, we're not all the same. I told you the evidence, you cannot claim - and we are talking to the world now - that those who are zapluts get other privileges and those who live in poverty are increasingly condemned to live in worse life. This is capitalist growth which involves increasing profits and increasing profits, unless you square the cycle, coming out of the exploitation of workers, from intensification of labour, namely those producing wealth. And because you are putting questions here and making fun of the world as a whole for all of you defending this barbarity, we ask: Who produces wealth? If the workers stop working, is anything moving? Oh, no. If the employers stop, does it move? Everything's moving. Workers can all move them all, and today they are at a much higher level, and that is what is needed for the future society. Pictograms: What does it give, why does it give, this bill? A lot. The PPPs are converted into strategic public and private sector contracts. Why? To be able to get the motives, i.e. the money of the world. You've gathered them all these years to give them to businessmen to facilitate privatization. Who are they interested in? The capital or the workers? Bass and there's no capital? There is. Secondly, doubling the build-up factor for smaller investments. And when we say younger, we imagine it, it's not a small shop. What does it mean practically - all the world knows - to double the rate? Terrible money, privatization of controls. I say it as Nikos Karathanasopoulos said here and analyzed it in summary form. Privatisation of checks. Yannis treats, he drinks. They will build the investment footage, check whether they are implemented and move forward and live well and we will do better. So what the businessman says is true. We're running out of checks. Installation in Attica of medium-term nuisance operations. Question: Will you take them to the Caucasus? I don't think so. Kifisia? Psychic? No, of course not. Where are you going to take them? In popular districts to worsen even to downgrade the situation of the workers and degrade the people's districts. A decision - it says - by a simple majority - is abrogated - to privatise sectors. What areas? The profitees. What do you do, so people know? Waste equals gold, everyone knows it today. Big investment with big profits. Electric lighting, field new, bright and green and the green economy, the new field of profitability. What's the secret here for you referring to the businessman's risk? It's all secured because they're rewarding. The cosmopolitan and the businessman will pay for it all the time and they will increase them. Public investment programme that is part of development priorities. You tell us about the works that have to do with life literally - do we mean the lives and not the people in general - will you subsidise them? The anti-milling? The European Union does not consider them to be eligible. So is anti-nuclear. About anti-Semitism protection. How many schools and buildings haven't been checked? Are you going to give this to me? No, of course, you also incorporate them into the strategy as a whole in order to get them out of the way, as well as too many, such as the exception of nominal shares. Really, the reporter will make a statement where you've been, and the owner won't? How is that possible? About the evaluation of a research centre. Where? Of all legal persons. About postgraduate and free education. Hooray! You pay from primary school to postgraduate. Who's on it? Who can't pay? The poor popular layers as a whole. That's politics, not to tell all of it to capitalists. Money warm, because this is plus, to use genuine Greeks, that is to say, added to all the previous privileges that the SYRIZA Government gave, by reducing taxes, distributed profits, etc. And now New Democracy comes as a champion to go further. 5% tax on distributed net profits, because there are other profits hidden, 20% and 22% for the employee. Is that enough? That's not enough. Here comes the second package, the second one, which is essential, which is a great gift to all those who steal the sweat of the worker. Moreover, changes in labour law that are now attempting to give a graceful shot at the work rights and the trade union freedoms that have remained. Is it lightning in oath? Are there any people surprised that this would not happen? No, it's a continuation of the attack that's begun. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Not to go before, after 1990 when they started to remove one after another, but to go over the last few years. It is a continuation of the attack on rights, what remains, of all but, all the governments that have been ruling the country all this time and especially within the memoranda. You have all smashed your workers, melted them all these years and hurt none of the majors, nor even volunteered for voluntary taxation. Think, why don't you tell people to volunteer for tax? This is a continuation of previous policy, and I mention it: minimum wage regulation. You guys talking about free negotiations, who decides? The Minister. Law of the New Democracy that became New Democracy and SYRIZA, for it is not a matter of names. Names hide behind political parties. What was that? Does the Minister decide what? The needs of the workers? Losing? Oh, no. The competitiveness of the economy, i.e. the interests of big business and capital. Secondly, the right of associations of persons to conclude business contracts, the Trojan horse within the labour movement, which has been maintained and continues and which are even beyond the branches, undermine the principle of more favourable regulation. Who did this? All of you. New Republic, SYRIZA. Did you abolish it? Oh, no. Why? Didn't you know that it really undermines the trade union movement? And of course PASOK - KINAL. Thirdly, abrogation is now coming up for favor, the possibility for the worker to choose the most favourable contract. And the striker law "apartheid 50% plus 1" came, that you voted in strings and organs. Hooray! Mr. Georgiadis celebrated with SYRIZA and congratulated. And we ask you: Do you rule and rule with 50% plus 1? Aren't you ashamed to ask the worker to decide on the strike and you to rule a country with 23%? Democrat, huh? This is a democracy! Urban, I mean. That strike law. Every government, then, has so far moved on the same line. The line was: We support, pay the employee everything and the crisis etc. We break the worker and we support the big capital. And we are trying - that is what you have been doing all these years - as long as we can undermine the worker's ability to organise his struggle and claim. Now with this bill, what's coming? 68% did SYRIZA, congratulations very much, Mr Chakaloto. Don't ask for the floor on staff. And here comes 32%, which is even harder and where you saved it because you lost. Because that would be the way it would go, in its overwhelming majority, with individual differences, because they are requirements and you know them much better than we do in the negotiations that you are doing, you just don't tell the world. Now comes 32% to complete it faster and more ferociously, New Democracy. Firstly, I said this again, reversed the principle of more favourable regulation for the worker and cynically transformed into a more favourable regulation for business groups and employers. Operations overlap with the sectors. And will anyone tell us, but well, what do you have with the associations of faces? What do we have? Employers make them. They put two of their jackets there, I'll say it like that, submissive... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my denial, Mr President, as agreed in the Conference of Presidents. They make a union, sign a contract, which ultimately prevails in the sector, and what purpose does it have? To reduce the earnings of workers as a whole. They are leading themselves there to the vast majority of individuals' associations. Of course, the objective is more general, with all this context reducing the average wage to the lowest level. Who's asking for that? Entrepreneurs' organizations. They are asking for the average wage to be reduced and they say, unresponsively, that he is too great for Greece's data. The exceptions introduced for enterprises with financial problems and others, which are many and which are tens of thousands of workers, are a Spanish horse for the abolition of collective agreements. First question. Who will determine the criteria that an enterprise has financial problems? The Minister. Because most business is like that. You're saying it's just the ones that are in bankruptcy. Wrong. There are other and societal aspects and all the others, which are concerned with thousands of people, and there is the possibility that the Minister may arbitrarily define others. First of all, this has a problem of constitutionality, that is, it excludes tens of thousands of workers. And what are you doing? You put the false dilemma: “What do you prefer? Close or reduce wages.’; Yes, sir! Why are businesses closing down? Why are they going to Bulgaria and elsewhere? They don't have a national conscience? Of course they don't, they go for profits, so they go there. Are you barricaded? Oh, no. Why else do business close? We will talk in terms of play, to speak popularly: a group with five businesses, which has been lawfully built, bankrupt at one time, does not pay anyone, not even in the courts, and not all others are profitable. He's also living zipper. Business bankrupt and poor and business millionaires not to say billionaires. That's the reality. And you have created such a plan everywhere, all groups that stand out. I don't want to say names, because it doesn't, because they're too many, and we need to talk for hours. So what are you going to do to them? Still, about that risk you're talking about, didn't he take the risk? To pay for it. He cannot be dizzy and not pay the workers or ask workers to reduce wages. The workers won't pay again? But when his profits go up - I say not that we support it, because it does not happen and leads elsewhere, I have said it before - put 15% of the profits into wages by law. Why don't you do it? And why do you make the workers compulsorily reduce their earnings? Here's the hard class and inhumane politics. The second side concerns the raw intervention of the State and of the employer - a package goes - to the functioning of the trade union movement. And we say, with what right do you, government...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Paphie, I have...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u192	We agreed at the Conference of Presidents, if you see the Minutes, that the Parliamentary Representatives...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u193	No, it's not like that, we didn't agree, wait a minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u194	...they can use their dentistry. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u195	Oh, no. I was at the Conference of Presidents, too. Well, we have to respect the MPs as well. Listen to something.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u196	Yes, to respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u197	You're leaving me? Let me tell you what I think. Dentality has a practical meaning when prototypes are exhausted. But everyone's prototypes. In any case, finish as quickly as possible, because we are very low-speaking Members. Do me a favor to make everyone easier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, if you are concerned about this, why didn't you have four days to speak, both at the outset and on the articles, as we have proposed? Why are you going "spray, wipe up, are you done?" And now you're making the supporter talk? The President-in-Office made it clear at the Conference of Presidents that the parliamentary representatives, if they wish, can also use their dentistry. That's what I'm trying to do, and I'm not going any further, and you've eaten me for two and a half minutes. So I keep going. Trade union register and electronic voting option. Really, what evil mind or what evil minds did they think? With what right will you intervene in the operation of unions? Where did you get them from? The unions have statutes, are controlled by the first instances, perfection and dash. You want to cross-check what's going on? Take the records. Get it all out of the primary courtrooms. And how elections took place, and what the boards of directors are. There's all that evidence in the first instance, yes or no? So what do you want with the general file? Because that's what this is about. What do you want to achieve with that? Who's gonna have access to the register? The Minister will decide. Not to say now that with modern media they'll hack everything and each employer will have the register who's in the club so he can sort out. That's the point, that's why you want the record. Are you interested in the legality of the GSC? Whoa! Where's Mr. Brutsi? He doesn't know anything about what's going on in this place. Take the extrajudicial, we have tabled it in the Minutes, ninety-two pages, to see the monsters and signs of your chosen trade union mafia that has made a thousand two hundred builders in Calabaka that they voted and there are not even a hundred fifty. And too much. Managers, monsters and signs, recorded all of this. If you want to be clear, find out. The register is the list that's going to go to business people to get rid of. Potential for electronic voting. But, really, you're out of every limit. So he'll sit at his house and vote if we make a strike or not, he'll vote for the members of the board of directors. The employer will catch him on the neck, so I can tell the most - because what's happening and Mr. Brutsi has just been strengthening them - and he will say to him 'Hold on the computer and vote, see what you're voting on'. Yes or no? Yeah. Second theme, is all these systems diagnosed? It's and everything's hacked to use that word. Third and most important, what do you want to do? You want to castrate the labour movement from its strength and its strength is collectiveness, it is debate, it is confrontation of arguments, it is class solidarity. And that's not done by the cell phone at home, by the cell phone or the fixed computer of the boss. He will go to the assembly, speak, listen, see his other colleagues, that's what you want to castrate, that's what you want to break, that's what everybody is isolated in themselves at home. And leave them on'modern technology'. What do you think? Aren't you embarrassed? The other guy won't decide, he won't go to the convention? Do you want to remove all this? What do you want to do, Gotham? It's like fashion. That's what you want. You want as long as you can smash the power that the workers have. I'll say one more thing. This shows a cynicism unbelievable, an animosity irreversible, literally, with these two measures. Against who? Against those who produce wealth. You want to create a conflict within the trade union movement. Because you say 'we give the opportunity', it is not mandatory. But that is exactly what will happen, the employers will put what other workers buy out in many ways, both politically and economically, will put the associations and others to vote electronically and the fight will start within the trade union movement, that we are voting so, otherwise. So break-up. That's the story. The last point is the possibility of unilateral recourse to arbitration, which is abolished. You are not protecting the work or the workers, you are protecting a handful of capitalists who are taking advantage of the world. You give them everything. Do you have the impression that they'll stay that way? You may now see - and you know them very well - the difficulties of the labour movement by many factors and disappointment. Why, you of SYRIZA made the greatest offer of everyone, when radicalism was developed, disappoint them and lowered the head. But there are outbreaks of resistance that will strengthen and strengthen more and more. You're not gonna have a good time. We're warning you. And where you said "cemetery's wilderness", he filled Athens protests everywhere. And Mr Brutsis, when he speaks here - who is now absent and said that - when he speaks of trade union interests, look for them in the New Democracy, at the offices, to look for them in KINAL, to look elsewhere for them to the employers they buy. They are the ones who have interests, and not those who run from morning to night and are fighting and are made redundant by thousands already, so far, by the workers, because they are trying to defend basic rights. We'll be in the front line. People need to regroup in the unions, fly out the workers, support class forces. The JRC will be in the front line, and for the time being, part of the general overthrow, not the service of the barbarity of capitalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Francis Georgios from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u200	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this government has come to power, declaring that the main axis of its programme and its sovereign philosophy of the country's recovery is development. He also created expectations to the Greek citizen, proclaiming a development bill, which would put the economy machine on. But despite the huge volume of this bill, two hundred and eleven articles, less than 40% of its provisions deal with development issues. It is, in fact, a bill to draw up provisions of numerous ministries, seventeen in total. Nothing suggests the existence of a development vision and strategy, no attempt at productive reconstruction. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, this is, in fact, a multiplier, distinguished from sloppy and haste, such as all your current legislation, which you have brought to the last three months. You are introducing arrangements for amending provisions of previous laws, for example the law on the final state that we voted on two months ago. Give battle to win the impressions and stay away from the essence of good and effective legislature. Development is, moreover, about promoting a country's economy. How can they be absent from this draft legislation on tourism and the primary sector, which are pillars of our economy? You legislate about entrepreneurship in Greece, leaving more than 90% of enterprises outside, which are small and medium-sized enterprises, namely the backbone of entrepreneurship in Greece, and these companies have suffered and the most serious consequences of the crisis. So you give your stigma. You're for the few, but you're not for everyone. And on the pretext of growth, you are promoting arrangements for work, which in fact favour employers who are dissatisfied and looking for cheap work. You weaken collective bargaining through exceptions and conditions, while giving the Minister the overpower to specialise the new measures as appropriate. So we have the beginning of a man? The Change Movement supports the worker over time, the National General Convention, the sectoral contracts of work for all businesses. However, we also support the employer, but the person who moves within the framework of labour law and does not become dissatisfied with the interests of his workers. Over the past few days, with the collapse of the travel agency "Thomas COOK", the government has announced support measures for affected enterprises and for workers in them. But it spent a month and nothing has happened at all. The OAED has not proceeded with the implementation of the measures for workers. The Change Movement has tabled an amendment calling for legislation to allow measures to be implemented and for those who were directly charged to be relieved. After all, announcements and announcements do not form a policy. The actions and results are the ones that determine a government's policy. Another amendment we tabled relates to bank abuses. Banks in our country, in recent years, have charged all transactions, whether or not they are related to operating costs, and often exploiting the failure to negotiate on the part of the citizen. We therefore propose banning misuse of charges to ensure that the legality and protection of consumer rights are respected. We also propose that the banks should declare the cause of the charge, i.e. whether it concerns remuneration for services or operating costs, thus promoting competition in banking services. We have heard that the Prime Minister is now days - I do not know if he is today or tomorrow - he will have a meeting with the bankers to discuss various issues, perhaps what I mentioned earlier. We hope that this debate will have a substantial effect on the benefit of the citizens and that it is not for communication or impressive purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they attend the meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" Hall, twenty-nine students and students and two teachers attending the Patras Experimental Gymnasium. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides]] Mrs Ahtsoglu has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a quote from Mr Mitsotakis' speech in May 2018 at the General Assembly of the BSE. In May 2018, before leaving the memoranda, before we restore from the SYRIZA side, the basic principles of collective bargaining. Mr Mitsotakis then said, "We know where we come from and where we don't want to go. We have fully understood the side effects that the problematic combination of three factors has caused to competitiveness. The extension of collective agreements, unilateral recourse to arbitration and the principle of overpowering sectoral agreements to operational agreements’. "This trifle..." - said Mr Mitsotakis - "is making the market extremely rigid and we are determined not to allow these arrangements to revival and it is certain that unemployment will reinstate the state, with any application of what the government has announced." Then he means SYRIZA. In this passage Mr. Mitsotakis has condensed the contents of the development bill completely and let them try for some days, in fact, and Mr. Brutsis, and less Mr. Georgiadis, to convince us that it is not that and the bill does something else. The bill does exactly what Mr Mitsotakis said. It abolishes these three principles, which facilitated the conclusion of collective agreements and thus improved wages and working conditions at sectoral level. The principle of more favourable regulation, expansion and unilateral referral to arbitration. So it was honest, then, but he was wrong about two things. That these would never come back - they came back from the SYRIZA government in the intervening period - and that would take out unemployment. In fact, within one year, from the reintroduction of collective agreements, from the summer of 2018 to the summer of 2019, unemployment further decreased by two points. I mean the total of ten units that the SYRIZA government has reduced. But it was sincere at the time. At the moment, they are trying in a context of great uncertainty to say that the bill does not do that, but the bill focuses on limiting privileges of some trade unionists. You're a liar absolutely. The bill hits sectoral collective bargaining and referral to arbitration very specifically in the same way as the second Memorandum. Right on the same spot. So I realise that communication is more conscientious to say - especially at a time when trade unionism has been devalued in the country - that here is a few trade unionists who are afflicting many. But that's not the truth, it's a huge lie. I would like to address the basic arguments I have heard mainly from Mr Brutsi and Mr Georgiadis. The second issue. The bill says that it does not abolish collective bargaining and collective bargaining, it simply sets out some possibilities of flexibility and even very limited and very limited, in order to deal with extreme cases of business being closed down. I leave this if it would be a welcome development, which it would not be, but the bill does not. The bill brings about three levels such as this to ensure that under no circumstances will we have a sectoral collective labour agreement which will ultimately apply at the place. Firstly, it provides that companies with a very broad definition of economic problems may be excluded from the application of sectoral agreements. Secondly, it stipulates that even if employers and workers do not want it, companies will still be able to exempt self service and Minister's decision. Thirdly, it provides that even in cases where a sectoral collective agreement has been extended, undertakings are generally declared compulsory and can be exempted. It also provides that local sectoral contracts can also be exempted and special economic zones created. So it seals it from all sides, so that we do not in any way have the possibility of overcoming a sectoral collective agreement. The bill says it's just a synchronization of the institutional framework. No, that's not the bill. The bill is a wage reduction mechanism, and that is the stated objective of the bill. I do not need to look at the second memorandum at all what they have done and what consequences they have had on wage cuts. Let me just say that the document from the Bank of Greece, the draft assessment report from the Bank of Greece, which the government constantly invokes to justify this bill, says it clearly. It says clearly on page 4 that the direct effect of the bill is to reduce private sector wages. So we have a stated objective of the bill mechanism to reduce wages and reduce the coverage of workers by sectoral agreements. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The report also says that two or three pages below. It is the report that the government itself invokes. So let us not be fooled at least that this is about modernization. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to come to two points Mr Georgiadis said yesterday when I raised the issue of unconstitutionalism, the abolition of unilateral referrals to arbitration. I had no right to denial, and I couldn't answer it. He said that what they do at referral is close to what the International Labour Organisation proposes. Look, the point is that the government on labour matters is using all the arguments used by the troika in the negotiation. All the arguments! In fact, anyone who has negotiated with the troika knows very well what argument New Democracy will give him to work. That's right. And that's what I think is remarkable. So Mr Georgiadis says this with the International Labour Organisation. It is good to know that the conclusions of the International Labour Organisation cannot be used as cards whenever they suit us, because the International Labour Organisation says and that everything else that they do is incomprehensible, is unacceptable. The principles of better regulation of prolongation should be respected. But here, the Greek Constitution is fortunately clear on the question of arbitration and protects it from unilateral recourse to arbitration, and this has been decided by the Council of State, despite the statements made by the Government itself in 2013, that this is a conflict with the International Labour Convention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u203	Mrs. Ahchioglu, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, I will conclude, but I want to say something. When the Minister of Labour always legislates in secret, discussions can not be held in the House. The Minister for Labour is constantly legislating in secret, with last-minute amendments, before the House closes and with amendments to other bills, abolishing all working rights. When a secret law is made, how will a debate be held in Parliament, with the five minutes that you give SYRIZA's head of department to answer? This is not a serious procedure. It is deeply problematic and it should not be afraid that Mr Brutsi will come to address his political opponent. Mr. Georgiadis said that I was the SBBE, the Industrial Association of Northern Greece, and that proves that I was the Minister of Employers. Let me remind Mr Georgiadis that he obviously does not know - Mr Brutsi told him to say so - that the recognition of an additional national social partner does not change the relationship between employers and workers in the institutions. Where the representation of workers and employers is anticipated is balanced. Three on the part of the workers? Three of the employers. Let the employers find out which three they will be. Four? Four.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u205	Mrs. Ahchioglu, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u206	I shall conclude, Mr President. My recognition of the SBV was the only blow that caused, and that is why it obviously disturbed New Democracy, it was that it slightly reduced the SBV's finances and reduced the SBV's dynamics. And that obviously bothered them too much. I'm closing up with this. I have pointed out, I think, the main practical consequences of this bill on the removal of wages and rights. But there is a moral issue too. This bill steals from the workers what they won with the exit from the memos. And that, if it's not an idea, then it's something worse. It's vengeance and reunification. Not to SYRIZA, but primarily to the workers. Tell your Minister to legislate clearly. With clean bills from the Ministry of Labour, just like we did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u207	Please, Mrs. Ahchioglu, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u208	In any case, then, the people who listen to us should also know clearly about the Ministry of Labour bills. For weeks. Clean and clean. In any case, then, the people who hear us that this regression will be neither permanent nor definitive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u209	Mr Chrysomalis Miltiadis has the floor from the New Democracy. The Deputy Prime Minister will follow Mr Petsas and then Mr Petsas, three speakers, Mr Himaras, Mrs Manolakou and Mr Kegeroglu. And then Mr. Kegeroglou, the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, Mr. Papathanases.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President, or I do not know whether I should finally say, Mr President, and I think I have been expressing many colleagues who have been patiently waiting since this morning. Does anyone really think in this Chamber that the multi-project we are discussing today seeks to give original and innovative solutions to innovative problems or nourishes laurels of an innovative development bill? Obviously not. First, the Minister himself stressed this in the committee debate. Nevertheless, I think it is one of the best bills that have come, because it gives solutions and stops the suffering of thousands of our fellow citizens in what they face in their daily lives. Today's bill is not, despite the common sense bill. It is not, despite the expected corrective moves, to bring the bases in so that the country can enter a real development path and restore its normality after four and a half years of the SYRIZA - ANLE's ideological policies. You all know, ladies and gentlemen, that we are in a country where foreign direct investment is at 1.9% of GDP, one of the lowest levels of the European Union and in general in recent years investment in our country has fallen by much more than 60%. It therefore runs counter to common sense in a country like this, pouring two and a half thousand investment projects for years into public services for approval of integration. So these are released with this bill. Investment projects, meaning jobs, State income, development. And believe me, investment projects do not concern big business, nor do they have little or nothing to do with the implementation of a working middle age. They are plans by small and medium-sized businessmen, our fellow citizens, that is, people on the next door, who so far feel have made the mistake of investing in their own country. With this bill, we give them a way out. The country is finally taking the step towards the proper supervisory, effective functioning of the state. The State assumes its genuine supervisory role by controlling the process of authorising the investment, but also by stepping up sanctions where there is a discrepancy from the law. It is the same model as the building auditor, which operates without problems in the construction sector and has as far as licensing and construction times are concerned. Also, through the national redesign and simplification of procedures, Lernay Hydra of bureaucracy, which costs both time and money to our fellow investors, is dealt with. It simplifies and accelerates the procedure for the legality and publication of the act of company data in GEMI with strict time limits and the inclusion of certified notaries for the preparation of documents, without requiring the visit to other offices. Finally, there is an accelerated judicial procedure with the compulsory electronic deposit and service of documents and other documents in the administrative courts and in the S.H.E. Honestly, it is not possible to discuss today whether or not this arrangement is necessary, when we know that in the World Bank's 'Doing Business' ratio, the country ranks thirty-thirds in ninety-sixty countries and second in the European Union. It is not possible, too, to discuss whether or not it is necessary to establish a single digital map, which will finally clarify what is allowed and where for anyone who wants to invest in Greece. And I say, finally, because in Greece of 2019 no investor, businessman, professional or private is able to know with certainty what is true about building, environmental, archaeological or other regulatory commitments in his property and if he wants to know this, he will be involved in a siege and often a vain marathon of visits to services, ministries, offices and everything else your mind puts. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] I should also like to congratulate the Minister for the Rules of Procedure on the reply of the public services to requests for investment and not just within sixty days. The delay in public services means a delay in the functioning of the market, in the payment of fees, in the movement of money in general. In fact, I will be happy if we can further reduce in the future this time. In conclusion, I could not fail to mention the speeches made by the bill on labour, which are far from ideological condolences, as the people of Anti-Population want to tell us and have the common sense at their core. Because it is the common sense which requires the creation of the electronic register of trade unions, in order to obtain the necessary transparency that everyone wants in the trade union movement. The choice of employees to take part in decision-making through electronic procedures is the logical pursuit of the trade union movement itself and should have been decades now. Finally, I would like to stress that undeclared work and the loss of income from the insurance system are really being dealt with, while in addition to the bill, full-time workers are being encouraged and not the part they have blossomed over your days, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. Because the current New Democracy Government within the framework of liberalism and social values, which it empowers, strengthens and supports entrepreneurship, but is incompatible with reasonable middle-ages and circumventing the rules and obligations of the social partners. For us, the goal is one: Good paid jobs for all Greek women and all Greeks and part-time work does not serve this goal. On the contrary, he holds the dreams of the young people of this country hostage. Every incentive, therefore, to full employment is the hope of every new toward his dreams. That is why we will support and vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty students and students and two trainers from the Experimental Gymnasium Patras (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Petsas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to share my placement in two places. One, to support Amendment No 6717/23-10-2019 on the so-called 'digital dividend 2' and then on to the second part, to provide some clarification on issues that have been discussed on either the strengthening of the media by development law or the non-nominalisation of shareholders of collective investment undertakings in securities, which may invest in the media. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment we are proposing today seeks to resolve, in cooperation with the Ministry responsible for Digital Governance, a purely technical issue for the benefit of the citizens in relation to the viewing of television programmes throughout Greece. What is the amendment doing? It is faced with the identified problem of not being able to broadcast TV programmes in high resolution in certain geographical areas of the country, due to technical constraints relating to the availability of the frequency spectrum and its redistribution under the new frequency map. We are therefore directly responding to the solution of a technical issue, which also relates to the wider context of technological and economic developments in the context of the so-called 'digital dividend 2', i.e. the liberalisation of the 700 MHz frequency band from its present use, the digital television service, with a view to being made available to broadband electronic services, i.e. mobile telephony. This release is scheduled to be completed in June 2021. For this reason, a redesign of the digital television frequency map is required. Technically, until the release of the spectrum, there is extremely closeness in the availability of the spectrum of radio frequencies, resulting in a possible burden on the quality provided to the citizens. In other words, there are objective technical constraints, which are due precisely to the narrowness in the availability of the spectrum. In accordance with the applicable legislation, and in particular Article 2(4) of Law4339/2015, providers of free national television broadcasting content of all categories — in this case, ERT and broadcasters via DIGEA — are obliged to transmit their programme to formal clarification, Standard Definition and high clarity. This is defined by the law and the authorisations granted to them by the PSE. However, it is proven on the basis of all available evidence that even now it is technically impossible to comply with the provision of the law on the simultaneous transmission of the program to formal and high clarity. It is therefore a question of justice, equal treatment, good administration, transparency and protection of the legitimate trust of the administration - in this case, of the providers - for the Greek state to have the Greek Parliament voted on the provision we are discussing today. It is also our duty to protect citizens from unjustified expenses and unnecessary suffering, so that they can continue to watch television just as they do to this day. Thus, they do not need to change TV or get a new T2 technology decoder until all technical difficulties are encountered. Therefore, they do not have to make expenditure today which would be useless for at least the end of 2021. Thus households can make better planning of their family budgets and providers of a more rational distribution of their necessary investments. Let us not blind ourselves, ladies and gentlemen. This issue is well known to all those involved in the drafting of the new frequency map. So you are aware of the problem, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, and I would like your support for this amendment. Therefore, the proposed provision proposes the simple, clear and fair regulation: Providers still have the same obligation as provided for by Law4339/2015 to transmit the programme in formal and in high clarity by 31 December 2021. However, if, for technical reasons, the transmission in high resolution is proven to be feasible, the providers can only transmit a formal resolution. The determination of the existence of such technical difficulties is the responsibility of the independent authorities, the PSE and the ERT. At the end of the transitional period required to adapt the new frequency map, i.e. as from 1 January 2022, providers shall be required to transmit high resolution unless, in accordance with that finding, a high resolution is not possible for technical reasons. I would also like to make two clarifications. Firstly, in relation to Article 3 of the bill, what do we do? We allow media enterprises to benefit from support from development law, such as all other sectors of the economy, as provided for by existing legislation and the acquis communautaire. Any reinforcement of the audiovisual work does not concern this provision as it can be done by the EMEA in accordance with the provisions of Law 4487/2017. With regard to Rule 157 of the bill, because all this time in the drafting of the bill in the parliamentary committees it appears that certain provisions have been misinterpreted, let us clarify some points. First, nominal shares. First of all, according to what is laid down in the first paragraph of Article 235 of the EEC Treaty. 4548/2018 on the reform of the law of public limited companies, public limited companies no longer have the possibility to issue public limited shares, i.e. shares of public limited companies are no longer nominal. In simple terms, the securities of the shares may bear the particular shareholder that holds them, irrespective of whether he is a natural or legal person. Second, denomination of SME shares. With regard to these undertakings, the legislator first imposes the obligation to denomination to the natural person of the shareholders, but it already provides for two main exceptions. First, public limited companies operating legally according to the law of a Member State — a Member State of the European Union and the European Economic Area are subject to the above obligations on the denomination of shares to a natural person only if the law of the country in which they have their head office imposes the denomination of their shares as a whole to a natural person for the whole of their activity or for an SME-related activity only. Secondly, the obligation to name up to a natural person does not apply to the shares of listed shares in the Member States of the European Union or the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development of companies. It is precisely this regulation that we are enriching with this provision in Article 157. Thirdly, regarding the register of actual beneficiaries, we should not confuse the obligation to keep a register by corporate and other entities established in Greece or operating in business with regard to their actual beneficiaries and to register them in the Central Register of actual beneficiaries provided for in Article 20 of Law 4557/2018 on the prevention and repression of money laundering. These provisions of course continue to apply. However, I would remind you that pursuant to paragraph 2 of Article 20 of that Law, and in particular as amended by Article 62 of Law 4607/2019, i.e. on previous governance, listed companies on a regulated market or a multilateral trading mechanism, keep a record of notifications submitted to the Securities Committee and do not require registration in the Central Register of actual beneficiaries. In addition, the Central Register may be interconnected with the securities repositories or any other body where information on the actual beneficiaries of companies and other entities established in Greece is kept. As regards UCITS, whether or not listed, there is a registration obligation for beneficiaries under the legislation applicable to them and resulting from the Directives of the European Union. This register shall be requested by the competent supervisory authorities whenever necessary. I would remind you at this point that the provisions of existing legislation provide for specific investment limits, as detailed in Articles 61 and 64 of Law 4099/2012, and relate to authorised holdings on the UCITS' net assets in securities or money-market instruments of the same issuer and to the prohibition of significant influence, that is, what we used to call 10% of one company. Furthermore, listed AIFs, Alternative Investment Agencies and OSEs, Collective Investment Agencies established in Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the OECD are subject to corresponding transparency obligations imposed by their respective stock exchanges. After all, if we do not hide behind our fingers, if there is a risk of circumvention of the provisions, there is even now that the legislation in force provides for an exception for listed companies in OECD member countries. Here we go. If any other legislative intervention is needed in the future, we will push it forward if we see that there is circumvention, I imagine, with agreement of all the wings of this House. The fourth element concerns 'wherever you are concerned'. With regard to the proposed exemption from ‘from the outset’, the careful study of the provision shows that this exemption concerns only the main shareholders falling under the provision of Article 5(4) of Law No4339/2015 and those shareholders alone, i.e. only the shareholders of the UCITS and not, of course, the current shareholders of the SMEs, as already apparent from what I have said so far. Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, could I have the floor for three minutes to ask Mr. Petchas something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u214	Not yet. We've come to an agreement. You will be given the floor as rapporteurs and special speakers at some point. It's not right now...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u215	Because Mr. Petchas is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u216	You'll ask him a question later. Here's the government. He'll answer. We're continuing with Mr. Himara. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, during the last two days in the Chamber, our country's ranking at the Doing Business index and the seventeenth second place we are in. I'll put something else in your mind. I will talk to you about a success story we have on the opposite side of other countries that have shown the way, such as Portugal, which introduced new technologies into its development law, i.e. digital services that simplified investment processes, saving time and money for the state, as well as for the investor. In this way, Portugal has managed to climb thirty-fourth in the Doing Business index, where we are in the seventeenth second place. It is known that in the past, strategic investments have remained on paper for decades, they have put them on paper. Candidate investors were caught in administrative procedures in an endless hunt for signatures. Allow me to take a brief memory, a clear case in which the paradoxes of the former state system are revealed, that of the tourist investment of 'COSTA NAVARINO'. As we all know, apart from money and work, the investor had to invest more than fifteen years in the war against bureaucracy to succeed in putting his project into operation. But let us look a little further at this business 'double'. In the first phase of the implementation of the investment programme, it had to obtain some - very three thousand signatures from various departments, twenty joint ministerial decisions, six hundred licences and opinions. Sixty trials took place at all grades. It is worth mentioning that the Wall Street Journal at that time had described as a Byzantine test the attempt to create golf facilities and not unfairly, since the environmental impact assessment, the conditions of land use and construction, and the rest of the country's demonic legislation, caused us decades to delay. Ladies and gentlemen, in general I want to be fair. The truth is that development law 4399/2016 moved in the right direction towards targeting those sectors of the Greek economy that present the required dynamics, which can play a leading role in the difficult business environment. But the truth is that despite the good intention of development law, the result was not the expected result. That's where everything is judged. The delays in the evaluation, approval, control and disbursement of the grant choked investment. Restless businessmen who were ready to grow, people who believed they could do it, who were swimming across the current, who insisted on investing in Greece of the crisis, found themselves blocking the delays, they ended up trapped, many of them in the banks' guises. That's what we're changing today. You see, I have luck, not knowing business from the descriptions of my friends and from the books, but doing it for the past twenty years. I therefore know, first of all, that the design of an investment project, the development of the proposal and the integration into development law are a process that ensures the development of enterprises in an international business environment that is highly competitive and difficult. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The truth is that integration into an investment programme, and in particular its implementation, is indeed a day-to-day equilibrium, a time-to-day equilibrium test which, if lost, could destroy the firm itself and, of course, lead to the workers' unemployment. Time, ladies and gentlemen, it is perhaps the most important factor that can have a decisive impact on the realization of an investment. That is what we are dealing with today's legislation. It does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, in Greece 2019, that there is, for example, an international investment interest in the development of thermal sources and infrastructures in my place in Fthiotida and the state to stumble themselves. Scorpions and incomplete urban envelopes, half-finished for years environmental impact studies, conflicting land uses keep the SWEDEN contests all these years in drawers. And Phthiotida, instead of a health tourism destination, remains a place of unemployment and a depreciation of its natural wealth. Do we really all know in this Chamber the steps needed to start and complete an investment? When you want to create a new investment, you need to know the data on the site. With the Infrastructure Register and the Single Digital Map, we achieve the self-evident, that is to say, to know the potential investor by pressing a button on the potential and actual current state of the property. I could talk about time, but I don't have time. And experientially I can talk about these issues from all these years, but if we want to be honest, if we want to leave to yesterday the inexpensive controversy, if we all agree today that the issue, which is missing from our country and which is more than ever necessary, is to attract investment, is to create well-paid full-time jobs, then we have to agree that this bill serves all of us in this Chamber: The vision of Greece that we have to deliver to our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u218	Until Mrs. Manolakos goes up to Vima, let me say that she follows, after Mrs. Manolakos, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Deputy Minister, Mr Papathanassis, will then speak to the rapporteurs and the special speaker will be given three minutes. [[Noise - protests in the Chamber]] I know, the MPs are protesting. Do you disagree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u219	Is that all the speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u220	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, please give the floor to the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u222	If you don't accept it, we're on the way. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u223	This bill calls it developmental. Yes, it is developmental, only for capital because for the rest of the world it is deeply anti-virtual, crushing, demolishing what is left of the previous governments on labour rights. It shoots at collective labour contracts and especially at sectoral level. It exercises a suffocating control over the trade unions to prevent their action, in order to be in favour of the interests of the workers, thus serves the employer to exploit workers more heatedly and to gain higher value. In short, you are providing the capital with cheap labour and conditions so that they cannot protest precisely about this. This is how the groups have secured and new profitability. But you know you're deeply mistaken if you think you're gonna put class struggle on the plaster. It's not sneezing, it's not being imprisoned, it's continuing with whatever circumstances you're trying to shape. Fairly, then, class trade unions, workers and municipalities and other sectors are in demonstrations and strikes. Secondly, it is counter-environmental and let you be philosophers. It's fashionable for mocking and making more profit. You are supposed to be interested in climate change and green development. Ash in the eyes! You're pretending. Above all, you have capitalists' profits, and the truth is you're not hiding. Just when the profits are above people, neither can the environment respect and protect public health. After all, you prove it from the first articles. Degrade the few environmental conditions to shrink licensing times. The monopolies, such as the 'COSCO' in Piraeus, will be in the good pleasure not only because you started privatising the largest port in the country, but also because you reduce any environmental restrictions for the expansion of the Chinese monopoly in Piraeus, the most beautiful region of Piraeus that will destroy it with the blessings and subsidies of your own and SYRIZA, to become a tourist port and increase its profits. And with yesterday's announcement, VAT freeze, joyful gospels, because of course it is not about the small and medium-sized ones. They alone have been and proved by the red debts in the banks. Thirdly, your bill is also unhealthy, since you allow medium-term nuisance even close to residential areas, with what this means to residents. The same category belongs to the issue of mobile antennas which are technically not mentioned at all at distances from schools and other sensitive points for the protection of human health, but there is concern that you refer them to ministerial decisions and committees. You know that there have been many mobilisations in various areas to remove antennas that cause health problems. We present a characteristic case from the area of Keratini, with all the evidence of the impact. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] We ask you to study it and the right of residents even judicially. They've finally removed the antenna, but - we're transferring it to you - they're in agony if they're seeing it again. Overall, therefore, the interests of capital and the competitiveness of profitability promote, following on from SYRIZA policy, despite individual disagreements. The same anti-popular strategy you serve. But you have shared roles. Eventually you promote everything the others left and are seen as an obstacle to the further profitability of the groups, you are even leveling it in the protection and promotion of the cultural heritage, since you are legislating an unacceptable fast track procedure for the removal of archaeological obstacles. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And that is not all, you anticipate sanctions against civil servants in the event of a delay in the procedures for investments. With a minimum disciplinary penalty, the temporary cessation of three months. This is the rule of law that you are building, in favour of capital alone, when thousands of pensioners are waiting for two and three years to get the pension they are entitled to. That's where you don't take measures. We are therefore voting against. But know that the trade union movement, whatever obstacles you put, will be reconstructed to overthrow this barbarity and it can't do otherwise, it has no other options. That is why we welcome today's demonstrations as a hopeful principle and action to overthrow capitalist barbarism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. I understand that the proposal I made earlier, after consulting my colleagues, may go ahead. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, we have these days been following a confrontation of two wrong policies, two atrocious conceptions which are only made for communication. The New Democracy and the European People's Party are well known to foster the market and have economic development as an end in themselves. They consider social inequalities to be self-evident and essentially indifferent to social needs. SYRIZA and the left-wing riots are hosting market and entrepreneurship. They are fundamentally not concerned with the development which they consider to be self-evident and only see it as an object of overtaxation for the management of poverty and the poor of this very policy. We, the Change Movement, the Social Democrats, believe and insist on the need for a plan that combines development with environmental consciousness and social justice. Sustainable development for us is a key pillar for both the green and the social contract, to achieve social inclusion, progress and prosperity and to address both social inequalities and the environmental crisis. For the bill we're discussing, it became a lot of dormant while it was on the way to the House. We could say that he was "glorified by the oral word and oppressed by the written one". After ten years of crisis Greece needs a development plan for economic recovery, investment, to produce new wealth, of course always with respect for the environment. At the same time, the society that has paid the marble of this crisis awaits measures to address extreme injustices and, of course, social justice policies to tackle social inequalities and create new jobs. Instead, the Government of New Democracy, which had announced a development plan, submitted to parliament a bill below the needs of Greece and society. It includes neither vision nor operational planning, nor concrete incentives and directions to achieve growth and productive reconstruction. There are, of course, individual arrangements and arrangements. Some are necessary, but most of them are 'trues and bricks and horns', rather than parts of a single project. In the government's policy, it appears that the obsession with the deregulation of the labour market, labour relations, prevails. It devaluates collective agreements. It creates a strong unfair competition between companies, which is based on the reduction of pay, but also on the depreciation of working conditions. Only winners who will not be obliged or subject to collective agreements. In the first instance, workers who are not obliged to comply with the contracts and then in breach of them because of unfair competition are injured. Yesterday, in order to be justified, the Minister referred to similar decisions of 2012, the heart of the memorandum and the sovereignty of the lenders. At that time, the lenders did ask for it. "Today, who requested it?" We told him. He didn't answer. I am putting forward an employer's document which, on 27 August 2019, calls for exactly what the Minister of Labour is doing today. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is clear that we are not voting on Articles 53 and 57 concerning the complete deregulation of labour relations and we have already tabled a request for a roll-call vote. We also vote against and request a roll-call vote on Article 178 which privatises municipal services and on Article 184, which retroactively legitimises the rotating meetings of the municipal council of the Municipality of Glyfada, the chosen mayor of New Democracy, and of course legalises this process as a permanent institution from now on. We are also voting against and requesting a roll-call vote on Rule 210, which restores the well-known Golden Boys - we have forgotten them - and the Golden Girls - and something else they said to me, but I did not know how to formulate them - with high fees.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u226	7,300!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u227	7,300. Golden boys! From the ministerial amendments we are voting in favour of the Elefsina Shipyards and the 'House Help' programme. However, we do not vote for the amendment on the retroactive legalisation of illegal transactions through POS for the purchase of real estate and the granting of gold visas. I submit to the Proceedings on these illegal transactions in 2017 and stress that legislation needs to be laid down and the visa procedure needs to be shielded instead of punitive, because most of those who take the golden visa then resold the properties within a few days and there is no control mechanism. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We as a Change Movement have tabled three amendments. The first concerns the authorisation of the Finance and Development Ministers to deal with bank abuses by abolishing the highest charges for self-declared transactions with their clients. The Prime Minister's communication meetings with the banks are not enough. Let them be too, but it's not enough. It needs legalization and decisions. I will present in the Minutes a ministerial decision of 2011 which, as a competent State Secretary, abolished ten abusive conditions of the banks. With a ministerial decision. And we say 'all right, you don't want the old one, we give you new opportunities with the legislation with a new ministerial decision to abolish them, and you say 'we'll meet with the banks'. All right, let's meet, but we'll see in the next few days what you'll do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u228	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u229	I shall conclude, Mr President. The second amendment we have tabled relates to the MAGP, which correctly includes arrangements for dealing with the problems of companies affected by the bankruptcy of 'THOMAS COOK'. Measures for enterprises have been implemented, but the measures for workers have been forgotten! Where's Mr. Brutsi? He forgot! So we have an amendment that says that hundreds of signals are eighty to join the Unemployment Fund that you have agreed and three and a half months to the Unemployment Fund are four and a half. That is exactly what you agreed, with one difference: we say four and a half for all workers in seasonal work and if they fill in a hundred times. This amendment must be accepted. It is what you are committed to and have not been regulated. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that we insist on our proposal for economic recovery, social justice and, of course, environmental political awareness, for the creation of new jobs. We will continue in this direction with initiatives and parliamentary interventions in order to demand sustainable solutions to the problems facing the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u230	The Foreign Minister, Mr Papathanasis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, following all the parliamentary procedure provided for, we had the opportunity to read out the text of the bill at first reading, to listen to the institutions, to go to second reading and, in general, to judge at first instance, but also to write all the provisions of the bill. It was clearly a good criticism, and in this good criticism of technical issues, we responded with technical answers. To any questions that had an ideological mark, we responded with the ideological sign of our Government. After all, this is the quintousity of democracy. The quintuosity of democracy is the government to follow the political and vision it has presented to the Greek people. The government was judged on the proposal, on the development it wants to bring, and for this reason it tabled this bill, entitled "I invest in Greece". Is it only this bill entitled “Investing in Greece” that will bring growth to the country? Clearly not. These are all the bills the government will bring to growth. Simply, the bill: “I invest in Greece” sends a message to the global business environment that the investor in Greece will no longer be inconvenienced by the deadly investment hug of the state, this deadly hug of the state that was pre-selling throughout the four and a half years of SYRIZA governance. A new pro-investment horizon is therefore opened, where investment projects and business plans can, in fact, have an average and end. The bill: "Investing in Greece" is emblematic because it marks a new relationship of trust between the State and the private initiative. In other words, it is the heart of the development proposal, which was considered by the people on 7 July. It expresses the government's determination to give vision and solutions to chronic problems which have frozen any ambitious investment project. It is the push towards the future, the proposal and the message that Greece can change and become the development surprise of the next years of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, conditions are changing, needs are multiplying, and we must be ahead of developments. We place the bar to the digital age requirements and good European and international practices. The possibilities exist, we define the framework. We have therefore looked at investment distortions and we face many of the obstacles to business activity and cure weaknesses resulting from poor and fragmented legislation. Plateaus and very briefly: We are giving more flexibility to strategic investments as a pillar of growth. We are introducing a flexible process of certification and integration and the start of production of an investment, so that we can save investors from the great suffering of being delayed in completing their investment, perhaps many months, perhaps years. We facilitate investment in business parks, because we want to drive the industry within business parks. Authorization for business operation is made directly in most cases. For the first time, individuals are entitled to be certified as auditors. The National Development Plan introduces the concept of planning development assistance. The Hellenic Investment and External Trade Company is a key tool for supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of exports and investment. The Single Digital Charter is created as a tool for development, and many who are involved as freelance professionals can appreciate and appreciate it in the future. All public infrastructure will be registered with the National Infrastructure Register. The Writing Observatory is being created that will seek out all the strangles. In justice we pass to the threshold of the digital age. We intervene in public procurement, speed up and minimise the time to deal with the requests in GFCM, we close it to zero. Improve Golden Visa and clearly settle the naughty environment for toys. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill lays the foundations for creating more and better paid jobs. The exhibition of the Bank of Greece, which was ironically characterised by the spokesman of the major Representation as the "one scientific set of our law", refers to the improvement of the business environment and the wider institutional framework, which is expected to increase overall productivity, having a positive impact on the productive potential of the economy. Effective administrative burden reduction will enhance competition in the product market and serve as a 'dominant' for increasing the national product, investment and employment. I have listened carefully to the suggestions made by the Members of the House, and I would like to refer more specifically to a number of specific issues which have been raised so that no questions could be answered as much as possible. So the SYRIZA spokesman said that the SYRIZA government developed a holistic development strategy, created tools, accelerated procedures. I guess we're living in another country! Because since this has happened, why are business plans in drawers for years? Why is evaluation and control delayed years, resulting in ailing or abandoning the efforts of investors? Why were you "killing", gentlemen of Officerial Response every day the Greek? Why did you kill Cassiopi? Why did you kill so many jobs? It was also heard by the President of Mera25, apart from, of course, the long - and small - economic analyses that led the country to the rocks and brought the capital controls to a halt to environmental licensing. And we have also answered that, nowhere in this bill, the value of environmental licensing is reduced. Time limits go in so that investment is not delayed. As to the questions raised by the Change Movement, they were answered by the Minister. I would just like to mention the point that it should be understood that in terms of nuisance and environmental classification these two systems are integrated into a single industrial classification system. This does not mean that land use is changed or the country's urban planning. We simply get rid of outdated systems and facilitate the process, both for entrepreneurs and for administration. We also continue what I said earlier, that we have not simplified the environmental process at all. Even in business parks that have ceased to operate, the company becomes responsible for any environmental risks caused by its non-functional installations. So you are wrongly accusing us of not complying with environmental procedures. Mr. Karathanasopoulos from the JRC referred to a possible deterioration in the quality of life of middle-grade enterprises. I would like to reply that there is no question of this because it is laid down in this bill that business is now concentrated where infrastructure, organised facilities and that can be welcomed and supported. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be realistic. Without serious investment, growth will not come as it did not come with the previous government. In order to convince serious entrepreneurs to invest in our country, however, it is necessary to give incentives. And incentives are to simplify and accelerate licensing procedures. We must strengthen our economy and reduce administrative burdens in order to strengthen the development perspective. We are therefore changing the business environment, so that it does not undermine the country's ability to produce wealth and new jobs. Therefore, we need immediately brave and decisive initiatives for the rapid and effective improvement of this environment. That's what we do. Greece must finally recover and become an investment hub. We're running. We are running, to bring growth, to change a page, to create the financial area, to implement this ambitious programme announced by our Prime Minister. And we will, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u232	Now let's go to what I had announced. The rapporteurs will take a three-minute time, but they will be kept exactly, because we have many colleagues who are rightly complaining and have to speak. Mr. Economou from New Democracy has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, the articles and the law have been discussed in detail. If one thing has emerged, it is the very substantial differences of understanding that result from our ideological and worthy context. In three parts I will refer to this very brief intervention. First of all, with our law, we are creating this framework so that the country can acquire a substantial and reflecting development strategy. And I say this, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in response to what has been said by the Opposition, because the country has not had a development strategy throughout the past period of SYRIZA governance. Its development was part of the puzzle of SYRIZA’s existential problem, the robbery war with the lenders. Attention, they said they wanted investment and large projects, they prepared them, but they were actually making huge barriers to "just five", "just ten" in "almost one". They discovered forests in the Greek, where several years ago planes landed. They discovered that half of Piraeus was an archaeological site. That's the reality. So the reality is, they were finding and doing. Because the institutional framework, the demonic distortions, all that we are trying to deal with with the bill, enabled them to invoke growth, but in fact to stand up to huge obstacles whenever something was going to happen. That is why it may be so illusory that, with an extremely large bill, we have made an extensive contribution to all these distortions and to the spurious arrangements that enabled investment to be recovered. Secondly, this development strategy, which we lay with this new framework that we are creating, our priority and our perception, leads to a country of prosperity, a society of prosperity, which combats inequality. Because this has also been heard during this debate, which is what model we are going to go there. Combating inequalities does not mean stacking the whole world on the basis of the pyramid, it does not mean artificial uniformity downwards. You do not fight inequality when you lure young children to study Physics and Mathematics by writing "5" and "6" in Mathematics and Physics, as is the case, for example, in the Departments of Physics and Mathematics in Lamia. You don't fight inequality when you open the gates to schools with free access without any evaluation to everyone. You're turning them into a problem in the future. You do not fight inequality when you do not create the standards of influencing fresh money in the province, in the region, with investments, with infrastructure, with jobs, where they will find income and a cut - and a good wage - 50 and a hundred and a hundred people, instead of caradicing about when a four-hour goes out to a supermarket in order to get a job. This is what is happening today in the vast majority of the Greek region. Tell me, how many foundations of such investments have been created since the completion of your development conferences, which you had set up a development strategy and priorities? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] And the third one - and I am closing down with that, Mr President, to be consistent in time too - is this. This philosophy and development strategy is obviously aimed at the many, obviously aimed at those who are looking for a road open to improve the quality of their lives. They are the ones who heard what you have been saying these days - you said it before the elections - the tape for interests, for graces, for big peoples, have heard it before, for terrorism in the workers, for there will be a general reduction in wages that you have said before, and there are those workers who have voted for New Democracy, and they are the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who have voted for a vote of confidence in Mr Mitsotakis and they are those people who are now waiting for us to be consistent in what we said, that we will keep our way of propensity and social rise open for many, with our politics and our interventions. To them we have a glance, the success of the policy and the improvement of the lives of these people will depend on the success of our governance and, among other things, the bill that we invite you to vote on now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Papas from SYRIZA has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. You don't have to torture yourself. Look at yourself in the mirror. Mr. Economou, I wasn't expecting such a position, I honestly speak to you. We've been through all these days to discuss this bill. The only thing you say is the study of the Bank of Greece, here I have it. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, if you expect to take the floor, take a look. To reduce wages it speaks of as a unique tool for infamous growth. It's not bad to treat it as a reality. It is an economic concept, which has failed. In fact, the Bank of Greece predicts that with what you do and by 2030 - because that is where it counts, as far as it makes simulations - wages will be lower. Don't be foolish in here. Here's the study. It has been invoked by your rapporteurs, your ministers. Take a look, it's not bad, it's not bad at all. Explain to your MPs what you mean. You were talking about better and more jobs. And you come here and the wages to reduce the work, the collective agreements to dismantle, and the jobs to be made less and worse. This is the bitter truth, and that is not our conclusion, it is your claim, clearly recorded, that this condition will once bring growth. You won't let us sanctify! We are telling you that you have no strategy and that you are going to the obsolete model of tourism and building and you are now starting, we have seen amendments coming to a firm conclusion - obviously no surprise has caused us, prepared - and the condo hotels in, that is to say, hotels that can divide their existing infrastructure and rent certain rooms. No new investment. Who ordered this? What practice of good lawmaking is it that imposed it? Chambers. You have tabled an amendment to the Chambers, to become four years, he says, the terms of office of the new central administrations. Can I ask you something? Were the presidents not here and the Chamber of Economic Affairs and the Chamber of Technical Chambers not here at the hearing and nothing was discussed? What's the need for you to bring the amendment to night? Golden Visa, we obviously cannot vote on it, especially with retroactive effect for the POS from 1-1 to 17 and with a legal case pending. Paris. Mr. Economou appears to be a consultant for a company, which has asked for a special spatial plan to build from 300 square meters 12.5 thousand square meters. There is a major issue. He'll do one of two. He cannot be a consultant of the company and facilitate through the legislation, which he introduces to the Greek Parliament, the company that hires him as consultant. We're going to make a detailed legalization. Canals, canals, This is where you won't let me sanctify myself, I'm so sorry. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, and I apologise to this House. Name of shares: scan it. Explain to Mr. Rousopoulos, because his law is as deaf as it was the law 4339 with which it was licensed. She's leaving 'where you'. We believe it is an insulting regulation for the Greek Parliament because we are all indebted to each other and will not be after the vote, if you take this step, the owners of television stations and directors. You must not send such a message from the Greek political system. Broadcasting. Mr. Pecha, there's the EMEA. He's doing another job. Mr Georgiadis has said here twice that you will bring about a legislative improvement that will leave code 60 for the production of broadcasting. He has told the committees too, he has said so in plenary. You've brought over a hundred legislative improvements - I'm not overreacting, it's over a hundred - and this one hasn't arrived yet. We're waiting to see her. And of course we are now coming to the last facility, which is the indefinite postponement of the obligation on television stations to go to a high-definition broadcast. And you blame us for excluding investments! We've set them up for both the signal distribution network and their equipment, and now you're coming to tell us what? That this obligation is postponed. On what excuse? This is where we laugh. The excuse is, it says, narrow the spectrum. Did you hear that well, gentlemen of the New Democracy? The spectrum is limited. Do you remember what we had suffered in person when we told you that the spectrum is limited and the channels are not unlimited? Can you imagine your Chief going out to this Step and say again what incoherents he said when we discussed the issue of permits? Imagine, there is an amendment with an editorial report that says that the spectrum is limited and Mr.Mitsotakis has to go up this evening at this Step and say exactly the same thing he said in 2016, that the spectrum is unlimited and we have to give 24 licenses! Remembrance! Finally, the government introduces so many amendments. We have tabled a number of amendments, too. We have tabled one which concerns the lignite regions and their capacity to fall under development law. Tell us what to say to these people, because they are neither public-private nor television-station owners.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u236	Minister, you have the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. The limited range, when you invoked it, Mr Pappa, was for another reason. It was about what licenses and how many permits you could give. We are talking here about an extension in relation to whether they can emit formal or high-definition. And that is, as you well know, why you have made Minister and you have certainly discussed all these issues with the relevant departments and the Ministry of Digital Governance and with the EBT specific geographical areas. The specific geographical areas may be in the Cyclades, Dodecanese and somewhere in Kefalonia. For these three regions we may have to go beyond the prolongation and only for them. The point is that we are putting a framework in which neither the consumer nor the consumer can be punished, nor can it be subject to buying new decoders and new televisions, when they do not need them until 2021, and secondly, to share the necessary investment programme of the providers for modernisation so that they can invest there. Another thing, therefore, is that the spectrum compared to the four licenses of pan-Hellenic stations or more, those who were then invoking on the basis of the relevant studies invoked, and that the whole system can be switched from formal clarity to high clarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u238	Invite the second digital dividend of a limited range.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u239	No dialogue. I will refer you to Mr. Triantafylides, Mr. Pappa. Mr. Katrinis has the floor from the Change Movement, strictly for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say that Mr Economou has truly made a commendable and plausible effort as majority rapporteur to support this bill, and he is quite frank when he speaks of extensive legislation. In fact, it is extensive legislation and in the 213 articles of the original draft law, within less than twenty-four hours, a forty-one articles were added to six ministerial and one parliamentary amendment. And until the meeting is over, no one knows what else holds us. Uke number in a truly malpractice of misdemeanor. In fact, Mr Pappas has also been mentioned, and the point is correct. Chamber of Economics: One month before the elections without an official request from the Chambers for an extension of their term of office, the Government comes and legislates and changes the terms and duration of the institutions elected in less than one month. That's unprecedented. I also look forward with interest to the support of the amendment which has been tabled lately this morning, which I think should make it clear that there are now limits of healthy competition between the companies for which the logic of the arrangement exists. So that there are no unequal rules, then, to clarify whether fines have been paid and, anyway, what the Ministry's directions are in this direction. Mr. Georgiadis yesterday gave us a lesson in capitalism. Of course, I do not know if he read a recent article on a conference that was held by BLOOMBERG, a round table of entrepreneurs, where CEOs of the largest American companies said their companies now take serious account of their employees, suppliers and communities. They referred to a range of initiatives and actions aimed at better rewarding employees on the one hand and, of course, reducing the burden on the environment on the other. In this bill, the only employees best paid are the presidents and advisors of the agencies that fall under the supreme body that, on your own initiative and legalisation, will receive salaries of over 7000 euros and the directors of the political offices of your Ministries. Golden Visa. He also said Mr. Georgiadis was very positive. That's right. But he did not tell us what he intends to do when the Chinese in their large majority who buy real estate resale them. There must be a commitment that by obtaining the residence permit, if they resold these properties, they are obliged to buy back a real estate. I do not know whether this is the development and investment, which Mr Georgiadis, the real estate market, or Mr Zavos, who, at the IMF meeting, said he was delighted to see that investors would invest in Hercules, that is to say, the non-performing loans we all know that they have as a mortgage and even want a permanent institutional framework guaranteed by the Government of New Democracy. I asked Mr Georgiadis what a sign of development is the management of the migration flows he has incorporated into the National Development Plan. We didn't get any answers. I don't know, because he sprayed me yesterday on the subject of archaeology and the sixty-day deadline, if she has agreed with Mrs Mendoni on that or if she says so to a development star. However, I must note that Mr Georgiadis spoke about all of the people, apart from the major issue of bank debits. I want to believe that his absence from the Chamber is justified by the planned meeting that the Prime Minister has with the bank leaders. However, Mr Georgiadis himself, who reappointed this Chamber and did not speak a second on this matter, despite the fact that he was raised by many of Parliament's wings, despite the fact that we tabled an amendment, went to the “RISK AND MANAGEMENT AND COMPLAINT FORUM” conference and says that there is a feeling that the banks have made an agreement with each other. Of course, the bankers said, Mr Georgiadis, for me it will not be an easy target for anyone who wants to make populism and, of course, the bankers - while he said he would make a line of complaints, this is the government line of Mr Georgiadis, who is co-president, who will make a line of complaints about abuses - they have responded with cynicism that institutions are operating in a framework of free competition and there can be no political intervention on this issue. We therefore want to believe that the Prime Minister - because he has now gone to this level - will not remain in simple recommendations and insanity but will make it clear to the head of the banks who sets the rules in this place. And the rules in this place are set by the political leadership, by the House. That is why we are appealing to the collapsing Members, to all colleagues, to accept our amendment, so that the citizens can stop having this abusive policy of banks. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, too. We'll close this circle of speakers with Mr. Villardos from the Greek Solution. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, whom we owe for three minutes, is not here, as is Mr. Arsenis from Merra25. Mr. Villard, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u242	I'll finish my suggestion a little differently. In order for Greece, in our view, not only are development bills reached. Public investment must intervene in order to create demand and to follow the private sector. This is Caines's well-known recipe, which was certainly not left, but an economist with common sense. Evidently, it was not in favour of the public sector since it claimed that, although public investment should be increased in times of recession, at the same time, the public sector would have to leave in place of the private sector. We have not talked about what is missing from the development bill, such as, above all, public enterprises, for which there is no mention, as if they were indifferent to the development of our economy. They were not mentioned either in the debate on the preliminary draft budget, in which we stressed that the State's revenues should not only come from taxes but also from the profitability of its companies, through which taxes may and should be reduced. Moreover, investment or reforms that might be carried out in these enterprises to improve competitiveness and increase profitability increase GDP and reduce unemployment. They're boosting the private sector. One of these public enterprises we have asked to the relevant ministries without unfortunately getting any real answer to our fourteen questions is the Greek Vehicle Industry, ELVO, which, as we have heard, is in liquidation. This is a very important defence industry, but also a production of high value added, which our governments want to close. I'm going to put the question in the Minutes. We note here that the defence industries were created to support our national independence after the events in Cyprus and other national trials, such as ELVO in 1972, EBO in 1977, EBO in 1975 and others. So our governments want to close ELVO - and not only - at a time when Turkish provoking and aggression are at birth, so Greece needs as much as ever from its own armaments industries. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Of course, when the budget is reduced to just EUR 237 million in 2020 from EUR 423 million in 2019, while even remaining in the medium-term that has the approval of the Troika, it makes sense to indifference such enterprises. But even then, when programs are being discussed to upgrade the trucks of the Greek army and other vehicles, should ELVO not be used, which is deceived and will remain deaf, instead of considering the introduction of such vehicles from abroad? These are the same for other public enterprises - Greece has enough - so the first priority for a development project would be their proper exploitation, so as to contribute to public and wider security costs in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u243	Thank you. The Minister has the floor, Mr Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a very important bill for our country, a bill that, as a central idea, has to be made quick, immediate and rational improvements aimed at developing and supporting the real economy after ten years of a truly great crisis that has brought society to an end. In this light, as well as the issues relating to the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, urgent and important provisions which are necessary to improve the current framework have been incorporated into this draft law. I say improvement because the New Democracy has said so many times again, we here do not come to abolish and to break down everything. That's not our philosophy. On the contrary, we want to supplement, clarify, simplify, if you like, and make crucial contributions that solve serious problems that we have seen there are in practice. We're going to the articles we're interfering with. Article 81. We propose to simplify the conditions of Law 4412/2016 with regard to the conclusion of a public project contract, study and construction, the so-called project, which has been introduced in 2016. What's this procedure doing? The simplification of this procedure in existing law makes it more operational, while very specific conditions are laid down, such as the existence of approved environmental conditions, the regulation on studies - projects, etc. In this way, what do we seek to achieve? The faster promotion of required infrastructure at all levels of the country always in full harmony with the provisions of the European Union Law on Public Procurement. Article 82. We are aiming at modernising the institutional framework of concessions. This provision achieves two objectives at the same time. Firstly, we are speeding up procedures, which we all know is the big problem in major infrastructure projects and, secondly, I think we are doing something very important, we are ensuring transparency. In simple terms, what we predict for someone who does not deal with the issues of public works. We are reducing the required rate of expropriations to 50% and there is a need for the report of analytical archaeological documentation as well as for the implementation of at least 50% of its natural object in order to proceed with the signing of the concession and to run the project faster. I now come to Article 83 on public-private partnerships. Here too, you will allow me to say that we are simplifying the legal framework and simplifying it with respect for culture and, in particular, for the issues of antiquities. In particular, in order to achieve the construction work in the PPPs, it is foreseen that in the event of the discovery of antiquities during construction - and attention, only if the competent authority fails to comply with the time limits laid down to indicate how the work is continued and to ensure the protection of archaeological findings - will be dealt with with with with a realistic but also a very time-frame, what? The Directorates-General for Antiquities of Cultural Heritage and Restoration of the Ministry of Culture. How do we achieve this? We do so without prejudice to the constitutional provisions of the archaeological law, which we all have to respect, and without prejudice to the existing legislation of the Ministry of Culture, and with provision for the possibility of accelerating higher hierarchical institutions, with the aim of correct control and speeding up, however, the procedures, that is to say, we are trying to achieve absolute protection of our cultural heritage without delaying the necessary projects, which is happening in Greece over the last few years. I come to two other important provisions. The first is Article 157 and concerns the urgent treatment of static and technical issues in building infrastructure. As has been seen in many cases - and we have also lived in the Ministry - and especially since the earthquake of 19 July in Attica, there are public buildings which have extensive damage or shortcomings and various other related problems. In order to deal with them, therefore, in order to ensure that the space is safe for officials and citizens who enter them, direct action is needed which is not to be deferred and which is treated by this provision. Why? Because if those entities do not have a technical service, they may make themselves a programme contract and assign the task of a contracting authority to a technical consultant who fulfils the required technical competence criteria. Article 189 also covers the gaps created by the Presidential Decree, 72/2019 with regard to so-called NOTE. In practice, there are mainly transitional issues and until the adoption of an autonomous Presidential Decree to fully comply with the requirements of both our Union and our national legislation. Now we are going to go to Amendment No 64 and a special item No 14, which we signed with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Development. We extend the term of the administration of the TEI to four years, providing that the elections will take place in one day and clarify the purpose of the TEI, in order to carry out certification for accreditation and all its activities. To conclude, I would like here to take a little more time to document the need to vote for an amendment with a general number of 69 and a special 19 that we tabled this morning in this House. It is an amendment, which comes to do two very simple things: on the one hand, we are clarifying the existing legislative framework that it had adopted - and we think it was right to adopt - the previous government on points which were actually found to pose problems and on the other hand we are doing something that I think is necessary to be absolutely transparent, we are making the framework much more stringent than that of the previous government. I would remind you that the general framework of Law No.4389/2016 was as follows, that any undertaking which settles its cases in the Competition Committee is exempted from criminal and any other administrative sanctions. That's what the law you brought in 2016 said. However, the way in which part of this provision was formulated, and in particular Article 106 of the Act, created a series of doubts and misinterpretations which led, as the technical world knows, to a range of objections. What does that mean, practically? All projects were frozen in the future they could also be frozen because of a wording which, if you like, was not clear. This, as you can see, does not create a problem for the companies concerned alone, but also serious potential problems for the whole country. Large delays are the big issue we have in major infrastructure projects. It is what the European Commission is pulling us for, because in Greece the average means of carrying out a large, nationally important infrastructure project is almost twice as high as that in other countries of the European Union. We are therefore trying not to escalate such a crisis, not to have further delays. This is where we need to find ways to unlock the works and not to create more stumbling blocks. We also need to see how we can move on to the big projects that the place needs. That is why, with absolute respect for European law and also for the separation of powers, we are clarifying and clarifying things in full so that there is no misunderstanding. Firstly, such misinterpretation should never appear again in the future, a problem of interpretation in the provision we have had in the past. This will stop companies from having insecurity, those companies that want to subject themselves to the beneficial provisions of this law. At the same time, however, we are also doing something, which I believe is - you will allow me to say - quite innovative. We are introducing very strict measures for anyone who repeats the relevant infringements, which was not provided for in the SYRIZA Act of 2016. And say it in simple words. We can't make a company all the same violations and then come and settle her case like nothing's wrong. Oh, no. The first time, after you pay the fine, you can settle the civil, administrative and criminal proceedings. But if you're making a second violation again, you'll face serious sanctions. What are we talking about? If you fall back into the same infringement, then for six years it will not have the right of a company to participate in new major infrastructure projects. It will not be possible to participate in public procurement, it will not be possible to participate in concessions, and this will apply from the vote on this bill and from now on, without any retrospective force for the cases that are at the moment - and the technical world knows them - they are before the Skopje, because we do not interfere with the work of justice retrospectively, we do not bring any changes that have retrospective power, we do not go back to the clock and do not make political interventions that are morally and constitutionally unacceptable. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] With the amendment, therefore, we are faced with a problem that has created, despite the good intentions of the previous government, the legal framework. We're clearing up and clarifying once and for all, from now on, how things will get, how we tighten up the law and set clean rules for everyone. Overall, with the bill under discussion, what we are trying to achieve and we will succeed is to boost our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor from SYRIZA for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed the imaginable title of the bill that we are discussing: 'I invest in Greece'. It is the government's duty to know that investment in our country must be to invest in its people, to invest in workers, who have been so troubled by the crisis and the memoranda, to invest in the productive forces of the country. And the Minister of Finance also has to explain how, while seeking to increase consumption, it reduces the wages of the workers in the country with this plan. The increase in demand and consumption is linked to an increase in wages and not to a reduction in wages. Ladies and gentlemen, with the new anti-development bill the New Democracy Government reveals its plan for euphemism. It is based on the complete dissolution of industrial relations and rights. Its vision of development is to serve the few, its own people, is to restore the so-called regularity of the Memorandum of Understanding. It seeks the cancellation of the acquired and restorations to the employment rights achieved by SYRIZA's governance. It follows from the proposed provisions and the explanatory statement that the Government of New Democracy also applies the neoliberal doctrine of the degradation and the work of labour and environmental legislation, i.e. applying the replacement of the ‘Rule of Law’ by ‘Law’ to the ‘Law shopping’ service, as allegedly best practices of total market competition require. The substantial abolition of collective bargaining, the resulting wage reductions, the annulment of the referral to arbitration for workers' unions and the attempt to manipulate them are the core of the bill. But instead of coming as an independent bill, as it was due, and discussing it properly, the government is making a stubborn camouflage, hoping that it will not cause the justified reactions. But it won't succeed. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the growth that the New Democracy wants is a growth that is generated by the recession, unemployment and the crisis. The plan condenses all those neoliberal recipes of the Memorandum, those that led us to bankruptcy, those that led us to a loss of 25% of GDP, led us to the deregulation of labour relations and the dismantling of the social state. After all, similar practices in the recent past of your own governance have not led to increased investment, have not led to improved growth, on the contrary, have led to the increase in unemployment. In particular, your proposal abolishes the principle of more favourable regulation, paving the way to arbitrary employers, causing lower wages and wages. Less rights than in pan-Hellenic sectoral contracts can be defined by local sectoral and operational contracts. This creates the misery of the Special Economic Zones. Less wages of up to 30% and distortion of competition will be the result of this political choice. It takes a long time for BSE. The New Democracy comes and legislates. It further abolishes, in substance, the expansion of sectoral collective labour agreements. The Minister will decide what collective agreements are generally binding, of course with opaque and diabetic criteria. The conditions are so strict and so difficult to prove that the exception becomes the rule. The right to unilateral referral to arbitration is also suffocated. Workers will claim sectoral contracts, employers will refuse and will have no solution to the dispute. Unprotected workers, i.e. applying the law of the mighty in all his majesty. And all this, while the Council of State recently stated that it is unconstitutional to abolish unilateral referral to arbitration. Unfortunately, it is not just what you enter with the proposed provisions. The bill is wasteful, because it channels funds to non-government sectors do not create stable and well-paid jobs. It is characterised by opaqueness, because it enables the Minister to issue licences without any control. It is characterized by immunity, because it deviates from environmental legislation, undermines the environment, threatens the ecosystem and the koruna...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u247	Thirty more seconds, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u248	Just a moment, Mr President, please. In particular, it is worth mentioning that under Article 179, you are privatising basic local government actions. You give contractors critical services, without a majority of municipal councils, without documentation on the inability of the municipalities to provide these services on their own. You do not care about the burden of the municipality's budget and the citizens' finals. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I must conclude by saying that as a neoliberal government you are deciding to step up your attack on the world of work and to introduce regulations that would be jealous of even the International Monetary Fund. SYRIZA will stand alongside the workers, next to the middle and small entrepreneurship. It will defend the conquests of our people, along with the productive forces of the country, with those who realize that growth can only be achieved with respect for labour relations, workers and the social state. We are with all the citizens who know that decent wages, decent working conditions and environmental protection are the only choices if we want to live in a fairer, more human world. It is a prerequisite for fair, integrated and sustainable development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, thirty-three students and schoolchildren and three teachers from the Kalavryta High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u250	Mr President, I should just like to say for the House that there are two amendments tabled by the Members of the First Piraeus of the New Democracy. The first relates to an extension until the completion of the refreshment on the coastal front of the Municipality of Aegina and the second extension until the completion of the refreshment in Microlimano. For Microlimano, it is the amendment with a general number of 65 and a special 15, and for Aegina it is the amendment with a general number of 70 and a special 20 and they are signed by all the Members of the New Democracy, namely Mr Katsafados, Mr Mela, Mr Manolakos, Mrs Dunia and Mr Boutsicakis. Both amendments as they have been incorporated, accepted and form part of the bill. Please, for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u251	To be submitted to the Minutes. [[At this point the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis submits for the minutes the above-mentioned amendments - additions, which read as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] To enter pages 310-311
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u252	Mrs Agathopoulos from SYRIZA has the floor for five minutes and then Mr Vassiliadis is from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. As the bill seems to grow as the time passes. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it seems that the bill you brought to plenary today, with the imaginable title: "I invest in Greece and other provisions", with the seven hundred pages, which I do not know how many have arrived now, but with a lot of provisions on every science, seems to be how much you have reminiscent of the times of the memorials. When the bills were already set, they were drafted outside government offices. Something like this, even yesterday, said Mr. Georgiadis about this bill, as he said that you were drafted long before the New Democracy took over. They therefore come with stitching provisions for various ministries and minimum consultation. We're running today to make time. It was then the troika and the International Monetary Fund, which brought them, now you're bringing them yourself. Of course, in order not to be unfair, Mr. Georgiadis never renounced the Memorandum Reforms. He was barely one of their fans. For all of us, however, the serious thing is that this bill does not look like the memorials only in its volume and in its procedure with which it comes in Parliament, but also in its provisions, and I shall refer in particular to the provisions relating to labour. I would also like to say another parameter for which Mr Brutsi is anxiously awaited from the day you took up the government, but also from the Ministry of Labour and from the entire Government and the Ministry of Labour he has kept a fisherman's silence. I am talking about the taking over of the gender equality portfolio and the movement of the General Secretariat of Equality and the TBR from the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Labour. On the contrary, with the government that has not made any mention of this change, many actors and the Secretary-General themselves - eight in the number of all parties - have received communications against this move. The Minister for Labour has not heard it say a word about gender equality. He may have forgotten that he has assumed that responsibility, since you have changed the title - Family Policy and Gender Equality - he has forgotten to give responsibilities so far. Nevertheless, it is the only one that has been placed and said that, for your own government, gender equality comes primarily through equality in work and employment, to which the current government will pay particular attention. Yes, sir! Three months have passed, but we have not heard a half the talk about how you intend to promote equality between men and women in the labour market and thus in the other sectors. All this, along with the provisions of this draft law on the elasticisation of labour relations, which in nothing differs from those of the second Memorandum, makes half of the population - women, namely - a little more concerned than everyone else. This is because we do not want to go back to the time of the crisis, where we know very well that the crisis, but also the policies implemented in the years of austerity, have hit women and young people in particular. The figures from previous years show us that the economic crisis in Greece has interrupted and reversed the progress in the labour market made by women over the past three decades, having achieved high rates of full and stable employment and achieved greater continuity in their working life. The female unemployment rate hit a record in 2013, over your days, i.e. 32%, increased compared to men who were around 24% in the same period. At these very high rates, alone in Europe, as Mr Brutsi said yesterday, we were brought back by the memorial policies that you want to bring back today. The elastic employment relationships and the reduction in wages that would bring growth. Growth did not come with them, but it came with an increase in wages, as the SYRIZA government in practice has shown, while wage growth has reduced by nine points, and, in fact, not as you have falsely claimed at times, sending our young people abroad, but creating more than four hundred and fifty thousand new jobs. Women's unemployment has also declined from 32% to 20% and this has not happened at all. It has been done within a development model, which has given importance to knowledge, innovation, the social economy, products and services of high added value, areas that favour women's work and entrepreneurship. Is there anything you can tell us about female entrepreneurship in general, Mr. Georgiadis? It would be very interesting. In addition, the SYRIZA programme, as well as the increased budgets for welfare and daycare facilities, and also indirect measures to facilitate women. These were pro-development policies for us. They have not been ideological, because they have actually worked in the past years and have, contrary to flexible working relationships, brought about the abolition of collective agreements and the abolition of the compulsory application of them, but also the half-measures that you are currently bringing about undeclared work. So we expect the Ministry of Labour and your Government to bring legislation in the next few years with a really friendly figure and indeed with positive measures and actions in favour of women's employment and entrepreneurship. The glorious scope is the specialization of the provisions of Law 4604/18 on the essential equality of friends, in particular Articles 10 and 21 and 24 on gender mainstreaming in private life and employment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will repeat something Mrs Ahtsioglou said before, that it is not possible for working people to legislate in secret, within other bills. These are very important issues which we must develop at every angle. We therefore look forward to seeing your design for equality, and in particular for employment, which certainly existed before it became a government, otherwise the exaggerated zeal and the movement of the General Secretariat of Equality from the Home Office at work at midnight on the next election day, on 8 July, will not be explained.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mrs Agathopoulos. You've reached seven and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u255	We cannot understand the silence of fish from then on for the lack of competence to the new Secretary-General for Family and Gender Equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, Mr. Logiadis, has asked for the floor for three minutes. Then Mr Vassiliade will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, it is Mr Vassiliou's turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Loyadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u259	Thank you very much. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with regret and indignation, I confessed that I was informed that a moment ago in the student demonstration, which takes place just outside our House, the young student was injured by a sparkle-shine grenade. In fact, the student happens to be a member of the youth of Mera25, taking part in the protest against the blocking of our party. I want to denounce the extreme repressive tactics of the Government and the Ministry of Civil Protection - what kind of protection is that? - confronting the peaceful protests of our students against the abolition of asylum and the covert privatization of higher education with the unacceptable equalisation of private college qualifications with our higher education institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, we must stop horrificly dealing with our youth. Youth doesn't want repression, but perspective and vision. I think it is worth seeing the Joker project. Very soon I shall refer to the bill, which is general and vague. It is huge and with too many windows and devices that will be applied at once. I'm an investor, too. It's so big a bill, not much euphoria. It says nothing about investment, about small businesses, 97.2% of which have fewer than nine employees. He says nothing about rural investment, which is the backbone of the economy. It only mentions strategic investments. He says nothing about creating networks. Whatever investments we do, if we do not have distribution networks for our products, whether in tourism or in agricultural products, or elsewhere, we will not fruition the value of our products. The bill says about collective bargaining. Because I'm an employer at the end of the day, my employees ask me about what lives in our pockets, beyond wages. There are still overtaxation, the cost of life, the quality of safety, health and education, which we must pay ourselves. The bill doesn't tell us how to get away from enhanced supervision. Reinforced supervision is the words mentioned by the Minister of Finance about the situation we are in. This bill accepts the existence of laws with retroactive effect. He doesn't tell us anything about public investment, about self-evident. As a member of Heraklion, I would like to stress that Heraklion airport has no toilets, as well as that the Heraklion industrial area has no water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. Mr Kelles, the Parliamentary Representatives, like the Ministers when they speak, are ahead of them. Because Mr. Logiadis had asked me for three minutes, he took the floor. In fact, he talked for two minutes. Mr. Vasiliadis will take the floor and then Mr. Vassiliadis, Mr. Kelles. Mr Vasiliade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has been tested for a disproportionate time after the 2009 debt crisis. The protracted recession has led to a large reduction in income, closure of businesses and job losses, forced migration of young people to find jobs. My generation, unfortunately, has passed this test, just as it was called upon to come out on the labour market, invest, attempt, and create. I am very pleased, therefore, that today, ten years later, we are discussing a genuinely development draft law, a draft law, which, in my opinion, focuses on the fundamental issue that makes it difficult to develop the Greek economy, the relations that govern the triangle of workers - business. We're used to dealing with these relationships as competition relationships. Each of the three pillars of the economy traditionally tried to impose on the other two, not with deceit and usually unconscious, but that is the reality. However, if we learned one thing in the years of the crisis, that is that we all want and need growth: both the state and the businesses and, of course, the workers. The philosophy of the draft law we are debating today is that these three pillars must be mutually supported and targeted. And let me be specific. With regard to relations between the State and business, most of the draft law focuses on simplifying procedures and reducing bureaucracy for investment and new businesses, without changing terms and conditions. The abolition, for example, of nuisance rates, which were already an outdated process, exempts manufacturing companies from an unnecessary burden. And this is important, ladies and gentlemen, especially in areas such as Pella, which have a significant processing activity. The single digital map is being created, a quite ambitious and certainly useful tool in the hands of any citizen, who finally exploits, let me say, new technologies and open data, not only for information and information, but also for the implementation of investments, as it will also be binding on the administration. Electronic documents are another example of facilitating relations between the state and companies by exploiting new technologies. The possibility of entrusting private auditors to evaluate and monitor the implementation of investment projects serves two objectives: on the one hand, it speeds up the process of investment, the size of which justifies the extra cost and, on the other, reduces the volume of cases that the State is finally called upon to control by its own means, thus serving the smaller investments or, if you like, those which want its control. And, of course, while maintaining the State's control role on both investment and auditors, it ensures legality by preventing it. With regard to relations between businesses and workers, the register of trade unions and employers' organisations is being established, which brings greater transparency and, ultimately, more democracy to the extremely important for the economic union. The age of wrestling of workers with the bosses has passed, ladies and gentlemen. The people of our generation know that well. If the business doesn't go well, the worker doesn't do well. If the workers are not happy, the company's course is not right. Businesses are the people who make up them, they are not impersonal entities. We therefore want more participation in the organisations, and this is also guaranteed by the optional electronic vote on the call for strikes. Strike is the right of all, not the right to exploit and blackmail from the few. With regard to relations between workers and state, I am pleased that this draft law is in the direction that New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis had set for more, good and stable jobs. By means of provisions to prevent undeclared work, the State takes the role it must play, the protection of workers and their income and not the merciful one. This draft law safeguards workers' rights and at the same time ensures more active involvement in the success of the company. To conclude, Mr President, the draft law: "I invest in Greece" attempts to intervene throughout the range of economic activity, with the aim of boosting economic activity as a whole, in favour of enterprises, workers, in favour of the public interest and not at the expense of one or the other. I therefore express my support for the National Representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Kelles from New Democracy has the floor. Then there will be Mr. Katsafandos and Mr. Bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this interministerial bill is another decisive step forward in order to bring about strong growth in the country, just as we had promised in the run-up to the elections. And because what we mean and act on our commitments, following the 22% reduction in HNVA, the improvement of 20 instalments, the reduction of tax rates, as provided for in the preliminary draft budget, the reduction of 40% in the energy and aesthetic upgrading of buildings, the Prime Minister yesterday made a few development but also a major announcement. VAT on construction has been suspended for three years since 2006. This measure will also increase the demand for new dwellings, increase employment and strengthen the income of dozens of jobs associated with construction. These are development measures, ladies and gentlemen, economic measures, together with the reforms promoted by this bill. The first part of the bill ensures a number of critical conditions for attracting investment, and in particular for the development of the secondary sector. In particular, the Single Digital Charter and the amendment of the provisions on economic activity ensure both the necessary investment information and the protection of the natural and cultural environment and the harmonisation of legislation in relation to the licensing procedures of enterprises. Moreover, the extension of the building coefficient in conjunction with the provisions on business parks, industrial activities and environmental conditions constitute targeted legislative interventions to rehearse industry. Significant areas of digital governance are also being carried out. The national simplification programme of procedures to be set up under the high supervision of the Prime Minister, the establishment of the bureaucracy observatory and the codification of administrative procedures and documents, as well as the establishment of the Single Digital Portal of Public Administration, deepen the quality of the services provided to citizens and businesses. Are it not positive, ladies and gentlemen, to develop modern technologies in administrative justice? From 1 January 2021 compulsory electronic lodgement and service to the administrative courts, the introduction of digital codification and the introduction of teleconferencing are not reforms which lead us to a new era? At the same time, this draft law contains provisions that are particularly critical for both the labour market and the social state. First of all, we promote full employment and we fight undeclared work and tax evasion, while favouring collective agreements and protecting jobs in enterprises, which are objectively facing serious financial problems. Arrangements are also very critical in order to tackle the unacceptable phenomenon of outstanding pensions. A million fifty-nine thousand pensions are pending, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. With the power to adopt pension decisions by the former institutions currently belonging to the ECA, the Ministry considers that the time to issue pensions will be shortened by at least two months. A special contribution to the growth potential of our economic policy has been made by the Hellenic Investment and External Trade Company. Its reorganization is expected to contribute both to attracting direct investment and promoting our exports. Finally, among the other issues covered by this bill, I would like to refer to the provisions of the Ministry of Education. We abolish the unjustified system of introduction to higher education with or without examinations and return to all schools, thus restoring their prestige and uniform treatment. Furthermore, it improves the functioning of the pilot and experimental schools, while speeding up the process of examining outstanding applications for recognition of professional qualifications by the former GSP holding thousands of graduates trapped. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Why, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u264	You're not wronged, Mr. Kelles. I left the clock, ran until eight minutes. But finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u265	I'll finish anyway. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill not only establishes strong foundations for investment and for the creation of a friendly environment for healthy entrepreneurs, but is added to the foundations set by our Government for the construction of a modern state, law, reliable and social that is successfully facing the challenges of the twenty-first century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, too. Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandos from New Democracy followed by Mr. Bored by SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, these two days at the National Representation, we are not discussing a simple bill that comes to solve problems of the past, a bill that tries to exacerbate the Greek economy. It is a bill, which is trying to boost the growth of the economy, which is necessary, in order to be able to reduce taxes, which is necessary to enable young people to find new and well-paid jobs and not to leave abroad. But I am really surprised, ladies and gentlemen, because I have been following this debate for two days and I see colleagues who are doing what they are in another country. All of us, ladies and gentlemen, have examples from our constituencies of investment projects, which, unfortunately, have put down and lost jobs, due to the bureaucracy and improperness of the Greek state. All of us, ladies and gentlemen, know that there are strategic investments, which have never been implemented, which could increase the national wealth of the country. And of course the numbers speak for themselves. For 2018, SYRIZA's colleagues, business investments amounted to 6% of GDP, when the average European Union of twenty-eight states was 13%. And here comes this bill to put order, to be able to solve problems, to solve the Gordian bond of bureaucracy, overlapping. Seventeen Ministers and Undersecretaries cooperated so that this bill could come. So much was involved, so much were the overlapping of responsibilities, where in the end no one took responsibility, which it should have. Yesterday I was with the Mayor of Hydra, for example, to deal with a huge waste problem, and the EDNA blamed archaeology, that archaeology has not done the necessary study and archaeology in EDNA that EDNA has not done the necessary study. But unfortunately, what we are doing is losing time, money and jobs. That is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. We do not believe that we have any more time, that Greek youth is not entitled to lose any more jobs, which is why we bring this bill, which is why we are simplifying procedures. Who can deny that the Digital Charter is not in the right direction so that all the spatial data can be available so that every businessman can know what investment and how long he can do? Who can say that the observatory against bureaucracy is not in the right direction so that we can deal with the problems that arise on time? Who can say, ladies and gentlemen, that the new procedure with which GFCM will proceed for all types of companies to be licensed, speeding up the assessment of investment files in forty-five days, environmental permits in thirty days, easier business placement in modern business parks and moving the country to 5G is not in the right direction? These were things that unfortunately should have been done for decades, but we, as far as I see in this Chamber, still have not solved basic problems, fundamental issues, basic concepts. We cannot demonize the business, ladies and gentlemen. We must understand that if a state's aim is the welfare of its citizens, it will only come through growth and growth means investment and development, ladies and gentlemen, not to characterise any investor, any businessman as an economic criminal, as a backbone, as a man who is our class opponent. No, ladies and gentlemen. We do not have the right to do this to the Greeks who have been afflicted for ten years by this crisis, against all those who have been alienated from their homeland. I heard some people smiling for small, big, bigger interests. This bill came, not to serve small or larger interests, came for the major and the important one, and that is the development of the country, its economic development, and the welfare of all citizens. This is the effort of the New Democracy Government. And in this effort we invite all of us to join together. And mistakes will be made and omissions will be made. Let this be the beginning at last. Let it become the right start, and here we are to look at and correct our mistakes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Bored by SYRIZA, followed by Mr. Akiupis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u269	Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has electionally developed a 'toxic' account, the basis of which was the incrimination of its opponents' policy, not just in the sense of disagreement 'I disagree, because what you are doing is wrong, is dangerous or anything else', but that you are 'you are lying'. When did he do that? When she made out the great lie, a historical lie with "capital" on the issue of the Prespecies Agreement. Some people now may be undermining and saying after the election that 'we did our job, we won the elections'. But is that all? Now that the elections have taken place, the truth has been revealed. Revealed where the truth is and where the lie is. What does the government do in the face of developments, when the geopolitical 'tensional plates' are shaking, or when we have developments in our region? Allow me to say that "sea-eagle" follows developments as a spectator in a project, as a free ticket spectator. And he doesn't have the risk of doing what happened with "Joker" getting into the movie and getting her out. So I say, with regard to developments in our region, it is the country's chance to move forward, take the initiative in an extroverted development process. For growth is not to come to this step and to call "development, development, oh, development". The question is what policy you have, which, let me say, must be holistic and not take a representative of a successful company and put him as Minister of State, as this government has done on board. And he did it over and above the boundary of Trump's movements. I'm not just talking about Trump's ideological stigma, but about having another citizen. Here we are at the edge of the civilization. It's outside, not from the historically upheavals in the country, but from the New Democracy tradition itself. This is the first time that, in my opinion, has no political legitimacy and moves to the limits of the constitution: to take the representatives of successful companies - if you want me to tell you names, I will tell you - and make them ministers. With this solution you are not facing the problem of investment. That is what I mean, Mr Georgiadis. The fact that I showed the Minister does not mean that I implyed him. Mr Georgiadis, after the elections the individual subjects took another character. Do you know who? The creation of a false "glass world", based on a sweeping propaganda mechanism, unprecedented for the country's data. What does this 'glass world' involve? I'll tell you. There are provisions on work. Mr Brutsis says it's for the benefit of the workers, and it's obvious that they lead to wage squeezing. And I am not saying that, in fact, SYRIZA, Mr Lebanese, a Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, from this step by step, saying that you do not know the real causes of bankruptcy, which, as he says, are - the increase in wages from borrowers. You're neither an economist nor I. If we were, wouldn't we tear our degrees, Mr. Georgiadis? So, the public debt crisis and bankruptcy due to private sector wages? Is that okay? It's not standing, Mr. Georgiadis. The 'glass world', Mr Georgiadis, also includes this. You said yesterday what you said about the Prime Minister and Mr Polakis. You went out on a channel at night and said: 'I said it because they blame me'. 'Bosles' of Mr Georgiadis said. I claim, on the basis of what you said at night, that the 'bomb' - communication'strong', I would say - broke into your hands. But he's going through the opposite. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I didn't say that to create a personal issue. You're a minister. When you weren't a minister, you were talking underneath. You've always lifted your hand. Now you're Minister. There's nothing personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u270	Now I can talk whenever I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u271	There are positive interventions in the bill. We recognize that. In the area where we can propose something so that these improvements can become even more advanced, we are doing so. For example, we have proposed an amendment to Mr Karamanlis and possibly accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u272	Monsieur Baroness, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u273	Mr Karamanlis, I will say where our amendment is aimed. To speed up procedures, while defending public interests - we can do this - to avoid compensation. But I would like to say - and I will end - that compensation is not just avoided by legislative initiatives. Compensation is also a matter of political will and initiatives. For example, Mr. Mitsotakis went to Thessaloniki the day before yesterday and reiterated what you said. Because you said you didn't come to abolish. But you abolished everything that has happened on the metro of Thessaloniki. I don't know what you're going to do in Patras tower after all. You expressed a desire to change this as well as on the northern axis of Crete. But I come back to the subject of the subway. Did you read, Minister, Mr. Karamanlis, the company's metro announcement? You read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u274	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u275	You'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u276	You read it. That is where it expressly refers to the right to compensation. Rats! And the compensation's not five-digit, it's hundreds of millions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u277	Monsieur Baroness, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u278	I shall conclude, Mr President. Who are we addressing? The uninformed? The one who's probably going to understand it after the compensation has been paid? I don't have any more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, too. Mr Karamanlis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u280	I do not take the floor on staff, I just want to answer Mr Bored for his amendment. Monsieur Baroness, we're not committed. We said we saw it positively. The services will examine it and we will answer it. For this House to know, it is an amendment, which you have a basis on which to say, you are simply putting a safety net so that the Public Works Council can approve this procedure. The agencies will examine it and we will see whether or not we are going to accept it. But you have also referred to a number of things that will allow me to give you an answer. Patras tower, Mr Vartenene, found your party ready for auction. You cut this project to make a specific contractor and publisher. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And because some in your party are talking about names and addresses, the name of this contractor is Mr. Kalogeritsa, who you flew like a "struck lemon gum" when you didn't do your job. What did we do? We have come on the ground and have seen that this man and this company cannot deal with the project. So whether this work has been delayed you will allow me to say that it has a name. We are now in contact with Mrs Verstagen to see solutions and not to answer the project in '23, because that is not what we have said to the people of Achaia and Elias, that if the project is not over by '23, then we will pay it with our own resources. The second thing I want to say is in relation to the Thessaloniki subway. I'm sorry, but I don't want to politicize this. I will say one thing: the arrogant compensation you referred to was fined on your own days and paid. On your own days you were awarded more than two hundred million to the contractors, on your own days with the restart you gave seven hundred fifty million to the contractors to finish the motorway, but let us leave yesterday. Let's see what's going on today. Let this cohort stop, which I think is not helping major infrastructure projects. So let's see what you did at Venizelou Station. As I said in my speech, like others in the New Democracy, where we see something that has been done correctly, we welcome it and continue it. This is how modern European states work. The public's all the time. The Minister does not change, the government does, and after that, "Hello". I see some members of the opposition laugh. On the subway, dear, you didn't do anything. You've been funny. Venizelos Station? You went to 2017, you changed the decision while you had the opposite decision of the S.H.E. And you finally changed the decision, it took you two years to decide what to do and two years later you had done nothing. Well, mockery and virtual reality have a limit. In fact, the rest of the metro project proceeded, so what did you do? The self-evident thing. After he was blocked and unlocked, the play went on. Shall we say something simple and agree? I am also at your disposal and any Member of Parliament to sit down and work out what the works of the next 15 years are with a serious national plan and say that they will be done whether they are the government of one party or the other party and not to change and "writing". You changed Patras to tower, you changed the subway. So, at the moment, we want to agree on the basics. As for the BOAK, don't say that again, because I see Mr. Voloudakis coming in. The whole technical world of the country laughs. You went to make a call for interest without study, without engraving, with nothing. Four and a half years you have been mocking the people of Crete. And that's where we'll have a solution, and that's where we'll have a solution...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u281	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u282	For four and a half years, my dear, what have you done? In three months, we have the magic wand and you want to do everything? For four and a half years, what have you been doing in Crete? Aren't you ashamed to mock the Cretan people that in three months the government wanted to find a solution?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u283	You're mocking him! Stop murmuring!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u284	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u285	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u286	You're welcome. Minister, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u287	The substance is this: stop cheap political confrontation. There's a limit to lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u288	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u289	Mr. Baroness, there is no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u290	There's too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u291	Is there any staff? Here, you have the floor for just one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Karamanlis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u293	Mr Baroness, you are addressing the Bureau. Please. The Minister will hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, Mr Karamanlis flew the communal straddles and retired to the seat. Mr. Karamanlis, to get this over with, you're bothered by every Kallagrica. He's out. Why don't you pick the next one, as you're under obligation?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u295	You don't know the issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u296	Why don't you do it? The rest of the five contractors, why are you paying the compensation?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u297	What does the staff consist of, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, but that is not the case, Mr Buquoore. Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u299	Mr President, we have to welcome...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u300	That is, however, a political debate. I beg your pardon, but this is not how the political debate is being held.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u301	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u302	There wasn't any personal. Please. There are speakers from the SYRIZA after you can advise them to say some things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u303	I have no objections to the Minister, and I do not object to dialogue if he wants dialogue. First of all, Mr Karamanlis, after four to five decades...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u304	That's not how it works, Mr. Barrett. Please. This is not the case in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u305	Mr. President, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u306	We're just creating...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u307	After four to five decades welcoming Mr Karamanlis and Crete among others, because he came here and shakes the finger for what happened in four years. Previously on Forty, what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u308	Yes, sir. Good. Mr. Theodorikos, whenever you want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u309	After that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u310	After Mr. Cape? Yes, sir. Mr. Capus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin by saying that the attitude of counter-population to this plan has a huge - I would say - historical interest, of course, with a negative sign. It is indeed surprising that the opposition is criticising unsubstantiatedly against a bill that seeks to increase the competitiveness of the country and thus its investment prospects to an unprecedented extent. It is a bill that favours entrepreneurship and undeniably strengthens the middle-class, opening tens of thousands of jobs. This is the question of what development has been in the past four and a half years. Ladies and gentlemen, the social status of the bill under discussion is evident. In fact, the government seeks to create suitable investment ground, but at the same time it combats undeclared and undeclared work, while saving thousands of businesses from the paddock. The following question arises: What development has come from your own development bills and six days now you are denounced, but have you not tabled a single proposal? As far as I come from Zakynthos, I will tell you what development work you have done in the past few years. Four pillars, lights at the national stage of Zakynthos, but unfortunately a group we had in the second category fell into the local area. That was your development plan. That's what I saw, at least as a congressman on my island. We are now going to the important and partial issues of the bill. Greece has always been a country wishing to meet foreign capital was considered by the international market. This is why the draft law is being tabled primarily aims at the worded, but also at the immediate removal of the various investment barriers, always on the basis of the protection of workers, whether they relate to issues that are licensed or environmentally related to employment issues. I will start by focusing on the creation of the Single Digital Charter, which allows anyone concerned to have clear and comprehensive information on the economic activity that is permitted at any point in the country, thus shrinking the bureaucratic processes. Furthermore, the creation of entrepreneurship parks should be underlined, which will offer serious benefits to established businesses, but also ensure the development of surrounding areas, protecting the environment to a greater extent. Furthermore, with the establishment of the National Infrastructural Register and the Written Observation Observatory, the Government is now actively proving its commitment to deep and radical changes, aimed at bringing the country back to the international market as a calculated force. Many have heard of the abolition of nuisance rates. This draft law on the subject seeks to speed up the licensing procedures, which, of course, helps to speed up investment, but without overlooking the protection of the environment. Environmental audits will continue to take place and will continue to be more intense. So the environment does not come into second degree. In the second degree, the bureaucracy and introverticity that repulses investment capital come into play. With regard to the awarding of two and a half thousand portfolios of investment projects that have been pending for private auditing companies, which will be responsible for assessing and monitoring them, any objection on the part of the Anti-Population side makes no sense, since the bill makes it clear that the State maintains and exercises its control role at a later date. Therefore, the investment process is speeding up with greater security and impartiality, since none of the large multinational audit firms could act discriminatoryly or carry out any cooking, thereby jeopardising its investment capital and its international reputation. But let's see where we're disagreeing. A great deal of controversy is in this bill, working and insurance regulations. It should be understood that the investment interest is multidimensional, ladies and gentlemen, that is to say the investor will carry out a thorough review of all factors which will in any way affect his investment, both in the short term and in the long term. On the other hand, the Government must ensure the position and rights of workers and also protect them as vulnerable parties from any abuses and abuses of employers' behaviour. So it is rather innovative and certainly useful to include regulations and provisions relating to employment and insurance in a draft law such as this under discussion. After all, a comprehensive and clear agenda is created which gives the investor an integrated picture, which concerns all the issues, which he will after all seek out for himself before he invests. In other words, we are saving him time to give him more incentive to invest. With regard to the independence of collective bargaining and the opt-out issue, it should be made quite clear that this provision only concerns companies which have proven themselves - and I stress it - are facing significant economic problems, which is what is restrictively defined in the law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in thirty seconds. Going to the burning issue of the Register of Trade Unions of Workers and Employers' Organisations, first of all, talking from the Antipolitics for Fingers in 2019 is at least naive - if not outdated - and yet unscrupulous. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has never mentioned a nominal registration of natural persons or whatever. And if the government wanted, it could not propose such a regulation, since by joining the Greek legal order of Regulation No 679/2016 as well as Directive 680/2016/EU, the country is committed to complying with the General Privacy Regulation. Therefore any relevant argument concerning the registration of persons is unfounded. On the contrary, with the relevant regulation, the Government seeks to achieve the transparency and the optimum functioning of social partners' organisations, thereby strengthening trade unionism as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u312	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u313	I shall conclude, Mr President, although I have left enough of what I wanted to say. In conclusion, I would like to stress that, from Zakynthos, a place that owns the part of the lion of the local economy, I fully understand that the most fundamental principle of economic reality is that of 'adjustment or extinction'. And at the moment the economy is calling on us to stand up to the circumstances so that the country can regain its competitiveness. You're going to tell me: Do you have to watch the cheques of the economy unnecessarily and impulsively? No, it's the answer. Nobody ignores the problems of the capitalist economy. That is why the government proposes a regulatory framework, which in the long term aims at sustainable and beneficial coexistence of all economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u314	Thank you, Mr. Cape. However, I would like to say that it is advisable to gather there in Zakynthos to upload the team, because, when we say "Mass of Politics" a minister or another, we do not mean that it is the real Messie. With that logic, don't expect anyone to score! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and three educational sessions since the 9th Patras High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Theodorikos, Minister for the Interior, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u315	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to start with a subject that is not included in the bill under discussion, but is a major one, as it concerns hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens. After many discussions and consultations, Parliament's parties found the basis for an agreement, as you know, on which the bill will be launched, which will determine how they are facilitated to vote for Greek citizens who live abroad from the country in which they live. [[Applause from the New Democracy and the Change Movement]] This is a positive response to the country's political system in a request for decades, since, if this agreement had not been reached, no Greek foreigner could vote from the country in which he resides either in the next elections or in the next and so on. We consider it incomprehensible for so many decades that there has been the constitutional prediction that Greeks abroad can vote abroad, that the parties cannot agree on the obvious and that, in practice, the right to vote so many years should only be exercised by those privileged by our compatriots who were able to afford or at ease of time to come to Greece to vote in the parliamentary elections. I would like to say honestly that the agreement is a product of compromise, to which all the political parties contributing to this agreement have participated, in order to find a common place, as ratification of the relevant bill required the approval of two hundred MPs. I also want to see our compatriots listening from abroad making it clear that obviously those who do not fall under this agreement - but those who are very few - do not lose their right to vote in the country, and of course they can come to vote in the country. The agreement, however, ensures the vast majority of Greek citizens who live abroad. I would like to thank Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis again for supporting decisively the effort to formulate the necessary consensus. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would also like to thank the representatives of the parties who participated in the intergroup and contributed with their creative attitude to this important act of national understanding. Through the agreement, the message we are sending out to all those who are going to vote on the bill - and I want to believe that there is the basis for the three hundred to vote - is that the Greeks are too few to be divided and that it is useful to have this in our minds in every decision and action. We're combining our powers to move forward. I hope that this logic will prevail more widely. We are now going to four important articles of the bill, which come from the Ministry of Interior. I will be content with this, as for all the rest the Minister for the Interior, Mr Lebanese, has spoken earlier. Article 179 of the draft law allows municipal councils to conclude public service contracts in the areas of cleanliness, maintenance of green spaces and electric lighting. Our government wants to free self-government from state bonds. He wants to be true, real self-government. He wants the municipalities and the public to decide for the house. It is their interest to collect waste, to light, and so on, and municipal councils must legally have all the alternatives in front of them. The goal of the government majority is clean and beautiful cities, safe and bright neighborhoods. Our aim is the proper functioning of the municipalities in order to provide the best service possible to the citizens. And with the regulations we make, we give the municipal councils the opportunity to take the weight of their decisions, since they concern their own citizens first of all. The very fact that the decision must be taken by the municipal councils, which are the sovereign bodies in each municipality, shows that what we are seeking is that decisions are made with the widest possible consensus from the representatives of those who experience the problems. Thus citizens will not be faced with tons of waste in front of their doors, on the grounds that there is no staff to collect them. There will be no excuse for anyone to see that the staff are not enough to sustain green, that there will be no evidence of lack of electric light, which causes great security problems for the citizens. I want clear and unequivocally to say that there is no and is not meant to be any concern for those workers in the municipalities working in the field of cleanliness or green maintenance. The capacity laid down in Article 179 shall be activated if the City Council considers that this is necessary and therefore there is absolutely no possibility of any worker being made redundant. That is what we all have to know and stop the specula around this issue. On the contrary, what's gonna happen? Other our fellow citizens, who are probably unemployed today, will be able to find work in the private sector. And I wonder, after so many years of a very tough crisis, how is it possible to have an allergy to the private sector of the economy? How is it possible to keep in mind that there are private workers, as are the unemployed who want to work in the private sector to live themselves and their families? Finally, the municipal councils themselves are the highest bodies which define the terms of the contracts and the possibilities for their renewal, depending on the quality and effectiveness of the services provided. I hope that all this is understood by the Ottawa workers, because it is absolutely certain that they are perfectly understandable and are supported by the large majority of Greek citizens. A few words for three more provisions. With Article 187 we are trying to restore self-evident control on the part of the Ministry of Home Affairs and Finance for the levels of employment of staff in fixed-term private-law contracts, both for the purposes of planning recruitment planning and targeted coverage of real needs and for reasons of budgetary order, by abolishing a large number of exceptions that the previous government has implemented in a series of provisions. The regulation we are bringing about relates to the cases of contracts with a fixed-term employment relationship which is charged to the state budget. As far as paragraph 7 of the amendment is concerned, despite the fact that the basic principles of the mobility system are in the right direction, the practical implementation of the framework creates problems and gaps in the proper functioning of certain services and, in particular, of local government bodies. All over Greece mayors, regardless of their political position, protest that this constantly reduces their useful staff and goes to different sectors. So the regulation we are bringing is necessary for the proper functioning and use of the existing staff at the Local Government I agencies and, in particular, the staff of technical services, namely the engineers and construction services, which are responsible for developmental responsibilities. This is how we respond positively and effectively, I believe, to the relevant demands of mayors and self-government officials. Finally, as far as the 'Help at home' programme is concerned, I have three points to point out that, as we have committed ourselves, the duration of the programme is extended until the end of the year by 30 September 2020, so we believe that the selection process will have been completed at the latest through the IASA. At this point I would like to inform the National Representation that this week the procedure for the approval of PHS 33 for these posts is being completed. This regulation also sets out the question of the appropriations to be used to extend this programme. As is the case in all areas of government policy, in the context of the implementation of this very important social programme, the government is moving in one direction only: it must be fully consistent and reliable to what it has undertaken to implement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u317	Mr President, a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u318	First of all, Mr. Janakopoulos, are you a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u319	Yes, Mr. President, it's me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u320	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u321	An amendment has been tabled by the Ministers for Finance, Home Affairs, Digital Governance, Infrastructure and Transport, and I wanted to mention it, since the Minister for the Interior is here but also the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister, Mr Petsas. At some point, in the third article, in fact, it refers to responsibilities related to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, as it defines specific issues relating to the phytosanitary sector. He's been filed illegally. There is, in other words, a formal problem in her statement. The amendment must be withdrawn and retabled by the signature of Mr Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Theodorikos, do you have anything to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u323	We will see the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u324	The next speaker is Mr Katsis, followed by Mr Sarakiotis, both by SYRIZA. Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is so much more relevant to growth as the spectacular to the retsinus. So within the hundreds of thirteen articles of a multiplier draft - ahtarama - together with the twenty amendments that have been added last night and those that have been put in - which we have lost count - the government shows its true face. By ordering BSE, you dismantle the labour market, leading to a reduction in private sector wages, you make scandalous gifts to existing entrepreneurs and also blue mayors. Restore contractors to the county payroll services, equate foreign college degrees with AEI degrees, abolish the Register of Investigators for Investment and much more. Any disputed interest in you to go out to the government, you come and serve it immediately within three months. In fact, however, you are bringing back a model that led the country to bankruptcy and, above all, you are showing scandalous care in the media, what you know, if they stop supporting you, you will fall politically next time. I shall start with the sinful article 157 on media issues. With enthusiastic creative ambiguity, you are interpreting the possibility of exempting all SME owners from submitting "possibly" through the lifting of denomination of shares. And not only that, you did not even feel the need to answer the questions we asked in the committees. You have obviously been covered by the bilateral remarks made by the Director-General of the Union of Canalarchs, Mr Kimbouropoulos. But we ask you from this Step again: What is the reason to give funds to which no one knows who owns them, to invest money that does not indicate their origin? So a Panama-based fund will be able to fund a newspaper and will also be able to fund other companies of interest to political people? Can a canalarch transfer their shares to a fund of his own, to escape control of 'wherever you'? Could he possibly have a lot of channels? What is the reason for this opacity? Why are you opening such a ferry? Here you serve interests with a name. Repeat the triangle of interlocutory, banks, parties, media from the window. And there is here an issue of unconstitutionality with regard to Article 14(9) of the Greek Constitution, which explicitly requires the adoption of an implementing law on transparency in the ownership regime of SMEs and forbids the concentration of many media in the hands of one. These have not dared to do any government and you, with an article out of consultation, come to review all previous press laws, destroying the Constitution. And as if that were not enough, while Minister Pierracakis, in his speech in the House, presented reports of ideas on a fourth industrial revolution and the introduction of 5G, did not have the political courage to present the amendment he brought last night. Of course Mr. Petsas presented it today. But what is this amendment doing? Convicts some of our fellow citizens to watch free television not in high-definition, as canalarchs required the canalarchs, the Poppa Law, but in a low resolution, in standard definition, freeing canals from investments, while in the rest of the world we are heading towards 8K analysis. So, ladies and gentlemen, are you aware of progress as a disinvestment in new technologies? And what are you telling us? That the spectrum isn't unlimited, as you were telling us when we passed the law on the licensing of channels, with L.4339? Now have you discovered a great deal of narrowness in the availability of spectrum and radio frequencies? I would also like to address Mr Georgiadis, the Minister for Development. Code 60, Mr. Georgiadis, finally joining the development team, you told us that it is not to see Giorgos Evas with a state grant, but it will restore investment in channel technology. Didn't you say? Yes, sir. Because here Mr. Pierracakis relieves them of the obligation to technological upgrading, not to put the canalarchs into a single euro. Obviously, Mr Pierracakis and Mr Petsas, your amendment has come up and you have no idea what this is about, nor have you made sure to know. Such contempt for Parliament by non-attached ministers is a bad sign of legislation. To prove what I am saying, I submit to the Minutes of the House the revised NACE report, which refers to codes 60 and says what they include: programming and broadcasting activities, radio programmes, television programming and so on. I testify to her because she has nothing to do with the equipment. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Katsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the other hand, we also have the 'Growth' - not 'Austria' - to accuse Mr Petsa of the fact that in the joint ministerial decision on the measures to support the press, 'photographs' reinforces the media which have not provided tax and insurance information and which have been owed to workers, since it is deducted from the conditions of their submission. And not only does this take away, but it also reduces a newspaper's traffic limit from twenty-four months to eighteen. So what newspaper do you photograph to get into the favourable provisions of these regulations? So you are being donated against the consistent and healthy businessmen in the industry. Simple as that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u326	You've got one more minute, Mr. Katsey.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u327	I now come to the provisions of the digital agenda. Bring in an integrated draft for the licensing of the antenna systems. Here you copy to a large extent the draft law put in public by the SYRIZA government. Our aim was to regulate for the first time this unregulated landscape for decades. The project was not, nor is it, simple. It needed a special treatment so that the raw material could be enriched to achieve our goal, balanced between the modern need to integrate new technologies and the respect of environmental and urban legislation, but also respecting public health. And what did we see? We expected you to improve the provisions so that they would be harmonized with environmental and urban legislation, but the articles that have problems, that is, Articles 20, 22, 23, 24, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 34 and 38 - we have also pointed them out in committee - if you do not harmonise them with environmental and urban legislation, we will vote against them. Instead of improving them, you have hand-in-hand brought in a set of provisions, introducing at the same time problematic amendments to the amnesty of illegality and sanctions, while, for the limits of radiation, we have watched not 'Joker' but - you will allow me to say, 'Monti Python in the committees, with one Deputy Minister, Mr Georgioda, to say that the committee concerned will be set up immediately, with the other, but the State Secretary, Mr Zarifopoulos, saying that it will probably not be established at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Katsy, let's watch another speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u329	Yes, but with two hundred fifty articles, Mr President, a serious analysis must be carried out. This thing can't be done. I can't make it. I'm closing in with the rest of the provisions. National ERASMUS network: It's nothing new. It has already been prepared by the General Secretariat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Katsy, you speak seven and a half minutes. I can't allow it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u331	I'd like your tolerance. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u332	But you're not finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u333	National Simplification Program: Multi-advertised. But what are you doing? You are evangelizing the fight against bureaucracy with more bureaucracy. You are building a slow boat and in chapters II, III and IV we have counted an unknown number of working groups with equal numbers of CIAs, ten further ministers decisions and five Secretarys General, with a number of suggestions and reports and an eight-seat observatory...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr. Katsey.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u335	This bill should not be called "I invest in Greece", but "I go for Greece again" or "I turn Greece back". It serves specific interests, away from the extroverted productive model to be followed by the country. It underestimates work and rights. Nowhere, where these were applied, growth did not come. So return to the irregularity, return to the causes of the country's bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u336	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western gallery of the House of Fifty-four students and students and six educational attendants from the 33rd Municipal School of Trikala. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to say - and it is not Mr Katsis and the previous speakers have done so - that, because there is no technical way of stopping, closing, etc., we remove speeches, not time. Each one must be careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u337	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u338	You're welcome, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u339	Mr President, may I ask you this: will the list of speakers be exhausted or not? If we continue at this rate of overrun of speaking time, at least twenty-five Members will not be speaking. I would ask the Bureau to inform us whether we are going to get rid of the list or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u340	Our attempt is to get rid of the list. As far as I know, the chairmen of the parliamentary groups will also speak, in which time is not known. We will see and do the same. As long as we can withstand, Mr. Defyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u341	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u342	Here you go, Mr. Theodorikos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u343	I have asked, Mr President, for the floor to answer Mr Janakopoulos's question. It is obvious that on the matter of this PLENARY State Secretary and Minister, the Minister for the Interior is in charge of the matter. I have tabled the amendment. As you know, at the end of the procedure all the relevant ministers will be co-signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u346	It is not right to say what the Minister claims. It's been accepted in the past. Amendments have been withdrawn. It has recently been done with the Minister of Justice, who had to sign a specific amendment concerning his powers and had not signed it, and that is why the amendment was withdrawn and retabled. You must do the same in this case. Otherwise there is a legal problem, there is a matter of nullity. I think that this practice and the legal custom that has been created has been retained. I don't think you should insist on that. Withdrawal of the amendment and, if you want to table it again, you will be tabling it with the signature of Mr Hatzidakis. This does not create a very big problem - it is technical, it is typical, but it is serious legal - unless there is a problem with Mr Hatzidakis. I don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u347	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u348	Here you go, Mr. Georgiadis. On this subject, I imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u349	Yes, Mr. President. There's no custom in the House. In the House at the end, the signatures of all the ministers are being signed. Any amendments I make as Minister signing the bill of acceptance, entering the body of the bill and, in order to bring the body up to the FEK, all the co-legislative ministers are signatories. In other words, all the co-legislative ministers must sign the bill and accept the body of the bill, so the amendment. So what we're talking about now is a shadow. No reason we're wasting time. If Mr. Hadjidakis, who suddenly shows a special interest, has disagreement on a matter of his competence, does not sign the bill and remove the issue of his competence. I assure you, in order not to be anxious, that at the end the bill will be signed by all the appropriate ministers. Don't worry. I would also like to make the new legislative improvements to this House's information.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u350	I would ask that they be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u351	I'll say one last thing because he's been put for a pluralistic time. With regard to our overall debate on Article 2(3) and code 60, although I have stated that my intention is to only concern the renewal of equipment and not productions, and I told you that I wanted to make a legislative improvement on this, the Deputy Minister, Mr Petsas, came and explained exactly how the situation is and why this legislative improvement does not need to be improved. As far as production is concerned, it does not go through the development process. We are strengthening production. And you supported production. I would remind you that you personally supported Mr Gabra's film production, I think it was you and not another Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u352	We, us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u353	Congratulations. It was a fantastic movie. You did well to strengthen her. He presents Mr. Tsipras about as a puppy. In any case, this is your business.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u354	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u355	I repeat: it's your issue. You chose to present Mr. Tsipras as they see him in the cinema halls. I have to say that in part I agree with this presentation and I do not personally regret it. But for reasons of respect, I would not have financed it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In any case, this is your issue. I repeat: the EMEA is responsible for the financing of producers. In any case, development law only refers to equipment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u356	And why did you put the code 60 in it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u357	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u358	You can't take the floor, Mr. Katsi, it's not possible, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u359	But, Mr President, my speech has been referred to, and we need to talk about the Minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u360	I understand, but... Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u361	It is legally binding when an amendment is tabled and concerns the responsibilities of a particular Minister, it should also be signed by the relevant Minister. In our case is Mr. Hatzidakis. Mr Georgiadis just now said something completely unreasonable, that if the amendment is voted on and Mr Hatzidakis disagrees and he does not sign it, then the amendment will not come to the FEK. These things are prestigious. We've never seen them before. They've never even been said in this Chamber. I do not know what legislative practice Mr Georgiadis is proposing, and if Mr Theodorikos agrees with this practice. Is the logic of good legislation, which you were telling us a few months ago, and you celebrated for the ultimate state, for which you have now brought another amendment? You have tabled thirty-five amendments, you have made changes to the final state for the third time, thirty-five changes in the bill. Where exactly are you headed with that logic? And do we point out a technical problem, in a calm manner, with the intention of simply pointing out that you may have made a mistake and that Mr Georgiadis is going out here, in a style which is completely incomprehensible, to give a show again before whom? Yesterday he went out on TV five times. Isn't it enough for him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u363	You have the floor, Mr. Theodorikos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u364	I am not going to follow the former government representative in an effort, as he himself described it, a technical issue for the legislative process to hold a whole debate on political analysis and impressions. I think we have more serious things to do. Mr Janakopoulos, I insist that it is me, the Interior Minister, because the Ministry of Interior is responsible for supervising the municipalities and regions and for the operational responsibility for this matter. The amendment has been tabled, sir. At the end of the day...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u365	And why do the others sign? Why don't you sign it yourself?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u366	If you are so kind as to respect the terms of the debate in Parliament, which you have previously referred to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u367	I respect them. With great courtesy and interest I ask you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u368	It is not a matter of politeness, it is simply a matter of respect for the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u369	Please conclude, please, the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u370	The answer, therefore, is that at the end, Mr President, the bill as a whole will be signed by all the co-legislators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u371	Any Minister is putting an amendment to any matter, that's what you're telling us!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u372	Wait a minute, we'll resolve a few issues and then we'll move on to the list. The Rules of Procedure of the House in Rule 88 speak of the content, printing and distribution of the amendments. The amendments contain amendments, etc. Before the text of each amendment, a brief explanatory statement mentioning the reasons for the proposed changes and amendments submitted by Ministers is accompanied by a summary assessment of the effect of the arrangement. Amendments from Parliament must comply with the provisions of Article 73(3) of the Constitution. Of course, if some amendments have not been tabled in due course, but in due course, they do not need to have a explanatory statement. That's what he says. There are no issues, for example, of customary or non-ethical law. The question here is this: if the Prime Minister, Mr Theodorikos, makes an amendment, but it has to do with Mr Hatzidakis, that is, if Mr Hatzidakis does not sign it, the amendment does not apply...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u373	Let me explain something to you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u374	Yeah, I'll give you the floor. Let me finish and explain. Alas. It's necessary. Now, from there on, I think I don't have to address this House right now. Mr Theodorikos, colleagues simply point out lack and move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u375	Mr President, I would like once again to clarify this and I honestly do not understand why this insistence exists. This is an establishment of an inter-university body. Transnational bodies, OTA bodies. Where do the TATs come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u376	What about the towns?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u377	Please, sir. Where do the TAs come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u378	You've changed your argument now. You said a moment ago that it was okay...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u379	Did I change my argument? Are you watching, sir, my additional arguments? Drop your hand, Mr. Pappa, lower the index of your hand. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u380	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u381	No more behavior! Learn to respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u382	Please calm down for the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u383	I'm clear. This is an establishment of an inter-university body. Colleagues of the Officerial Representation, Mr. Pappas, who is yelling and the former government representative, are wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u384	All right, all right, we'll talk about it with the President, we'll discuss it with the committee. In any case, there is time if there is a lack of correction, if there is no time the House finally decides. That's not the time, that's the time. Mr. Pierracakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u385	I would like to take the floor for what Mr Katsis said before, in relation to digital dividend 2 and say that you are probably confused. And let me explain this a little. There is a European obligation, which has to do with the 700 MHz range. What's that supposed to mean? He says the country must release this spectrum and publish it for the 5G, as it will do in the middle of 2021, as we have already said. What did we come here to talk about? You have defined - and this is a little technically complex, but it has the value - that the country should move from T to T2, which is essentially the codifications. What would that mean? It would mean that all Greek citizens whose televisions are not the latest technology should buy decoders now, again. Are you sure you want this? Because that would be an extra burden for Greek citizens, apart from what you say about the channels. Secondly, this is not for HD, it's not for high resolution. This would affect the high definition only in 8% of the regions of the country. In particular, northern Ionians, Dodecanese, northern Aegean. What did we come here talking about? From obliging all our fellow citizens now, so that 100% is very clear, to accept this 8% being standardised, as it is today, and step by step - to make investments. Otherwise, we should be buying decoders today, and today we should also see all the investments that DIGEA would not have done, and ERT - and if you insist on that, I would like to see what the ERT had done to get through to this T2, because we did not find any - to do so now. So it looks like the treasure's a little carbon!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u386	Mr. Katsi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u387	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u388	And in the next ministerial dialogue with a Member, the same will happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u389	Wait a minute. It is of interest to Members to speak - that is the issue - and in particular to Mr Sarkyotis, who is the next speaker and has been delayed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u390	We are interested in the process being followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Pierracakis could not be placed. For a minute, Mr. Katsis will speak quickly, then Mr. Pierracakis will speak and we're closed. Here, Mr. Katsi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u392	Minister, in order to be able to auction digital dividend 2, a government negotiated and brought the CENDI agreement in 2017, which increased the frequency range. So do not present something to us when you left the country completely uncoordinated and in no negotiation with its neighbours as to which frequencies it will use. One of the prisoners. Second prisoner. As for the transition to the digital, the high definition, if you want to have that transitional limit, you should put an upper time limit, which you do not put. So make a legislative improvement and put it in for six months, possibly, that the necessary investments can be made so that all Greece can go to the high-definition signal. As far as ERT is concerned, when it was decapitated and saved 1.6m euros a year - inside and out of import - from DIGEA, to broadcast with its own transmitters, the new main systems that have entered support DVB - T2. These, Mr. Pierracakis, from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u393	Mr. Pierracakis, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u394	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u395	Wait a minute, please. Don't open any more issues, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u396	I'll respond very quickly. The T2 practically what it means is greater capacity, more channels, more space. And I want to say that, despite the fact that we have the sensitivity to more channels, I am very pleased that you too have this sensitivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u397	Very good. We're all sensitive to having a lot of channels. Mr Sarakiotis has the floor, and then Mrs Notopoulou from SYRIZA, for five minutes each.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy mutation continues rapidly and the bill under discussion is another clear proof of this. Promises to many for growth give way to the implementation of services to the few, particularly those who helped you win the recent elections. The pimps of 2004 and of 3592/2007, of the so-called Rusopoulos Law, have been forgotten and you are coming today to abolish the obligation to name shares in the media and to submit "whereabouts" of their owners. From the promises in the middle class to the clientele settings of your strong friends. You are thus looking at a path of fair, balanced and sustainable development, which is so much needed by Greek citizens after a ten-year sacrifice course. You are looking forward to an important deposit, which was reflected in the SYRIZA projects, in particular in the ten consecutive quarters of growth, the reduction of unemployment, the creation of five hundred thousand new jobs, the increases in wages, the restoration and strengthening of labour rights, with examples of collective agreements, the strengthening of environmental protection, and, overall, a structured development policy, which has had tangible results, such as our country's first in absorbing the Yunker package, the first of our country's to the absorption of the NSRP, the records of the previous years for exports and foreign direct investment. To what do they now give their place? To a development of the inspiration of the New Democracy. Because how one can view as development aid the reintroduction of the second memorandum, the deterioration of the Labour Inspectorate, the abolition of justified redundancies, the undermining of collective labour agreements, the multiplication of poster posts in the Ministries and the increase in the remuneration of senior civil servants, up to EUR 7,500. What will be, then, the result of this legislative initiative at the wages of workers? Reductions. New wage reductions, as also mentioned in the tenth page of the study of the Bank of Greece, which you are presenting yourself. What assurances are there to prevent employers from increasing their arbitrariness and defending the rights of workers? These questions must be answered to the Greek people and you must stop baptising everything as a backward and ideologue. This bill should be entitled "I invest in a few to maintain me in power" rather than "I invest in Greece". Why else would the channelling of public resources to friendly business interests and support sectors such as food distribution and courier? So tell us what the development mark is in support of these sectors. Are they offering quality and new well-paid jobs? All you can do is deprive critical resources of innovation, research and other sectors with high extroversion and high added value and direct them to your friends. Ladies and gentlemen, because of the limited time, I will close my speech with Amendment No 52/2, which I have tabled under the bill and which falls within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior. And since he is here and the Minister of the Interior, I would ask him to consider it with great care, as the issue is about debt write-off, the 2% fee to OTA I grade. It does not only concern the Municipality of Lamia, but many municipalities throughout Greece and it is related to municipal council decisions many years ago, OTA I grades, which have arbitrarily and illegally decided not to collect the end of 2%. This means that operators in the food industry do not account for 2% of consumption and that they do not collect this amount from their customers. When the municipal councils perceived the illegality of their actions, they suddenly assured these sums and reached after many years the businessmen in this sector to be ahead of the inability to repay these obligations. Knowledge is many MPs and the New Democracy of many regions as well as the Fthiotida Prefecture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u399	Mrs Notopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA and Mrs Agerinopoulou is followed by New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u400	Mr Karamanlis left again and we did not have time to tell him that we are not laughing, but we are crying, because we may be doing the self-evident thing, we may have done a job and we have almost reached its completion, but you are stopping, ladies and gentlemen of the government, at the moment, a work of breath for Thessaloniki. And, for whoever's wondering, I'm just going to remind you that, when we took over, just 30% of the project, compensation claims reached 1 billion. So, as we speak of growth, the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki the day before yesterday confirms that he stops the subway, that he destroys ancients with high added value for our city, that he keeps public transport in order, obviously, to privatise them later, that there is no plan for a freight centre and that there is no plan for railway compositions. So the development plan of the New Democracy for Thessaloniki is no other than what it has always been: turning it back, trapped in the misery. The government's development plan for the whole country is, in fact, reflected in this multi-branded plan: a return to recipes that have been unsuccessful, tested, precisely in these recipes that led our country to bankruptcy, but also in Greek society in a humanitarian crisis. And we can't forget that. It's a very malicious episode in the thriller you've set up. And I say "written" because with so many multiple corrections what else can it be? So try to clean up what SYRIZA did in previous years, you're trying to bring back the Memorandum Model and, of course, you don't forget to make presents, paying off your debts to the media system. Except you don't pay it back. You have the Greek people to pay them back. You remove the national development strategy and replace it with absolutely nothing. No development planning, no development orientation. ‘Empty shirt’ means your development. So at the time that not only the entire international community is talking about climate change, it is about environmental protection, but the Prime Minister himself is also constantly talking about green development, you are downgrading the role of the Ministry of the Environment, you are overcoming authorisations for the environment and you are approving higher structural indicators at the expense of the environment and land use. You are about to do your own PPP government. We said, where appropriate, in the way that you should, but in such a short time as you have succeeded in destroying the very concept of the strategy, since you characterise every PPP project, even the smallest, strategic investment. For the control of investments you have created an excellent account again, with false evidence, in order to put, not even from the back door, but from the front door, private external auditors. I say this because you say that you are simplifying the procedure, that there were delays, that it was the SYRIZA's fault. But the truth is, when we took over, there were six thousand unfinished issues in the completion of the development law, while, when we left to you, there were fewer than a thousand unfinished projects, which were due to a delay on the part of investors. As far as control speed is concerned, and you know very well that neither was there a proper record nor in order of priority was the evaluation, we were able to normalise the situation, leave just two hundred and thirty unfinished, and not two and a half thousand, as your executives claim, and that was also your development laws. Because under development law 4399 was something less than ten. It is therefore clear that the choice of auditors goes hand in hand, that transparency goes hand in hand. That does not surprise us, because you have never done so well. What surprises us really is that in a development law - at least that is what you call it, especially imaginatively - there is no mention of the development arm of the Greek economy, of tourism. I say this in contrast to Development Law 4399/2016, which has been made a great deal of mention. Not to blame you, of course, for your interest in Greek tourism, you unfolded it in the management of the exclusion of Samothraki, unfolded it into the collapse of the travel colossus "THOMAS COOK". I will open a parable here: by the way, the Minister responsible has not only answered us in relation to the questions that we have repeatedly asked, but has not even brought about the implementation of his own announcements. And indeed, the addition submitted by KINAL is in the right direction, but again refers to the extradition of a CIA. We are also waiting for the CSCE to be issued for the OAED programme. How long are we going to wait? And go on, we wait. What are the workers waiting for? Obviously, of course, you are preparing to make use of this particular tourist crisis in order to establish special economic zones that you bring them in. Today we know very well that other data are available. The hotel contract applies, the lowest wage is at EUR 800. Once the provisions you vote are in force, they will go back to EUR 650. So let's see who you're defending. As if the hard attack on the world of work were not enough, you do not forget to subsidise branches without any development prints at all - you could not even defend it in here - you give a gift to the media barons, of course as exchanges for the unconditional support they gave you and to the tons of mud that they threw at SYRIZA. So, back to the complex, with a subsidy this time. Neo Democrats may have baptized subsidisation, support, reinforcement of the established interests of "development", but this is what the Greek society calls "ruspheti".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u401	Mrs. Notopoulou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u402	I will end with local government, Mr. President. It is known that we have received a local government broken down, with no resources and no staff. The day before yesterday we had the 3K sworn, we gave resources, we tried to give staff. You really have a project in local government, and the plan is to break it down. You are privatising services without even having to substantiate weakness and, of course, without quorum. Well, of course, you've also found your executives, welcomers. And I would like to ask: why does anyone come down to defend local self-government, serve it as a candidate for mayor when he does not believe in local government? How hypocrisy does this attitude of your executives hide? I conclude, therefore, by saying that this development is only falsified, and that one understands only with a simple reading. But I will remind you that whatever title you have in your bills, reality is not hidden. It is a reality that the Greeks and Greeks have experienced with the memorials before. Let me remind you that we succeeded in getting out of the memoirs. So dismantle whatever work and conquest you want, fill the country holes, the economy, dismantle the country. We are going to re-establish it, the Left and the progressive party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u403	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mrs Agerinopoulou, from New Democracy, followed by Mr Nikolakopoulou, also by New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u404	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, you will allow me to welcome the convergence of the parties and the effective leadership of the Prime Minister himself to reach agreement on the vote of the Greeks. It was a right that we have been unjustly deprived of for many years. We now hope that the Greeks of the diaspora will come a step closer to home and, of course, we call on all those who are interested in getting the courage from today's bill that we are discussing and investing in our country again. We are talking today about a very important draft law on economic development, as its adoption is among the necessary conditions to attract and implement new investments in our country, after an investment desert that we have spent in recent years. This draft introduces a series of innovative tools for organising not only the investment effort but also the operation itself, such as the Single Digital Charter, the National Infrastructure Register, the Business Parks and the Local and Special Spatial Plans. These are necessary tools to rebuild new areas, which are more rational, which will respond to the country's modern development prospects. Especially in regions of the region which are trapped in older living patterns, reproducing anachronistic growth models, as is the case in the Prefecture of Elias, these tools are panacea. For our law, it is also important to activate the specific development programmes, Article 130 of this bill. A significant part of the bill is therefore the part that regulates terms and conditions for the National Development Plan, the management and control of its development tools. This draft is a prerequisite for the implementation of the essential part of the country's development programme. With this, Greece will climb stadiums on the global competitiveness list, which is now very low. The main priorities of the National Development Programme should be, inter alia, environmentally responsible and sustainable investments, investments in environmental and energy infrastructures that will protect biodiversity and public health, strengthen the country's effort to create robust infrastructures against natural disasters and climate change and strengthen the creation of renewable energy sources, with a view to a fair transition to a low-carbon economy. In order to do this, we should immediately adopt legislation that promotes an environmentally and climately sustainable financial and banking market and ensures the positive role of investors in environmental and climate protection. Greece is moving in this direction. Under the leadership of the Prime Minister himself, he is taking firm steps to find himself in the frontline of the leadership, among European states, to implement the new Green Agreement for Europe, adopted on 10 September 2019. Furthermore, our country should take a leading role in promoting the proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on notifications, on sustainable investment and sustainability risks and amending Directive 2016/2341. This Regulation requires notification to investors of environmental and social criteria and good governance criteria for any investment planned, as well as the obligation to analyse the environmental and climate risk before an investment is made. This will particularly facilitate the attraction of investors who worldwide promote the environmental and climate agenda and make our country even more attractive to those investors. Furthermore, the regulation, together with another package of relevant legislation, should be incorporated as soon as possible into the Greek legal order and along with this draft law will create the appropriate regulatory framework for the type of investments that we really want in our country. For the creation of a Greece that we really want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u405	Thank you very much for the time. Mr Nicholas has the floor for five minutes, followed by Mr Bukokoros from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u406	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, with "Invest in Greece", the government comes to solve years of problems of the Greek state, which are an obstacle to entrepreneurship and prevent investment and job creation. I would remind you that the unemployment rate is still the highest in Europe and reaches 17.2%, with the European Union average being at 6.3%. I also believe and agree that bureaucracy is still one of the main problems of the Greek state. With this bill changing the business environment, neo-natives or serious financial problems are being facilitated, the world of precarious work is being guaranteed, and the social partners are being given the basis for sound, transparent and representative representation. I will be content to refer to three of the areas covered by the bill. Having knowledge and experience of the situation in the towns of the country, and also the luxurious urban legislation, I consider it particularly important to provide for the creation of a single Digital Charter. Until now, the geogeographic data have been scattered across various administrative archives, thus creating uncertainty to the interested party regarding the completeness of the image he had for a property, requiring a long time to obtain the information and a relatively high cost. The Single Digital Charter will include information on all geographical data, which will clarify which economic activity will be allowed in which area and quickly lead to the final licensing phase. An electronic base shall be created on all critical data relating to the exercise of investment or construction activity. The Single Digital Charter will be binding on the administration as, on the basis of this Charter, it will be specified when it is licensed and when it is not an operation. For the first time, governors and administrations will move on the basis of the exact same data. Through the integration of all of these data into the Single Digital Charter, the citizen is provided with comprehensive, valid and institutionally secure information. In this way, on the one hand, the country's economic life and attraction of investment are being strengthened, on the other hand, there are cases of bureaucracy and corruption in terms of providing the necessary data from the public administration. I also consider this opportunity to be critical so that we can see again and, having a full picture, move on to lifting many unjust and unjust restrictions on building and protecting areas that we must safeguard. Half Elias Law cannot be developed and sentenced to poverty because of the presidential decree on the Kyparissian Gulf, which has been unduly extended to a larger area than it should have been, but also to residential control zones. It's an opportunity for mistakes in town planning to correct them. Ladies and gentlemen, coming from a law that does not even have an industrial area, I cannot help but consider the provision in the bill on the creation of business parks to be important. The absence of an organised national business park development plan is one of the most important deterrent reasons for attracting new investment in our country. According to studies, enterprises operating within organised business infrastructures ensure lower installation costs, up to 25%, lower operating costs, up to 42%, a major reduction in real estate tax, a significant reduction in administrative costs, while being encouraged to export and innovate. Furthermore, there are no problems and doubts about land uses. It is all clear and clear. To date, there are not sufficient incentives to attract investment in business parks. This draft law updates and simplifys a business start-up scheme in a business park. An undertaking will no longer be required, except for the installation permit, and will require a simple notification that it will commence its operation. For businesses, even within parks, lower environmental classification categories will be established so that lighter environmental licensing is needed. Ladies and gentlemen, enough of the ideas and prejudices, denial and allergy to what is private, and many times only to speak, to satisfy our electoral clientele or to convince our ideological identity by turning to outdated logic and refusing to look forward, in fact contrary to our attitude to the present day. You are reacting, ladies and gentlemen, to the provisions of the bill enabling municipalities to grant management of solid waste or other services to individuals. You humiliate mobilizations and mislead people about the substance and the effects of the arrangement. Article 179 of the draft law stipulates that, where, in the opinion of the City Council, the performance of such services arises inconsistently, the Council may, by decision of the Council, entrust the performance of those services with a public contract. The municipal council, as the municipality’s dominant decision-making body and responsible for administering local affairs, may decide to entrust the activities of those services freely, assessing the circumstances and facts in relation to the service of the municipality and of the public interest. To date, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, were you against the management of solid waste by individuals? As a government, didn't you conspire to such assignments? The Elijah Prefecture was afflicted by the management of solid waste and experienced tragic situations, with the garbage being in the streets of the Tower and the national streets for months, just before the Olympic flame ceremony in Ancient Olympia. After pressure from local government, you consented to the financing of a private-owned calculator. You have afflicted the prefecture by delaying the operation of a solid waste management plant for four years, because you have been opposed to the PPPs, i.e. the public-private partnership, to finally decide to proceed with this model. You therefore agree on the management of solid waste by private individuals at the final stage, but not on their collection and transfer to the management area. How contradictory and hypocritical is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u407	Mr. Nicolakopoulou, will you please finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u408	I shall conclude, Mr President. Enough about hypocrisy, ideoscopy and populism. Greece needs reforms that will bring investments and create jobs and such reforms has many of the bill, which will radically change the investment environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, too. Mr Bukokouros has the floor, and then Mrs Dunia follows from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u410	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my satisfaction at the maturity that has demonstrated the whole political system in the area of facilitating our relatives to take part in the national elections, which was provided for in the Constitution, but we have shown a weakness, in all previous years and all the governments, to resolve this issue. I do not hide from you that I was extremely disturbed to see four million Turks in the tails of their consulates voting for many years and we, as a Greek political system, have not achieved this self-evident. So congratulations to the whole political system and especially to Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who, from the outset, has dealt with this issue with dynamism and determination. From there on, I would like to say that Members' participation in the bill under discussion, their large number, Mr President, also shows the measure of interest in development, which, unfortunately, remains a matter for that country. So many things have been said that we cannot actually reach a common position or a common conclusion. That's natural, if you want. But you will allow me to refer to what the former Minister of Finance said, because I was indeed impressed by his speech. He had a clear left approach to the question of development, with a clear ideological context as well. I am sorry to say that all the other speakers of the opposition have actually expressed opposition positions and made opposition speeches. Mr Tsakalotou's speech did indeed have an ideological direction. It was a modern left speech. He raised issues of quantity and quality of investment, raised the question of whether the Greek Government is currently taking part in the European debate on the surpluses and the brutal trade balance in Germany, or whether we are still a retired province under the responsibility of the current government. These are really issues. But this is where our differences begin. The former Minister of Finance has omitted to say that we are not even an investment destination in recent years, and in particular in terms of the SYRIZA government's term of office. He failed to say that we have been last in investment for the last four years. And while they were hampering the evidence, saying that foreign direct investment has increased in Greece, taking into account the money of "FRAPORT", who so much blamed opposition and said they would abolish this agreement, they failed to say what position Greece is in the total investment. And they missed it deliberately, because Greece was last in total investments throughout the last four years. It's good to put on ideological issues. And who would not want the investments that will be made in this country to be as a whole environmentally friendly as well as to give the best wages? If we look at this ripped out of the living reality, we can really all agree on it. However, I am very afraid that the modern left, which the former Minister for Finance is trying to express, is still trapped in deceit and temptations. We say here that the country is affected by investment apnea and we are putting a question of quality investment. We all want this, but first of all we must increase the amount of investment, enter the European Investment Charter. And that is what the government is doing today with this bill. It has many obstacles and mainly sends a signal, within Greece and abroad, that Greece is becoming an investment destination. Is that the perfect bill? No bill is perfect. It gives a first signal that things have changed in our country and we want you to come and invest in our country. And we are not the ones who will send our MPs to the Council of State to block the investment of the Greek, we are not the ones who will say that you will wait in line, the main investors, ten years to tell you if you can make the investment. What does that do, but other bills, Mr President? What does that do and other bills, except for the powerful signal he sends? It inspires political stability, sends out the message that there is a government that legislates investment issues. What else does this bill and other bills brought by the government? They improve legal certainty. What else have previous bills and tax coming from the government done? They rationalise the tax rates. And what are all these bills doing together? They improve the investment environment, improve the business climate. In the order I mentioned, Mr President, political stability, legal certainty, correct tax rates and an improved business environment are the four factors worldwide which judge whether or not investment will be in a place. These are the main parameters. Our judges have omitted to refer to all these issues which are correcting and improving the entire legislative work of the government, struggling with the development bill. They are critical and say: 'Why do private companies?' You know, ladies and gentlemen, which private companies you blame? Private companies which sign the balance sheets of ELPE, PPC, PPC, EPDP. These are the companies that will control the files. So are all the balance sheets signed on your day for all these companies, or do you want to tell us that the investment files are properly audited in public? We all remember, in 2012, the investment file scandal at the Ministry of Development. The companies who do this business in the afternoon will do it with the law and in the light of the day. What's your problem? I close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that at long last, opposition and the whole political system - because as strict as the government is judged, it is also the opposition, you have no doubt about it - we should now act as we did in facilitating our fellow citizens. No one asks you to change positions or ideology. To put forward the national interest is what the Greek people and the government are asking us to do, so we are voting in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u411	Mrs Dounia has the floor, and then Mr Ypsilante comes from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Mr President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the "Invest in Greece" bill aims to create a friendly environment for investment and entrepreneurship, by removing chronic investment barriers to licensing, urban and labour issues. This friendly framework for investors is now more necessary than ever, as the investments in Greece have literally collapsed over the last decade. In particular, from EUR 60 billion in 2007 they decreased to EUR 20,5 billion in 2018, while net investments have been negative since 2011. Even though foreign direct investment has increased since 2015, they remain at one of the lowest levels among the European Union countries as a percentage of Gross Domestic Product. To date, many strategic investment for the country remains on paper as their licensing is being delayed. The Ministry of Development and Investment bill gives greater flexibility to these strategic investments, so that they can be immediately licensed. At the same time, it introduces a less bureaucratic procedure for the control and certification of investment projects. As we all know, hundreds of investment projects are currently being checked and certified, which in many cases have been completed for years. These long-term delays lead to investment operators having administrative costs, but also to the late collection of their aid. That will finally have to change. It is now entrusted to auditors, accountants or audit firms, as well as to politicians and other individuals, to evaluate and monitor the implementation of investment projects subject to development law, with the State exercising a control role. In addition, the draft law provides, inter alia, for the simplification of the institutional framework for economic activity, the creation of a Single Digital Charter, an electronic basis with all the critical data relating to the exercise of investment or construction activity. With this map, therefore, every citizen will be able to obtain directly valid and free information about what economic activity is permitted anywhere in the country. This map will also be used by the administration to determine when an activity will be licensed and when it is not. It provides for the establishment of the National Register of Infrastructure in a digital and public accessible format, including all infrastructures and buildings owned or managed by public sector bodies, with the exception of infrastructure and buildings of the Ministry of National Defence. It provides for the establishment of the Hellenic Investment and External Trade Company, the main pillar of economic diplomacy. At the same time, the multi-project re-establishes the framework for the installation and operation of authorised activities by organised processing and business receptors. In particular, it abolishes the obsolete degrees of nuisance, burdening both on time and on economic grounds, the licensing procedures of the processing activities and establishing an authorisation with purely environmental criteria. It stimulates the setting-up of business parks, modernises and simplifys the start-up status of a business in a park, as a simple notification of the start-up of business will suffice. It puts a number of obstacles to the prevention of undeclared work by imposing high fines on each undeclared worker to the employer, by stepping up checks and by creating a register of offenders for undeclared work in the ERGAN electronic information system. At the same time, it improves the protection status of part-time employees, institutionalizes a register of trade unions and employers' organisations, and optional electronic voting for the call for strikes. The aim is to have more participation and democracy in the decision-making of workers, but also the social dimension. It speeds up the judicial process by establishing electronic documents in administrative justice, launches the procedure for the reimbursement to PPC of the due consideration for services of general interest provided by the company between 2007 and 2011, so that they directly contribute the corresponding amounts, calculated at around EUR 200 million. It establishes a National Plan for the Planning and Simplification of Procedures, aimed at combating bureaucracy, and a Written Observatory to the Ministry of Digital Governance, for the imprinting of administrative burdens arising from legislation and regulatory acts, as well as for the preparation of annual reports on the attitude of bureaucracy. Finally, it regulates issues for the National Development Programme and issues of functionality of the General Commercial Register. Ladies and gentlemen, as it becomes clear, the bill we are called upon to vote will have a significant impact on the Greek economy. Above all, however, this is a bill that marks a new page on investment and entrepreneurship in our country, a new era, largely free of bureaucratic strangles and fragmented legislation, a time to restore our lost international credibility and to restore investor confidence, which we so much need to attract investment and create new jobs in our country. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mrs. Dunia. Mr Ypsilantis from New Democracy has the floor, followed by Mr Moraitis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u414	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the findings recorded in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law 'Investing in Greece and other provisions', in other words, a law brought by the Government of the New Republic and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, both through these provisions and the findings recorded, both by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and by the European Union, on the weak economic performance of the country but, above all, on the lack of a business-friendly environment, betray the main cause of the immediate reaction of new governance to this situation. This is a direct reaction in order to make a decisive response to this negative phenomenon for the country, with the aim of improving to the fullest possible extent all the economic indicators in our country by reorientating the investment environment. As a Member of the Dodecanese Parliament who represents a part of the country with great activity from capital intensive operations, I can assure you that the bill under discussion has long been urgently required in order to get away from the economic suffocation that caused delays and diverse counter-incentives for growth and economic progress. Of course, in these positions the questions are reasonably raised: are the laws that bring investors and growth? What went wrong with so many previous laws, which investors did not get excited and growth was not the desired intensity and sustainability? The answer is that, in order for there to be growth, we need legislative provisions that respond to the truths that the constantly changing environment requires strategic objectives, speed of decision-making, security in trade, stability and clarity in the legislative framework, bold institutional and modernistic framework, friendly public administration, constant expansion of knowledge at every age, extroverted perception and automation of procedures, to the point where investment tools are exempted from political intervention. And I want to believe that today's project, despite its scope and dynamics, is not just the beginning. And it is only the beginning, ladies and gentlemen, and colleagues of SYRIZA, because the follow-up will surprise you, no matter how much you want to say yours to the Greek people and within the House. It is, however, the legislative instrument for achieving this project, both appropriate and in response to the current European and international environment. Ladies and gentlemen, almost ten years ago Greece was suffering from a multi-level bipolar crisis. On the one hand, it was the externalities which sometimes, unfortunately and sometimes because of us, brought dramatic declines in the country's GDP and abruptly suffering to the economy and society. On the other hand, it was the obsession with introverty, whether for reasons of micropolitical or fear of athleticity and ignorance of what is really happening in the rest of the world, in the normal world, which in our case is similar to the unshakable European perspective, humanism, science and culture. Because the core of development is education and commitment to cultural values. GDP is a well-being indicator supported by institutions, by remarkable progress, by transparency, by the depopulation of public administration, by the full decentralisation of the citizen from party engagement and, ultimately, by the simplified legislation on all social or economic aspects of everyday life. These lines are followed by the draft law entitled “Investing in Greece”, providing fundamental stability and protection of strategic investment. You see, at our place, the way to the future remains a difficult undertaking. It takes the lessons of the past, because the day depends on the unforeseen tomorrow. Thus, this law contrasts with what selfishness does. For example, I mention the provision for provisions on red tape, business parks for the national integrated development programme, introduced by the concept of programming in the design, implementation, monitoring and control of development assistance financed from the country's national resources, for the National Register of Infrastructure, the most self-evident tool for the maintenance and control of public infrastructures and buildings, the forecasts for innovation, technology and digital governance, public procurement, modernisation in the media and the functioning of administrative justice. We in the Dodecanese are well aware of the fact that we are paying the blurred landscape of responsibility for those responsible, accountable, indifferent or inadequate people who have troubled our fellow citizens, hidden in the mist of confusion of responsibilities, even for the simplest: business activity in landlocked areas. We are a country that needs this change and this approach through this bill. And the easy answer to what I said is to say that it is the citizens who do not respect the laws. The difficult answer is to produce usable, understandable and with a realistic contribution to the sustainable and sustainable development of the place. I have pointed out that this is the beginning. I think it is very important that we should proceed immediately to a next stage and to codify developmental legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that - and keep this - the Government of Mr Mitsotakis has been given the mandate to renew Greece, to recover its lost credibility from the international environment, to renew every vision of optimism from the source of the new generation and to embody with the energy community any action aimed at the well-being of our country. And that is what we will do in voting for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u415	Thank you very much, Mr. Highlands. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Moraitis, I would like to inform you that he was submitted by the Radical Left Coalition requesting a roll-call vote at first, on sixteen articles and an amendment to this draft law. Mr Mauritius, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I feel that we are witnessing another example of misrepresentation of words and acts, but also of refreshment of expectations. Opportunally, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you said that the market was waiting for you as a mediator and that your coming would bring about a well-considered development, contrary to what is allegedly evil and undevelopmental SYRIZA. And you relied a lot on this account. You presented yourself as a guru of growth and economy. On the other hand, you were trying to build an image for the SYRIZA government - and you achieved it to a certain extent - incompetence and incompetence. But the reality is too hard for you. SYRIZA has put the country in a developmental orbit, as all the figures presented these days show, economic indicators and my colleagues have said. He took the country out of the memos. These, together with the escalation of foreign direct investment, which - I would like to point out - have been a decade-old record, and the reduction of unemployment, could be a huge opportunity, in view of the development bill. And instead of taking advantage of this environment that was created in development, instead of bringing in a comprehensive plan that promotes sustainable development, but which also proves the strategic advantages of the country, you are presenting a multi-branded development plan, a summing up of heterogeneous regulations and regulations, a bill of opacity, waste and arbitraryness. You support a limited sector with small growth potential but also small added value. You remain faithful to the recipe of a Balkan neoliberalism that serves specific interests and which model, according to your past, has wrecked. Development, ladies and gentlemen, that does not make use of the fourth industrial revolution and it is not sustainable to result in long-term positive results for the country and the economy. We also see a lack of direction for development in new areas, the digital economy, robotics, electromechanicals and artificial intelligence. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] In this bill, the total indifference for the backbone of the Greek economy, the real economy, i.e. the medium, small and, in particular, micro-enterprises, prevails. This world, which has kept the economy up, alive, has fought and emerged a winner from the neck of the crisis, which today provides six out of ten jobs, does not see its position anywhere in this multi-brand plan. There is no regulation and no provision. And, to understand what sizes we're talking about, we're talking about 97.2% of Greek businesses. Because these are small businesses. By unequivocally speaking, once again at the suggestion of BSE, you are legislating a large number of provisions which have a structural impact on collective bargaining and collective bargaining. You are voiding the possibility of unilateral referrals to arbitration. You remove the principle of more favourable regulation and the principle of prolongation. And sectoral contracts ensure not only the workers, but also the small employers. Therefore, because of this abolition, you should understand that an unfair competition between businesses will be triggered and that the smooth operation of the market will to a large extent be dismantled. You are going through a large number of regulations on environmental issues, the limits of constitutional legitimacy. You are not serving sustainable development, because you do not believe it. As an indication of BSE and the institutions for many years now, you have been setting up excluded from the Attica industry, by redefining the level of nuisance. You are returning to choices of the post-war period that led to degradation and desertification of the Greek region and you are overthrowing the only policy that in the years of the post-war period it has achieved and brought some results. And you do that because you do not believe in regional development, you do not believe in the regional potential. Restore an Athenocent Development Model, which you well know has failed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This bill reveals your real perception of development, a development with which neither the healthy productive forces of the place nor the majority of the market are identified, a growth of plastic and old cutting, which serves very specific interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u417	Finish it, Mr. Moraite.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u418	I shall conclude, Mr President. You're with the few, the chosen, your friends, the state-of-the-art fake investors. Serve tracks, as in the past, an economy of airplanes and processors. We are, on the contrary, and will fight together with the real and healthy forces of the country, with the small and medium-sized one, with the professional, with the innovative professional who has endured the crisis and the exporter, the simple worker and the farmer, respecting the principles and values of fair and sustainable development. And that is the fundamental difference between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres of the House, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and two educational sessions from the 11th General School of Patras (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Sultana Eleftheriadou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u420	Wrong title you chose for the bill under discussion. The "Investing in Greece" should have titled "Saint Mary is coming early this year and is Adonis". And who brings gifts? It only brings gifts to a few, to friends, elected representatives, businessmen and appointed children of the New Democracy in positions of civil servants. We have waited for months to read the multi-advertising bill, the super-project, which will eject investment in Greece and will bring growth for everyone, and finally we have a multi-project, which, thankfully, is perceived, is actually organizing the sale of the state on the private initiative, creating speculators for the entry of private, friendly always, of interest in all sectors. Do you really think that you will make our country an investment destination by introducing only three new activities into the investment law, the courier, television programmes and gold mining? How many people are this about? You did not bring a study as a minimum document to justify this choice. In contrast, there is little mention of high-extroverted sectors, they create high added value, they increase the wages of workers and they increase employment. It is no coincidence that only BSE and the Association of Television Station Owners praised the government. All the rest, private employees, municipal employees, pensioners, students, trade unions, unions, clubs, judged your bill. Besides, what should we say when the Bank of Greece's report itself, which Adonis himself submitted in the Minutes of the House, states as a direct impact of the bill the reduction of wages and the reduction of workers covered by collective labour agreements. Our strategic goal was to develop by upgrading work. On the contrary, you consider that by reducing wages and attacking labour rights and unions you will increase the profits of investors and thus bring growth. So it's a lie that you're bringing growth for everyone. The wage squeezing won't bring growth. Really, why, for the first time, did work provisions become part of a development bill? In all your articles you make of a gift. For example, because of lack of time, in Article 1, the Government offers land and water to business groups. All public and private partnerships, independent of size, will be considered as strategic investments and the Minister will be overpowered throughout the licensing process. It is clear that your purpose is to increase the turnover of your friends at the expense of the Greek public. Article 3 should have doubled 'Marinakis'. Two presents you make to Marinakis. You think that postal services like the delivery companies, which you are subsidising through development, have a strong footprint on the country's development policy. Is the company, an agency, an ARGOS press distribution, going to develop its activities in postal services as well? That sounds like it. And add the second gift to subsidisation and broadcasting and pay-TV, with an addition that was made after consultation, and while it seemed to close the bank agreement - 'ALTER EGO' for the acquisition of 'FORTHNET' by Marinaki. In Article 13, in conjunction with Articles 15 and 19, you are giving a gift to entrepreneurs who want to open up industries, new industries or branches of old, chemicals, industrial gases, fertilizers, explosives, nuclear fuels, foundries, ammunition. That's all it needed to be approved. Now it is enough to notify all these serious objects. This, in conjunction with Article 15, which says that environmental impact studies will be carried out by private companies and will control the health and safety of workers and the infrastructure of these private auditors, entails, as you can see, a very high risk. Articles 53-57 make multiple gifts to BSE. I think BSE wrote these articles. All the much-discussed working anti-labour regulations, which facilitate businessmen and manufacturers, are being voted on today, are destroying labour rights and trade union rights and rewarding the inconsistent and violating employers. Brutsis said in his speech that the work is part of the labour market and that it is in favour of workers and conscientious businesses. It says that it is in favour of workers when any undertaking can rely vaguely on economic problems and does not apply the sectoral agreements. They are in favour of workers, when they are effectively abolishing their constitutionally guaranteed right to resort unilaterally to arbitration. Is it in favour of workers when the fine for undeclared work is reduced in the case of recruitment of workers for a short period of time? Is it in favour of workers, when it weakens the control mechanisms, when it intervenes constitutionally in the ruled, collective autonomy and the functioning of trade unions, when only undeclared work will now be reported in the Electronic Infringement Register? Other violations don't employers do? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A big blow to the infractionality is given by Brutsis and by Article 162, which is about casinos. And here he wants to benefit only from his friend Mr. Piladakis, who has three casinos in the country, in Alexandroupolis, in Rio and Corfu. So what's he doing? So far, casinos have been suspended if they were 30 days late to pay the employees. You do, therefore, abolish this and say that it is only a suspension if it is delayed for sixty days to pay insurance contributions. Workers may never pay them. Why do you abolish this when the only one who has not complied with the law of SYRIZA is Mr. Piladakis? All the other casino owners have complied with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u421	Mrs. Eleftheriadou, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u422	Wait a minute. Articles 178-180 are a gift and this is a gift to locally-loved contractors and friends. What was the need for these provisions to come when eight and a half thousand workers are employed in cleanliness, maintenance, green space, electrical lighting? What was the need, when the mayors were able to cooperate with contractors, when the staff were not sufficient? Articles 165 to 170 are gifts to colleges and private education. Article 210 is a gift to your appointed children, after their salaries are taken from 4,600 mixed at 7,500. So full of gifts to the ‘individuals’, so that they and no one else can develop today's bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u423	Mrs. Eleftheriadou, please. Take time from other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u424	I'll be done. I'm in the end. We have understood it, we have pointed it out, we condemn it. Soon SYRIZA will take everything behind those who are not entitled to it and bring it back to workers, pensioners, small and medium-sized enterprises and the Greek public.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u425	Thank you. MEP George Vlachos asked for a short-day absence abroad from Sunday 27 October to Tuesday 29 October. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u426	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr. Armalene has the floor. I'll beg you to be in time, Mr. Symphony. Make an effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u427	I hope I am. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said about today's bill, a draft development bill. In fact, it is a slogan of many terminology, which seeks, on the one hand, to act on the concept of "investment wherever possible", as it may be, and on the other hand, to break down all positive measures of the SYRIZA Government in the work relations and, in general, in the regulatory framework contained in our development strategy. Gentlemen of the government, you play with fire, because you revive the same logic that led the country in 2010 to bankruptcy. Incorporate in your own development model services and ruffles to specific entrepreneurs, effectively inaugurating the new complexity. Because what else can be the subsidisation of activities such as courier couriers, dellivers, broadcasting productions? What is the multiplier of these sectors in the economy? What else is there to do with the abolition of the'subject to' to the canalarchs and the abolition of the denomination of the shares? What does Article 206 mean, moreover, for the adoption of a special spatial plan by the Secretary-General, which abolishes all previous urban and territorial planning at local level essentially by decision of the Secretary-General? And we need to know that with the logic of the bill, which each investment is part of the strategic investment, this has an impact not only on the islands and the most remote beaches, which are preparing large complexes to create investments, destroying the last naturally excellent environment that exists, but also on the entire tourist Greece. It is an industry that, if it is not intercepted from now on and does not enter into rules and frameworks on environmental terms, then we will have a great deal of damage to our comparative advantage, which is culture and the natural environment. So this Article 206 enables a Secretary-General to pre-appoint specific spatial plans that abolish any other planning and planning that existed beforehand. Two more issues I'm going to raise. Firstly, in addition to the substantial abolition of sectoral collective agreements, in addition to the abolition of the recourse to unilateral arbitration by workers, it has escaped the debate - the previous colleague, who went up to the Step, said - that Article 161 really abolishes our article on casino workers and, if not paid for more than two months, the operation of casinos is suspended. There is also a contradiction. While you do not mention it in the explanatory statement, in fact within Article 161 you have formulated it in such a way that workers are affected and can no longer make use of the beneficial law established by SYRIZA. A second point is an amendment tabled by me and Mr Tryphoon Alexiadis. The Minister's not here, and I don't know if he's answering. It is an amendment to remove an injustice against a small portion of DU staff that was abolished in 2012 and 2013 in various regions of the country and especially in the islands and these employees were transferred to municipalities or other services. There are employees who have been transferred under a specific wage scheme and those who have been transferred without fully enjoying the salary scheme which covers their personal differences. This is a question of restoring injustice and I think you should see it positively. In conclusion, this is a bill that instigates the new complexity, institutionalises unconditional and limit-free growth, without environmental rules and at the same time throws the world of work. For you, the holistic development strategy, the proposal drawn up by the Ministry of Development for days SYRIZA with a long-term perspective and started to implement fair and sustainable development, is considered to be about a foreign body. You do not use all of the country's comparative advantages. You are not looking forward to innovation, sustainable tourism, mining, ship repair, renewable energy, social and cyclical economy, and in the agri-food sector, which you are dealing with in a way that is anyway and wherever. You are ejecting refreshing and turning us around in other conditions, in which construction and automobile were considered the engine of growth. No relationship, that is, with the fourth industrial revolution and with the crisis of climate change. That is why growth of this type will not only have minimal effects, but is at risk of leading us back to the bankrupt counterproductive model that has led us to the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u428	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA. The Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece Dimitris Koutsoubas will be followed and we will continue with the list, unless other Presidents of Parliament or Ministers come. Mr. Hatzidakis is already here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u429	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Economou, said in his position a few hours ago that here, in this bill, the differences between the New Democracy Government and the SYRIZA government are recorded. I'll agree with him. I will fully agree with him because the differences are obvious. At this new time when the SYRIZA government got our country out of the memoranda and regulated the debt, so that it could finally be able with full funds and the 37 billion pillow for the country to come out of the market and regain its economic and political sovereignty, a plan for the future, a plan for real, sustainable and fair development is necessary. But a plan that would come to propose a change in the production model, wanting our country to finally be able to keep up with the fourth industrial revolution, support demand, support labour, quality, innovation, support the need to respect the environment and climate change and crisis and above all support the fair regional and social redistribution of the results of development. The draft law brought by the Government of New Democracy is precisely in the opposite direction. In fact it is a mixture of obsolete and failed neoliberalism and customer relations. It was this mixture, in many cases, that led our country to previous periods, to crisis and then to bankruptcy. But much more cannot be the answer for the future. Why does this draft law which we are debating today, which is euphemistically about investment and development? We therefore see, instead of coming to give a boost to innovation, to quality, to the productive model of the country, it comes to strengthening activities such as courier, fooddeliver, the creation of television programmes and mining. It comes to privatise even public audit services, such as project and investment control or assessment, as far as environmental impacts are concerned for the various projects and programmes are concerned. It comes to privatise, without any rule, by abolishing the existing framework, namely in cases of exception, where there was a special reason for local government, to give contractors and "loperate" issues relating to cleanliness, issues relating to green and electricity. Here I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to refer in particular to the majority Members and say that the previous government has succeeded in completing an emblematic notice of the AACC - inconsistent - through the compensation fees that you now come to give to contractors. This is the famous 3K proclamation, which finally solved the hostage of thousands of people. Mr Alexis Haritsis is here with whom, as ministers, we had worked together until the last day before the election in order to complete the proclamation and to have permanent staff in the service of cleanliness, without hostage, with quality services and, of course, with a public profit. Because all these privatization contractors for cleanliness, either in hospitals or in local administration, as has now been demonstrated by studies which you obviously ignore or want to ignore, have ultimately cost less to the public. They were also profitable and invested in permanent staff. But, of course, the biggest neoliberal seal in this bill is work, where you actually come here at the time when we came out of the memorandum to revive the second memorandum, to undermine the collective bargaining, to make exceptions that in fact, catalyse and abolish sectoral contracts with what this entails. Clearly, as our rapporteur, Mr Papapas and Mrs Ahtsoglou said in her position, there is a reduction in wages. That's your idea. Your perception is not to support work and demand, but to reduce wages and, of course, the right to unilateral recourse to arbitration. He said Mr. Papathanases, who is present and I followed his speech, that with this bill you are sending a message. I, too, wonder, Mr Ministers of Government, what message do you send to the young people and the Greek people? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. What message do you send to the thousands of scientists who left the years of the crisis? Will you send the message that the country's development future is elastic work through contractors or courier and teleport work? The message is that our country has no development prospects? The message is that we are in a country where excellence does not apply to public responsibility, but do they come posted with reduced qualifications and increased remuneration? Is that the message for the new generation that you're so tired of? Is that the development model that will bring back new children, scientists who have left or who will give hope to young children who are in unemployment or who are looking for a decent life? Clearly it's not. So the message that we are sending from this Step as a Qualified Opposition is that dynamically, programmed, we will stand to defend both the public interest and the social and labour rights, where they are affected, and in Parliament and society we will highlight our opposition. But, above all, we will highlight a truly progressive sustainable and fair model of development, with a social and environmental dimension. This is our commitment and this will bring together a broadly progressive majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u430	The speech is given by the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u431	The effort, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to create a favourable field for the great capital against the workers of the Greek people cannot be hidden. Whatever page of the bill one looks at, he'll rub his eyes. The modernisation of the state-run operation, which you are proclaiming, concerns the most effective support for large capital, to convert beaches, mountains, neighbourhoods of cities into areas where its overcompensated capital is located. The bill you bring reveals the size of hypocrisy, which of course distinguishes every pillar of the capitalist development path. While you do not stop grading to all drops in green growth and the need to respect the environment, your draft law contains a number of provisions that only as environmental "bombs" can be characterised. Continuing the work of the previous government, you promote new provisions, which shatter the very small amount of money left standing by the environmental audit mechanisms for investments. Surely the automatic authorisation for each investment, made in business parks, will improve entrepreneurship indicators. And how won't it improve them? When the checks are carried out by the operators themselves that have built the parks, we are sure that everything is well burned will come up all the time. This is the nature of the development that you and the'ministerial opposition' are promoting. Earth and water in the few! The main objective of the draft law is the general lifting of a series of State-guaranteed checks in order to allow an investment to be licensed. You are baptising every control of bureaucracy, making use of a number of funny examples and arguments, which have nothing to do with the issue of company licensing, and you are trying to build a social support for the changes that you bring. Really, ladies of the majority, explain. The price to be paid by the worker so that he does not get into trouble for two days when his child is registered in the various registers is not to have any control when someone builds a refinery or when one is cementing six thousand acres, the largest urban property in Europe? Do you really think that a complex technical installation worth hundreds of millions of euros can be evaluated technically or environmentally in just a few weeks? Is that possible? No way. The pressure of the fast-track licensing is not primarily to reduce the time of the licensing process. It is done to ensure that your orders, i.e. big capital, always have a positive response. You are putting in the services a suffocating time frame by criminalising, in fact, any delays. You are easing licensing procedures in a variety of ways, because your aim is to enable all investments to be done without even the present, even elementary, controls. Of course, for the various monopolistic groups, it is a pain for the officials who refuse to do "ladder" even your own laws on what is forest, such as the example of the Greek, which eventually became "ladder" only your cooperation policy with SYRIZA, who appointed the trade unionist of the IAEA as president to vote that the forest is not a forest. That's what you want to solve. You are forming a framework of operation of the State where any delay in a positive response to a big businessman is practically forbidden. A corresponding example of your guidance is the various digital databases that are being promoted in the bill and which at first reading seem as necessary digital modernisations: digital land base, digital infrastructure base, digital business base. But who is this digitisation serving? You can't hide here. The digital land base aims to facilitate large-scale investors, development funds of all kinds, both domestic and foreign, to be able to very quickly and more easily to know where to invest, from where to go, the new road to move on, without even having to pass, to take a look at the area of interest. The digital infrastructure register is the first phase to then assign the maintenance and reconstruction of the various infrastructures on a massive scale, further speeding up the concentration of the construction industry. Digital registers will allow banks to lend more efficiently, to large businesses to increase their business networks, knowing very clearly where they can invest, speeding up the concentration, for example, in the food sector. Truly, what will ordinary workers, self-employed professionals, local economies if the investment houses, funds, large groups, domestic and external banks, can decide directly where new units will go? What will workers and people win in one region of the country if your electronic systems automatically grant permission to set up an industry, without even getting through the hands of the local municipality at all? What will self-employed professionals, traders if digital bases allow large food retail chains, for example, to extend their networks wherever the trade register tells them that it has a lot more work to do? We are not surprised by your logic, gentlemen of the New Democracy. It is the logic of the great capital that you faithfully serve. Everything that's useful to capital is legal. Just now you want to have social consensus also using unrelated examples. That is why, at least, it is challenging - to be mild to the descriptions - to dare to compare the real great suffering of a worker in order to resolve a matter with the State, with the facilities required by the large groups and which you have provided quite simply. You do not, however, only live in these gifts to capital. Whatever page of the bill one looks at, it will see provisions that favour investment, strengthen state funding to the large groups. You are telling us that we have left the European Union. And what measure do you take to celebrate? Do you raise the pensions? Do you raise the wages? No, you have just decided that the abolition of supervision must mean that you, the Greek Government and only decide which investment will be considered important without the need for approval by the European Union. Congratulations! It proves what national sovereignty means in capitalism. You do not stop talking about freedom for example of the press and how the market economy regulates which channels will work and which will not. But even that, in other words, your criterion of market freedom goes for a walk, since you are preparing to fund the channels through the NSRP. You will respond, of course, to the fact that you are in favour of entrepreneurship, that your relevant framework is a premium not only for large but also small businesses, you will also bring us various - and you have brought some examples of small businesses that have achieved. Your ideologists, in fact, go even further. One of them recently wrote that at the time a startup was sold 50 million there are no more classes. It's pasé, past, over. But, gentlemen, from what you say, what exactly is the truth? BSE, for example, said that many small businesses are the poverty of the nations. The European Union in all its documentaries is talking about the need to limit the large number of small businesses. The memorials you have all voted on and the recipes you are following are abolishing a number of provisions which lead to accelerating the concentration of production in large capital. So the facts are stubborn and there is no need for any particular intelligence, only perhaps a more careful use of the language. It is not impossible under the conditions of monopolistic capitalism for a poor child to become a wealthy businessman, it is simply unlikely that, since the vast majority of them will remain poor, they will remain in the same social order as their parents. It is not impossible for capitalism to sell for some millions, it is simply unlikely, because the vast majority of them will close. This is also what your policy is seeking, namely, a reduction in the number of businesses and the formation of national champions. But it goes beyond the very argument you use, it rattles you. Proves why you want the startups. What you just want to sell the most successful of them in big capital. So the classes are not abolished, because there is a class theoretical mobility both upwards and downwards. Individual property in concentrated means of production, hereditary law, the perpetuation of capitalist property, the qualitatively different world that is growing and facing a child of a working family, from the child of a grand family comes to be fully aligned with the real socio-economic problem, the undeniable internal need of capital for continuous self-determination and self-increasing. That's the problem. And you know, Mr Mitsotakis, that you are not in the Chamber right now, and you, Mr Tsipras, are also not in the Chamber - and I am referring to both of you, because you do not differ in these matters in reality - that what you say as a power of the capitalist system, since the dominance of capital leads to economic decisions that favour its self-increase and therefore its consolidation, is also its enormous weakness. Because capitalism has as a criterion the past, it is the profit, that the accumulation of wealth from the past resulting from the theft of the work of many, will remain and expand in the future, leading to even greater theft. That is why it is not just an unfair system for the vast majority of workers, but it is also ineffective and contradictory and disastrous today. It's disastrous for people, for nature, for society itself. Ladies and gentlemen, the multi-project for growth entitled "Investing for Greece" has measures to strengthen business groups and measures that hit whatever labour rights and conquests were left out of the years of the crisis, but also in a new form of suppression of the labour union, with an intimate intervention of the state in life and the decisions of trade unions. With the multiplier of any foil of figs, which has been left in labour law, it is abolished. People's associations, this state tool at the service of employers, are being upgraded. They go back in, play a role in slapping wages, generalizing flexibility, creating conditions for greater profitability with increasing exploitation of workers. Experience from the not-and-a-half period of 2012 illustrates the clear role of associations of people as a compacter of wages and labour rights, as a Trojan horse in hitting trade unions itself in the claiming struggle. The conventions signed by the associations of persons from two hundred and seventeen in 2011 were fivefold and reached ninety-seventh-six in 2012. Along with the statutory minimum wage reduced by 22% and 32% for young people, people's associations smashed the average wages in almost every sector. Today we have a repetition of this work. It is a challenge, while putting asphyxiating conditions in the lives and collective decisions of unions - for this particular tool of hitting the contracts of the association only takes 3/5 employees with the participation of all kinds of manager, people of the employer and will be given full freedom of movement, while for trade unions no.1264/82 mentions a term of office of up to three years - the term of office of associations of persons - will not be subject to any restriction of time. We are talking, in other words, about a fixed mechanism beside each employer, without any control, without anyone being able to dismiss their decisions. All these days, you pretend that the draft law best establishes collective bargaining and contracts, when the government and the Minister in question remain the same disgraceful legislative intervention on the formation of minimum wages. Even your general principle, the one you are defending for all sorts of diseases, namely that the market regulates everything, is being destroyed in this particular case. You've worn cuffs in collective bargaining. The Brutsi Act, of the New Democracy, which the previous SYRIZA government has maintained in full and has now become - as is known and what all the workers say - to the 'Brutsi - Ahtsioglou' Act, is the same law that applies all these years and provides for a minimum wage to be set by the Minister. The Minister himself will decide on the sectoral contracts, the Minister himself will decide on everything. Through the multi-project we have in our hands, almost every critical article, it says in the dialog that the Minister with ministerial decisions, with joint ministerial decisions and with provisions, will become the permanent and absolute regulator. At any time and at any time it will be able to intervene and rewrite labour legislation and trade union law. By Ministerial Decision it will be possible to specify the criteria for companies exempted from sectoral contracts. The exception clauses that they include are all the arguments of the great employer, which he uses to lay off, to reduce wages, to change labour relations. There is no article that does not authorize the Minister, the absolute lord, to formulate terms of remuneration and terms of operation of the trade unions. Ten ministerial decisions will determine everything. We're not talking about a bill that's being passed tonight, but about a white-collar mandate to Minister Brutsi to leave nothing standing. That will look like what we're talking about here. In addition, the bill provides that the local contract takes precedence over others. We are actually talking about the operating conditions of the notorious special economic zones, which the International Monetary Fund has been talking about since 2010. In other words, a special tax regime for famous investors and a wild-farming scheme for workers, which will also be exempt from minimum collective labour agreements and minimum wages left by labour rights and new restrictions on trade union activity and organisation. Extreme areas of very cheap work will be created. In the same multi-project, you are trying to shield an anti-government framework so that there is no possibility of a secondment of rights, wage increases, the signing of contracts. You are talking about, for example, documentation to extend a contract. In essence, however, it is the vehicle that does not extend any contract. Even if a trade union organisation in this environment that is being formed succeeds through the struggles, through collective procedures, to corner the labour market and draw it into negotiations, the debate will stick to the legislative framework and the unfamiliar documentation. What does it really mean to document? Who decides? For arbitration, you are again trying to shield the demands of employers' associations that cannot hide their joy. What does the point mean, for example, in the multi-project which states that employers and workers must jointly take advantage of it? In practical terms, it means that workers will not be able to resort. In other words, unilateral action is prohibited. So charitable are the measures of your bill. The draft misleadingly entitled 'part-time protection measures', providing for an increase in the additional hour by 12%. It is clear that this regulation meets the needs of businesses alone. You will be able to employ a worker for an hour or so and for that you will be able to take a divestment, while allowing the employer not to turn parttime into full-time jobs. It is a confession of raw intervention in favour of businesses, in favour of notorious flexibility. There is, in fact, an exception for each article, which is, in fact, the basic rule. Employers' claims are lawful. For example, we were struck by point 2 of Article 59 where you say that part-time workers cannot be treated adversely with regard to comparable workers with normal employment unless there are grounds for justifying them. It would be laughing if we were not talking about a real drama experienced by workers, namely, such serious and critical issues relating to life itself, wages, the survival of hundreds of thousands and especially young children paid for EUR 360. Inside the bill and especially within the explanatory statement, the new blow to Sunday holidays, as you extend the exceptions to workers in supermarket warehouses. The road opens for Sunday employment in all distribution centres, logistics, for all kinds of goods. We anticipated that the abolition of the Sunday holiday would extend to other sectors of the trade sector and that it was not just about major shopping centres or major commercial roads or tourist areas, as you were all saying at the time. Of course, it is a demand from the big traders. The debate on the number of Sundays that the shops would have stayed closed opened overall opened the way for the complete release of Sunday's holiday. It is not just about Sunday holidays, but they release working time as a whole, that is to say, to be the worker at the disposal of the employer twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. Really, what does the Ministry of Labour have to do with the trade union register? What's a security branch? The register is a matter for the trade unions, to have their register as they want to have it, without any candidacy over their heads, without state or employers' intervention. You speak in the name of democracy, when experience of the last two strike battles was accompanied by threats, blackmail, redundancies in the workplace. You demand that the state and the employer enter the registers, either directly or as a guarantor, and you are also affected when we talk about the scientific real terminology of urban democracy as a modern dictatorship of big capital, monopolies and their state. Through the polynomial plan you are trying to become the judge of the trade union decisions, to become Mr. Brutsis super president of the unions. The unions from the first day of their establishment operate on the basis of their statutes. Their statutes lay down how decisions are taken, how the strike works, how the register is recorded, etc. All of this has passed through the first instances. It's legal on the basis of your own principles. Similarly, the number of members who voted in each club is neither hidden nor underground. You've got the evidence now. Really, how do unions get any of their operating expenses? Isn't that possible through the OAED? The Ministry wants the statute of each trade union organisation precisely to intervene and control its operation, so that it can government and employers control the unions, know at all times and at all times who is working or working as a member of the club, if it has a racing mood, since they will know whether it is participating in the procedures of the movement, in assemblies, in strikes. So he may not hire or dismiss any worker who is disturbed by his ideas, his action, his agonist. It's a carabinatous suppression of trade union activity, a file of club dispositions. This is not a long time when black lists of supposedly troublesome workers were moved by the Greek Industrial Association. And today we're doing this, and you know it. We have asked you dozens of questions in this House over the last few years about trade union persecution. At the same time, you put it in the mixer of democracy, and you do it all together, the employer register, as if it were the same thing. Employers' register, however, is not a personal data record. In order to justify raw intervention by the trade unions, you put the trade unions' register on the same fate as the number of workers employed by an employer organisation, and so you ask employers to do so. The number of workers who have an employer organisation is not unknown because it is a condition that you, together with SYRIZA, put together to extend the collective agreements. The employers' associations are vetoing, so they don't expand. Did you forget? At the same time, the most challenging is here, as, under Article 54(4), the Minister for Publicity will decide, for all technical details necessary, the provision of information, the maintenance of personal data and, in particular, the information relating to representativeness. Point 5 of the Article 54 provides that decisions by the general assemblies and other bodies of trade unions and employers' organizations, including decisions to declare a strike, may also be taken by electronic vote, i.e. on his mobile phone, from his home, without the self-representation of the assembly, without the right of speech, discussion and confrontation - health is within the movement -, active participation. Only to vote with a dry 'yes' or 'no'. Generalized prevalence of the logic of a ‘like’. You are not sceptical about the trade union movement, for which you have played a leading role, attempting to cut the workers' ties between them, their inalienable right to be informed, collectively discussed, to reconcile their demands, content and plan of action, to organise their strikes or other mobilisations. You want to hit the live participation of the workers themselves at the general assemblies, in every collective process. Even under this fully controlled environment, you once again have the Minister to define the terms and conditions for deciding how the strike will be decided. This whole suffocation framework is no coincidence that it is in the development bill. That's not labour law, it's called employers' right. It contains within it the complete eruption of all labour law rights which have remained intact in the "fire" which has passed over the past few years. In such a fierce attack, aimed at the labour movement itself and the workers' conscience, the answer must be not only proportionate, but it must also be understood by all the workers, regardless of what god they believe, that this is a battle for unions to exist as workers' fighting instruments and not as a bureaucratic mechanism for employers. Your development plan also opens up another way to the municipality and regions, since it enables municipal councils to privatise areas of cleanliness, green and lighting. Of course, this will result - and here we are - in the neighborhoods of the people paying for degraded and away from their needs, and the attack on workers' employment rights in the municipalities will also increase. We therefore support the struggle of workers at the local government agencies not to pass this multi-brand plan that gives land and water, new provocative privileges, business groups and at the same time crushes the lives and rights of workers. Finally, the fact that you bring to this bill and the arrangements for implementing the inadmissible European Union directive on the equivalence of university college degrees shows a lot more about where you are going and the thing about higher education. Both for you and for SYRIZA, who implemented as a government the previous phase of equivalency, the further hitting of the work, the scientific perspective of the rights of graduates, as well as the intensity of business activity in education, go hand in hand with the multiclassification of institutions, graduates and graduates. It is yet another proof that the needs and interests of the children of the people's families who are studying cannot be satisfied with the sigh of capitalist development that you all have as a sacred cow. The students themselves, by mass collective procedures over the past few weeks, with assemblies and mobilizations, give you a racing response. Instead of them, in addition to your policy, they also have your student party of the IGC, which is doing all it can to prevent these collective procedures and claims from the student movement. The JRC stands on the side of all the students who are fighting, joining with them his voice, strengthening the claim for full-time work with full rights to the subject of their studies, for a degree that will ensure full access to the profession. Overall, the Communist Party of Greece, its members, give all their strength to the workers' movement, the popular movement, through its own procedures, outside the intervention of a state and employers, to be able to regroup in a classic direction, to strengthen the anti-monopoly, anti-capitalist orientation of its struggle, the social alliance to fly out of the homes of the great employer from the lines of unions, to isolate all those who within the trade union movement undermine the conquered rights and freedoms of workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u432	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories we are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS" hall of thirty students and students and two teachers from the 11th General School of Patras (second Chamber). We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Gennimata, Mr. Tsipras, preceded in the sense that she entered the Chamber and asked for the floor after Mr. Koutsouba. If you have no objection to giving the floor to Mrs Gennamas and then to you. We are explaining as the Bureau that the institutions, once you are both present, have always been the President of the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u433	I have no objections, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u434	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u435	I, as Bureau, have to explain that, Mr Kegeroglu, so that there is no misunderstanding. Mr. Tsipras has no disagreement. Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u436	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction at the fact that a particularly important initiative of the Change Movement is taking place. Mr. Mitsotakis was forced to finally call the bankers over the huge charges on transactions with the citizens. I hope they don't just stay in communication. Of course, if the government really wants to resolve this issue, it has nothing but to accept the amendment tabled by our group in this draft law that we are discussing. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I would suggest, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you finally look at the amendments that we have tabled, particularly those concerning the protection and increase of the time for payment of unemployment benefit for those who lose their jobs at hotels that are closed after the bankruptcy of 'THOMAS COOK'. Don't just stay in the announcements. Your communications must be implemented and implemented. So there is an amendment from our group. All right, let's take it. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the draft law I want to make three points. Label first. For the Movement of Change the issue of the vote of Greek residents abroad is a matter of national importance, is a matter of democracy and therefore goes beyond the narrow party limits and perceptions. We all know that it is necessary to make concessions and compromises so as to ensure the two-members that are needed. However, the attitude of responsibility we have shown since the first moment in this matter does not mean that we do not point out the micro-party logic and purpose which, unfortunately, were not missing from the meetings of the committee responsible. Logics expressed by both SYRIZA and the JRC, unfortunately lead to the exclusion of a large number of Greeks who will not have the right to vote, namely to exercise their right to national elections. Unless they have the opportunity to come to Greece, to travel. Then they won't have any restrictions at all. However, it is enough that they have the financial capacity to do so. I would therefore like to point out that micro-party logic leads to class choices. There is room for rethinking. We have time for the law to be discussed in Parliament, and I invite them to do so. The New Democracy, of course, has so far refused to place itself specifically on how to represent the Greeks abroad. We have not made any commitment on her part. I would like to point out once again that the time has come for all the political forces to assume our responsibilities. Labelling second. In refugees - immigration - we finally need a policy change. Unfortunately, the government continues Mr Tsipras' policy here. Erdogan is threatening and blackmailing Europe with this issue, unfortunately Europe is disgusting to Erdogan and Greece ignoring Europe. So now, without further delay, we have to shape our own retaliatory framework. Firstly, we must effectively guard our borders. To make FRONTEX a true European border guard. This is the most crucial decision. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, we will be played and mocked by Erdogan who, unfortunately, has given him the keys to refugee immigration throughout the last time. Second point. The joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey - must be changed so that those who, of course, need to be transferred from the islands, which must be decommissioned, in the hinterland, can return to Turkey because they cannot, according to the joint declaration, go back to Turkey. They'll be locked in the mainland. Third point. To launch a refugee relocation programme in all the Member States of the European Union. Greece cannot raise this burden by itself. This is a European issue. If we do not react now and if we do not all agree in time, we will pay it very expensively. We're hitting the alarm bell. Labelling third. Between New Democracy and SYRIZA there is a peculiar part of their responsibilities. There is an agreement in the country's central policies, in which we see nothing changes. Finally, there are the cockfighting for the sight, for the eyes of the world. But they poison the political life of the country and act as an inhibiting factor for development, which is the crucial issue for Greece and the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, after the delusions, let us not live with illusions now. We are not discussing a draft development bill today. We are discussing a multi-legislative plan with arrangements, arrangements, corrections, without internal cohesion and with incredible cuff. We had shown since the beginning of summer the first negative samples of how Mr. Mitsotakis governs. Now we're confirmed. In particular, conclusion one. The government has no plan and strategy for the development of the country. It walks right on the footsteps Mr. Tsipras left. Absolute faith in the commitments he had made to the lenders. Commitments that broke into the middle class. And this is reflected in the draft state budget. Again, the citizens will pay to achieve the overcrowding, so that the government can appear as the 'Blue Santa', to return a small part as a temporary allowance at the end of the year. The bill attempts to make certain arrangements, as I said before, to deal with individual issues without breath, with no prospects, especially without prospects for the productive reconstruction of the economy and the attraction of investments that will create new jobs. It is no coincidence that the bill lacks any substantial measure for small and medium-sized enterprises, for regional development and for primary production. Moreover, the so-called development programme has no objectives, no priorities, no financial instruments, investment axes and an impact study. Conclusion two. The development of the New Democracy concerns a few and strong ones. And while Mr Mitsotakis is allegedly concerned about many, he burdens them with the burdens of his commitment to BSE. Private sector workers pay the marble. The government leaves them out and any surpluses they share at the end of the year. The legislation we are discussing attempts to circumvent sectoral conventions, to depreciate pay and workers' rights. A two-speed industrial relations regime is being established, with undertakings which comply with sectoral conventions, i.e. the minimum wage and rights limits and undertakings which are excluded. And, indeed, they are exempted by a white-collar mandate from the Minister to determine those criteria and procedures and to identify who have financial problems and who do not. So what does the government say in a few words at the moment in business? He says to them, "Come in, boys from the minister's office, and we'll get in touch. You don't have to make any commitment to maintaining jobs, as long as you have a barbas in Koroni." Of these "operational" interventions under this legislation, the only winners at the end of the day will be the unconscious entrepreneurs, those who do not respect the contracts and those who do not respect the contracts, and those who do, of course, lose them. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Change Movement are totally opposed. Greece cannot be converted into a place of cheap and devalued work. It is our deep belief that growth must concern directly the workers, the improvement of their lives, their everyday lives and, of course, the unemployed, through the creation of new and quality jobs. We will, therefore, continue to fight for the National General Association Convention, sectoral labour agreements and their universal application in all companies, whether they are part of employers' organisations or not. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] In conclusion, thirdly, the government is continuing its horrific interventions in self-government. Once again, responsibilities and resources are being removed, the municipal council is even more degraded by the rotating session. It allows uncontrollable and unregulated, even in minority groups in municipal councils, to issue non-transparent municipal services to individuals. We're completely across the street! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Conclusion fourth. Despite so-called governmental sensitivities for sustainable development, the bill does not promote any intervention to address the consequences of climate change. On the other hand, provisions that change environmental licensing procedures for business extensions are problematic, superficial, but in fact leave windows for misinterpretation and malicious use by scientists. Conclusion fifth. You have attempted, gentlemen of the government, to set up your own "White House" and screw them. If you were not ready, as you told us at the beginning of the summer. You brought thirty-six - not once and two, but thirty-six - changes and corrections to the famous "final state" that you voted on just two months ago. And then unknown all the time, of course, because we won't stop here. It's certain! It is indicative that fifty articles have been tabled at the last minute, mainly with photographic provisions and a service of interests and purposes. Of course, the creation of new bureaucracy is good. Additional observatories, services, procedures. We have to keep our people at ease, son! My old sieve art! What you know about doing very well, because behind the big words about so-called reforms your logic about the customer state, its state, you are setting up again and not slowly, but quickly - quickly. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And an observation. We are told by the government that the euro is 400. I'm fine!' But for the executives of the supreme subsistence fund, "large increases in their wages are necessary". Evidently in order for them to be better disciplined in government directives. Looks like you're not changing minds. You also managed to swallow the famous digital governance. There have been another thirty provisions, after the bulk of the provisions that you had brought in earlier, 'truths, bricks and horns which have been bleaked', without a comprehensive plan for one of the most serious issues concerning the future of the country. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we are saying 'no' in principle in this bill, because it gives rise to a profound conservative concept of governance which does not serve the needs of the country at this particular juncture and creates no potential for growth that is our great common goal. On the contrary, it serves rationally to strengthen the few who are strengthening the strong at the expense of the many, the weaker and of course at the expense of the workers, the small and medium-sized and the majority of the Greek people. In particular, for provisions relating to the circumvention of sectoral contracts and labour rights, as well as those that hit self-government, we tabled a proposal for a roll-call vote so that each Greek citizen knows the positions of all of us on these issues. The bill is below the circumstances and needs of Greek society. But, precisely because it is a very great need at the moment for the development and very great and the anticipation of the Greek people, we are obliged to support every article that we consider to be in a positive direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u437	The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Tsipras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill tabled by the government, with the so-called development plan, we have remembered again - we have forgotten, because it has been too long - how the New Democracy knows how to legislate, what the process of legislating the old political system is. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a draft law. This is, to remember a nice title of a movie,'my nice laundry'. In each article and a service, on each page, and a picture of friends, businessmen, publishers, mayors, statemen, in each article, on each page. Not that you haven't given us writing samples since the first day on how you're going to go. But here we are dealing with a panorama of your legislative style. What's that style? Allow me two minutes, because this technique is very interesting. First, you see which friends and interests you need to satisfy. There, of course, you have a little issue, because there are so many ruffles that have accumulated four and a half years now, which you don't know who to satisfy first. After collecting all the ruffles and services, then take the photos and convert them into articles and amendments. In that, I'm not saying, you're artists, nobody gets caught. After you pass the photos in the Legislative Body, then look at what you will do and about the core of your policy, which is neoliberal barbarism, anti-popular, anti-linguistic measures that are pushing you and dictating you to BSE. Indeed, here you do not need to take pictures and then amendments. The BSE crisis has been kind enough to give you both the articles and the recitals. You don't get too tired here. Copy-paste you're doing. Where you're putting a little trouble is how you're going to forge these communications, how you're gonna camouflage them so they can get through as unnoticed as possible. There is, of course, a media plea here too. And in the end, you take one last look at whether or not you've forgotten any of your kids complaining about. Indeed, if we take into account the fact that, since the draft law has been submitted to date, twenty further articles have been added, you are still forgetting at the last minute. And in this way the development, from the trunk of the legislation, is transformed into a gift wrapping, a stitching of graceful arrangements that you make to your customers and donors, without a central development account, without a view on the productive model that could highlight the competitive advantages of the Greek economy, without any reference to high value-added industries, real potential for growth for the Greek economy, only waste, immunity, opacity. And I'd like to ask you if that reminds us of something? Does it remind us, to all of us, of the causes that eventually led us to the crisis and bankruptcy? Does it remind us of anything? The way in which you have been ruling for many years and the great responsibility you had for budget derailment, but also for not taking advantage of the very important potential and high growth rates at the time, of the patterns of growth that have come and left, without leaving anything as a basis, so that society and the economy can be supported. After four and a half years of struggle to escape the crisis, bankruptcy and the causes that led us there - because I want to repeat that many times, we may have come out of the crisis, but if we do not get out of total, if we do not escape the mentality and the causes that led us to it, then we will not move forward - after four and a half years, I fear that we are returning back to the old know-how of governance, which knows very well the same political staff who had positions in the period of the crisis, the period when we were led to bankruptcy. Because we have not simply taken the country out of the memoranda, we have already tried to set up for the first time an alternative and at the same time holistic national development strategy, with balanced development throughout the regions, taking into account, through collective consultation procedures in thirteen regions, the competitive advantages of each region, the potential of each region, but also new financial instruments such as the Development Bank, but also the full utilization of the financial instruments available to the country. We started to turn a broken economy and a bankrupt country, which you then handed us into an energy hub, a commercial hub, a logistics centre and a telecommunications and new technologies and innovation, as far as possible and as far as possible within the narrow budgetary margins and frameworks that the country is still in. We have completed, in budgetary suffocation, the great, blocked, stopped by the crisis and the contractors, roads. Greece recorded ten consecutive quarters of growth with GDP in 2018 increasing by 2%, with the regulated public debt - which you, for a five-year period in the crisis, told the Greek people that it is sustainable, the biggest lie ever said, to get to the PSI that destroyed the insurance funds, the cut-off of Greek government bonds - with a 12-year record in foreign direct investment, with a 20-year record on exports, with unemployment falling by 10 percentage points, with four hundred thousand new jobs. This was the SYRIZA disaster four years. And what do you come to compare to this design, apart from the ruffles? Your ideological obsessed with labour, which returns us to the Memorandum Laws, without, of course, the presence of the Memorandums and the International Monetary Fund. Now, with regard to the charitable arrangements for friends and "logues" that make an eye, what should one go for the lead? I really don't know where to start and where to stop. You come and think that postal services and home delivery of food, delivery, are so essential for the country's development perspective that they are included in a development law and subsidised. And one is looking for why, until he realizes that this includes the Press Distribution Agency, the "APPOS", the monopoly that you can guess who has it. And he's joined the EMCDDA list for the development of postal services. But here, you don't legislate for delivery, you deliver it to the great boss. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Look at this other picture. Involve broadcasters and pay-TV to the subsidised sectors. And when did this addition become? When it seemed to close the bank deal - 'ALTER EGO' for the acquisition of FORTHNET by Mr Marinakis's group. You have neither sacred nor loyal. You put the mining in the development law. The Prime Minister, however, from the stage of the UN Special Assembly on Climate, said that we would end by 2028 with the lignite. On the inside, however, a few days later, do not finish, start with the lignite and subsidise the mining. Why should the state subsidise the mining? Mining of ores has no significant effect on domestic production. So why? Obviously in order to favour the expansion of the company that operates at the "ELLENIC FRYS" in Halkidiki, to go to Thrace as well, despite the great reactions of your local society and executives. There, in addition to the reactions to the environment, I will say, the company is mining, extracting the ore, and as it takes it off the earth, it is taking it abroad. The processing is not done here. No goodness in the Greek economy. Is it not enough to bring out our mineral wealth without leaving any added value, is it not enough that it uses questionable methods, based on the scientific community, in terms of environmental impacts, to subsidise it from above? However, these are of no importance to you, as long as friends and interests are served. Now for friends in the media, all right, we're not surprised about that. You remove the obligation to name the shares of the media owners. To say this in two words, to figure out what that means, not to know who it is, who's behind the funding and not to know who's putting the money and where it's going to be. And I learned this morning by not reading a newspaper that supports SYRIZA, "KATHMERINI" - and also informed us, because we are not at all informed by the press, what to do - that you have come to amend a ministerial decision of our own as regards the necessary reinforcement of the press release, the media papers. Our decision, however, made a precondition that these companies should not have unpaid workers and that the insurance funds should not be paid for. And you come and that's the condition that you're abolishing. In other words, you say to the media in our country: we do not want consistent entrepreneurs. We're going to need some Batteries. We don't generally want businessmen. We only want a complication. We only want those who are going to deal with political power. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You have made them gifts, made them against you, or even backwards, make you gifts, make them against them now after the elections. We were the only government that tried to put - and put - a framework of legality in the media. I see Mr Roussopoulos on the benches, and others did so, but only we reached it to the end, made it the law of the state, and at the end we defied the political cost. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We paid this expensive, and we pay for it. We paid it with political wounds through a permanent and persistent anti-government propaganda that is continuing and now we are in Anti-Policy. But these wounds in our political body are our own merchandise, they are the merchandise of honesty, integrity, of political dignity that you do not have. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because you're coming and even before you've been able to sit in the chairs with the government, immediately pay off the bills! Reopen the cannon of black money and of course favourable regulations and restore immunity. Okay, well, I said that at first, we weren't surprised by that. And after all, I'll say it anyway, here's a light of what's going on. Those who give you gifts in kind, displaying or concealing news, I understand that now you are making them counter-giving. All right with that, but the other photographic amendments to what kind of gifts are antique? To tell me, really, the Chinese POS scandal for the performance of a gold visa that caused the intervention of a prosecuting prosecutor for possible money laundering at the price, so are you going to settle it today, with two years' retroactive force just to include it? Honestly, are you not ashamed of bringing such a provision to the Greek Parliament, so loudly photographic, which intervenes in a case that justice is considering? But you will tell me here, the Minister with the main responsibility is not Mr Hatzidakis who sits first, Mr Georgiadis who has the main responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u439	And he'll answer you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u440	Yeah, yeah. Don't miss answering, Mr. Georgiadis. Every time you answer, you put selfgovernment in your government. You are the shame of your resignation and of the political system. Answer as much as you like. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You have been present for years, since it is the issue of days, Joker of Greek political life and Parliament and now of your extradition and your government. Because you were not ashamed, thinking that Swiss television in the international media is like the Greeks, who come to your home and do the focus camera in humidity, to prove how poor you are and how poorly you live, to go to a television station that made documentary on this critical issue, its Greek aspect - one and a half hours the Swiss TV on the "NOVARTIS" scandal gave its Greek aspect that you say there is no, but theory - and say that the company could brib politicians, but saved lives. And when we asked you to tell us, you who said there was no scandal, which politicians he was bribing, you came out after three or four days to say that he was bribing Tsipras and Paul and you were not ashamed to say that. And it's just been an hour since you've gathered them into a new TV station, self-accepting and self-involved that you've got charges, slandering without any evidence. So you're not ashamed of what you've been doing for so many years, will you now be ashamed to bring these crystal-clear photographic provisions serving specific interests? No, you're not ashamed. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I fear, however, that the Prime Minister is ashamed of you and that is why he is not here today. In such a top bill he avoids he will come, not listen to the political leaders, but take the floor and defend it. So here you're all slaughtering them and stabbing them all. Nothing escapes you. Even provisions for colleges you have included. And here your people, your interests. A little more than anything. And not to forget some amendment which favours a mayor of yours and another which affects the forthcoming elections to the Chamber of Technical Chamber, which we have in a week, even for his travel expenses. All of you have included them without shame, from the biggest to the most fragile. Of course I do not forget the great institutional division to get an increase, brother, your children. What, with the same reward will the blue transmigrants be rewarded with what was rewarded by the transmigrants who were "Maduraeus" and who had long hair and tarts? It can't be done. How are we gonna do it now? They'll get an increase, alas. Why not increase the remuneration of the directors of general secretaries' offices and the remuneration of governors and subordinates and general inspectors and, in general, of all those appointed from 8 July to date? And yet, for four years, you have had the courage to talk about the state that SYRIZA raised, about SYRIZA's poster, you who have hundreds of people who have been on the doors of the government offices to fit into your final state, which God has finally done. If we dare to bring such amendments, not dozens like you brought to Parliament, or to bring an amendment to increases in posteriori, you would lift up the stones. However, instead of us wasting, instead of following the tactics that you have followed for years and led the country to bankruptcy, we gathered like the euro ant in the day-to-day anxiety, because you had left us with the public funds, and we did not have to pay the pensions, with the daily anguish that the Greek economy could be saved, that Greece could regain its national independence, its national sovereignty. And you come here, you find it all round, so I said the other day that you are the "Government Joker" not only for this nonsense you're doing, for the neo-conservation of cinemas, but because you dropped the joker. You left a country broken up, bankrupt, and you receive it with 37 billion euros in public funds, an economy that goes forward, talking about a fourth memorandum. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And while we packed yours apart, you come back and you start the party back to the suckers' health. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that I have spent twenty minutes talking about these, but it is so extreme that what is being put forward today in a bill that - I repeat - started with eighty-five articles, was finally tabled with two hundred thirteen articles and within a few hours, since it was tabled, it has reached two hundred and thirty-four articles. It's so extreme that nobody knows where to start and then end. You must have broken every record of the legislative process in the Greek Parliament today. This does not mean, however, that the main problem with the bill is the eyepieces you are trying in interests, large or smaller. There is also a philosophy with which we are vertical across and it is the basic ideological and political difference that we have, the basic ideological, political difference of the Right with the Left, and how much more of a neoliberal and extreme neo-conservative right with all - I would say - the progressive forces of the country. Because I would like to point out that there is your isolation on the labour issues. All the other forces from the Centre and to the left we have an opinion that has been tabled these days, which we are debating, of absolute contrast with everything you are trying to bring back the commemorative legislative forecasts of the middle ages of the labour market. And I want to focus particularly on these forecasts, because we have a whole bill hidden in the development bill, a bill that is a nostalgic of the International Monetary Fund. Since you cannot have the International Monetary Fund in the country since we got out of the memoranda, bring its perfume and its practices, its phenomenal ideas, its ideas and your legislation again. And I will say it exactly, as it is: Here, we have the total abundance of labour rights for which he fought in difficult conditions and legislated against lenders - it was not as it is now - the government of SYRIZA. And you send - to paraphrase a beautiful film "The working class goes to Paradise" - and the working and middle class in the "Heaven" of the second Memorandum. And to say that all this is done in the name of development, he could sit down and talk. But that's nonsense. There is no prospect of growth through the decline in industrial relations. We have tried these both in Greece and abroad. And internationally they've been tested. And from Thatcher's policies have been tested. And from the core of the Memorandum Policies have been tested. They have been tested in our country and these perceptions have failed miserably. The constant perversion, however, that you have that reducing wages will come growth is also one - if you like - ideological obsession and the core of your ideology. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that by decision of the SYRIZA Government, the collective agreement of employees at hotels - where there are working conditions that we know very well that there are many times that the existing legislation is not complied with and there are also blackmail conditions for workers - has been extended and covers a hundred thousand workers and provides for a minimum wage of EUR 800. The next day your bill is passed, these workers will see their salaries falling to 650 euros. It's a hundred thousand employees. Remove the collective agreements that we restored after the memorials. You are abolishing the principle of more favourable regulation for the worker. Remove expansion. You lead to a suffocating restriction on the right to unilateral referral of workers to arbitration. As far as sectoral contracts are concerned, companies will no longer be able to apply them and to reduce wages, invoking financial malfunctions. They may even not sign a sectoral collective agreement when their competitors pay their employees with lower wages. And that is not enough for you, of course, but you are giving the Minister of Labour a white cheque to decide which companies will apply sectoral contracts and which do not. And all of this, we think it's not happening at all. And, of course, they don't start now. This bill is the institutionalisation of a draft for the deregulation of labour rights that existed before the elections, it is at the order of BSE and the major employers in the country and started on the next day of the elections. Therefore, within just a three-month period you have to "hot" for three records. I would like to say this because many people do not know it: a record of redundancies in July when you got out. Part-time record in August as soon as you got out. New jobs reduction record in September. And all that - you know - it's your record. You have the property completely. It's not like the other things you say it's yours, like the SYRIZA-based reduction you're dating and saying it's yours, because the world went to pay September or the widow's pensions that we lawfully legislated in May and attributed in August. And that's what you say it's yours. The others are absolutely yours. They are the results of a great expectation of employers, who heard Mr Mitsotakis talking about a roller and said: New Democracy has now come out. We won't have any control. Let's go buy the job as cheaply as possible and give it to them and ready, if possible, to vote. And I would like to insist on that, Mr Hatzidakis, for you who may try to make a serious criticism. Because from what I understand, we will not have the same fate as the Minister sitting next to you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Do not claim that this bill does not reduce wages. Don't claim it. That's not what we say. It's called the Bank of Greece. I read to you what the Bank of Greece says: 'Direct effect of the bill, lowering private sector wages and reducing the coverage of workers by collective agreements'. And who says that? Your friend, Mr. Stournaras, the commander, says so. I'm not talking about it. This is not what I understood from yesterday's debates, which you do not appreciate very much. Mr Stournaras says that. Well, enjoy him. But today, please double-joy Mr Stournara, gentlemen of the government. Because, today, we are very much learning that corruption prosecutors who investigate the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, in their report to the prosecutors who took over the investigation - and their report has come to the pre-examination committee and has seen the light of publicity - reveal that the then protected witness, which you have then smuggled, and then accused, who you are now hugging and cheering him, was threatened - says the three prosecutors - by Mr Stournara. He invited him to his office at the Bank of Greece to make lunch for him and threatened him. That's what the three prosecutors say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u441	And why didn't they blame him?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u442	Please, your questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u443	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u444	Why didn't they blame him? I'm sorry, but I don't know if you know that the investigation for Mr Stournaras was about - and this is about it - to investigate whether there are serious evidence of criminal prosecution in relation to his money laundering, i.e. whether accounts were found, if the money were found. It wasn't whether he was blackmailing or not blackmailing the protected witnesses. This is a very important case. Why is this a very important case? Because it changes all the effort you have made, and before the elections and after the elections, to convince the Greek people that one of the most important scandals that the country, the 'NOVARTIS scandal', with the overvaluation of NOVARTIS' medicines, was not a scandal, but a construction. And now it turns out that the only construction was your attempt - it seems, Mr Stournaras has to give his answers - to conspire and blackmail judges, prosecutors, in order to cover up this huge scandal. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have three very simple and serious questions to ask: Is it true that Mr Stournaras called on the protected then Maniadakis to intimidate him? I'm reading what the prosecutors said in the report they did. The prosecutors say that Mr Maniadakis transferred them that Mr Stournaras said to him: "When the government changes, he, together with two other political persons, we have decided to beat the prosecutors and the witnesses." If this is true here, if this is true, then I'm afraid you're going with the pre-examination for wool, but you're going to get bolted and, in the end, instead of looking at the construction, your conspiracy will be examined to cover up this scandal. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So we ask, firstly, if all this is true. Because, as we finally saw his statement, the then-protected and now indicted. He changed it by saying that he was supposedly pressed by the prosecutors. Who finally pushed Mr. Maniadakis? Two. Do you realize that if all of this is true, which three denounce, not one prosecutor, this is how violence and threats were exercised to the judicial officers who handled the scandal? The third question and the most important one. Who are the other two? Who are the other two political persons who along with Mr Stournara were planning to beat up the witnesses and prosecutors of corruption who are investigating the 'NOVARTIS' scandal? I, ladies and gentlemen, will not say much about this. I will not say any more, because justice is investigating. I am sure that the answers that we will receive today will be either the ball on the platform or the belligerent infractions and slanders, vulgar characters and diversion misery that concern us. The Greek people, however, understand. I'm asking Greek justice. Because the aim of this case is ultimately Greek justice itself. The conspiracy that was extinct was for Greek justice itself. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] All I have to say is that in the course of the debate on the referral of Papaggelopoulos was empty, it is fortunately full today - it is: Do not dare insist on this misery, to want you to exclude from members of the Committee the main SYRIZA officials who have already participated in meetings of the committee. Don't dare neutralize the pre-examination. It's not going to come out of you! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The glass, whether you want it or not, you'll drink it to the end. You will drink the glass, because as the proverb says "the wing is broken, the evil of his head". Bad of your head for reopening this case that the Greek people know very well that it is scandalous.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u445	In this glass you're drowning!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u446	Cheers! The bill we have in our hands, I said it in introductory terms, and by closing it, is a piece of legislation that illustrates the vile scenery of the new reality that appears in the place. For our part, we are aiming to highlight the truth and aim to mobilise the Greek society against the core of your policy that is anti-popular. We are aiming to keep the country's social fabric uniform from the attack on rights and conquests. And we aim the next day, because we are looking forward, to continue our efforts, so that a genuinely progressive governance can be able to move to a fair, sustainable model of growth, inclusiveness, without rights of interest. The implementation of a grid of reforms to strengthen the country's true development potential is our vision and our goal. It is to stimulate investment, support healthy entrepreneurship, create new well-paid jobs, integrate the economic, social and environmental dimension into a holistic development and productive reconstruction plan. It is the upgrading of the welfare state, because this is, ultimately, the most important indicator of a people's development. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this bill will remain in history and for the great turn it is trying back, but above all for the graceful amendments it contains. It's a string of fine amendments. But this bill will remain in our memory for one more reason. For it is the point of incision, the point that the cycle of grace for your Government closes. The 'thousand days' are over, and the period of grace is over, both by the Greek people and, I believe, by the political forces of the country. Of us, at least, I think you understood, the politeness is over, the frustrations are over, all of this is over. We will be here to denounce your policy, denounce your athletes and be here and in and out of the House. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am committed, in the face of the new employment austerity, to the new police state, to this attempt to impoverish and to the institutional framework, to these arbitrary situations, no Greek citizen, unemployed, young farmer, will be alone. We'll be together to support the effort so soon the place will come out of this nightmare.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u447	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u448	Mr Georgiadis asked for the floor. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u449	It is very reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, after this performance, that Mr Tsipras should leave! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because it is obvious that he has learned, as he does at SYRIZA conferences, just to say what they want to say from below, and if they make no mistakes and vote backwards, to make them change their vote. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But we owe some answers, not to Mr Tsipras, but to the Greek people who are listening. I get into the rest a little, and then I come to the bill I'm interested in. Objection first. He said Mr. Tsipras: "Three prosecutors have accused Mr. Stournara." The 'three prosecutors' said it as a presumption of a serious charge. So listen, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the names of three prosecutors: Yannis Angelis, Eleni Riikos and Mr. Tsatanis. Three prosecutors have accused Mr. Papaggiopoulou of inter-institutional intervention in their work. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I do not understand why the three prosecutors in one case are a great presumption, whereas the three prosecutors in the other were not taken into account at all by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. The answer is simple: because they are the prosecutors who suit you! Because all you judge, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, as they suit you. Well, then, the Greek people on July 7, who really sees and judges and listened for four and a half years to blame us for what you accused us and gave the majority to Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy and to those of us who personally accused us, re-elected us with tens of thousands of crosses. So, indeed, the Greek people see and judge. And he judges correctly, as proved on 7 July. But I have to say a few things that have made me very impressed. Mr Tsipras expressed a reasoning that I would like us to follow him a little bit. He mentioned several articles in the development law and actions and activities that are integrated and matched with a particular person, and in this regard Mr Marinakis. In two-three different articles, Mr Marinakis said: "When Mr Marinakis does this activity, and since you incorporated this activity into the development law, so you work for the great boss." I will read eligible activities under SYRIZA's L.4399/2016. If we did the gifts of the great boss Marinaki, do you not tell me, at the eligible cost of "production on-line content for adults" who is your boss? The guy who makes the on-line movies for adults? Is that your boss? Aren't you telling me, when you joined decorators and models, can you tell me what the exact developmental dimension of decorators and modellers you included in the expenditures of development law and now the pain in mining has caught you? So tell us to figure out what the development dimension of the models you've put into?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u450	Minister, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u451	So, well, because if we start taking them so you'll be very lost, I suggest you stop this shiver. I said yesterday - Mr Tsipras has left, he does not want to hear it - Mr Tsipras thinks he can blame us with speculation and assumptions, but we will not be able to blame him with speculation and assumption. Where did you see that exactly? What code did you see? Well, for the Greek people to know and from the Step of the House, as we said last year, a law more suspicious of corruption to drugs than the latest SYRIZA law has not been passed. It is the first law in the history of the Greek state that allowed price increases to be applied to medicines and, of course, helped "NOVARTIS" to save its prices, as well as other multinationals, through increases in the rest of the planet. So lessons to us, when we dropped the expense, we don't accept it. We delivered, for the Greek people to know, a monthly pharmaceutical cost of 189 million both on SYRIZA and on Mr Polakis back ran for four and a half years with 260 and 270. Do the calculation of 70 million per month for 12 months for four and a half years which government has benefited the pharmaceutical industry in Greece. And they have the face to talk. These are the numbers of the EEA, they are not questionable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u452	Minister, just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u453	Why are you interrupting me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u454	You have asked for the floor, obviously, to give some answers to the President of Officerial Response.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u455	Don't I answer? What's that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u456	Sorry, the time is 20.10. At 22.00 we said that the vote would start. He expects an intervention, which has the right, by the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group. The ministers are in turn in order to speak and of course a large number of speakers. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please! The President of the Parliamentary Group is entitled to speak for two or three minutes. Minister, I should also like to stress, and you know, you are an old parliamentarian, that you are closing down the debate on the bill, where you will obviously have a reasonable time to place yourself there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u457	Mr. Hatzidakis will shut it down. Give me another three minutes and don't interrupt me. As far as development is concerned, I think we have made it clear. The only one in the Chamber who can't talk about this is Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA. As for the pharmaceutical cost and the benefits in the pharmaceutical industry, the only one that can't speak is Alexis Tsipras, Paul Paulakis and SYRIZA. That's all we've done. It's the numbers. But let's go to one, because only one of them talked specifically about Mr. Tsipras and he thinks he's put us in a difficult position. Why have we brought an amendment to Golden Visa? I was hoping he wouldn't, but after he did it, I have to explain to the House how he screwed up. The Golden Visa Act is a law passed by the Samara - Venizelos Conflict. It was voted at the end of 2014. However, it has not been possible to implement it. It applied only to the government of Alexis Tsipras and began to go very well. Over five thousand Golden Visa - one of these four thousand six hundred Chinese nationals - were here until the day the POS was involved, Mr Tsipras said. Be careful, over a billion euros was collected by the Greek economy from these Golden Visa via POS. When I went to the ministry, I found a program about frozen, because the best customers couldn't use the only means they have to buy, but that's secondary. I have found something much worse: I am presenting to this House three - there have unfortunately been dozens of them. I've erased the personal data. If I have missed something from a Chinese woman, please do so - the withdrawal decisions that they have obtained with Golden Visa on account of the use of POS. It is logical that the decentralised administrations, which had granted the residence permit, after seeing that the government decided to legislate against the POS ban no longer took out the subsequent residence permits but withdrew the previous ones. Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what would all these people, who sold them Golden Visa, go to court and ask for their money back and have endless legal disputes with those who sold them apartments? We would have a disaster of the Greek economy and a huge damage to the country's brand. And why did they do it? Why did you do it, gentlemen? I have a big, new suspicion why you did it. Do you know why? Because I received as the Minister of Development something that the previous Minister had. I'll submit it to the Minutes of this House. It is the practical meeting of the Legal Council of the Bank of Greece. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Signatures: Evangelos Perakis, Nikolaos Alvizatos, Dimitrios Giganatos, Ilias Anagnostopoulos, Vassilis Kotsovilis, Ioannis Karcostas. All distinguished lawyers and some and very famous. How does the conclusion of the opinion that Mr Tsipras has left so that he does not listen to it? "And in cases where the introduction of funds from abroad, which are subsequently re-exported by Greece, has been carried out through a credit or debit card. Infringement of the Greek legislation on capital movement controls is therefore not established’. Take the decision of the Bank of Greece's Legal Board. You were given this opinion, but you did not come to the House to correct the problem you had created. Why? Research and this 'why'. To leave us a huge social problem? To let the market all run in the courts and swear Greece on the planet that we fooled them? To run the landlords who had sold the land and ask the Greek State for compensation that allowed the transaction and then cancelled it afterward? Nobody knows. Only you know. [[At this point, the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, to come and correct another flawed failure of yours and to hear it and above, it goes very much. Let's finally have some modesty. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Well, to close it, the bill certainly does no service to any sponsor. And see, ladies and gentlemen, once again, the hypocrisy of SYRIZA. They've been blaming me since yesterday for blaming them, he says, no evidence. And the Chief of Antipopulation came in and said we're legislating photographic articles about our sponsors. Where's Mr. Tsipra's evidence? To understand now that they only want their own yokes and they also lure some into the so - called compulsion. Well, the season really changed. What time, though? Not the one Mr. Tsipras said, but the time you were selling cheeks in Greek society and waving the finger. This time has passed long ago, the Greek people ended it on July 7 by electing Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and from now on you will hear it, as you deserve! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u458	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u459	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u460	At the request of Mr Janakopoulou, I give him my position for a minute, but I do not want any dispute to be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u461	No way for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u462	It can be done. You'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u463	But I don't want any dispute to be made, Mr. Janakopoulou. I have your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u464	If you give your position, the Bureau has no objections. Mr Janakopoulos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u465	Well, look, Mr. Tsipras had anticipated that we were not going to hear any serious criticism from Mr. Georgiadis, and I think that's what we've been watching. [[Protests from the New Democracy Ward]] It seems, however, that Mr. Tsipras had not only discounted it, and Mr. Mitsotakis, who for two days ignored him and today refused to come and attend the House, precisely because he was ashamed not only of the rosés and does not want to be charged, but the greatest possibility is that he was ashamed of Mr. Georgiadis's show yesterday, who did not go to one, did not go to two, he did not go to three, but he did not go to five channels and today he continued this marathon of appearance and he has obviously caused annoying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u466	Is that your dentex?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u467	My dentistry, yes. The very same thing seemed to be due by the present government ministers, who obviously wanted to save themselves from this suffering, to watch Mr Georgiadis as a parliamentary body, and that is why they were asking for the floor, obviously following a political mandate from above. Of course Mr Georgiadis, with his great political displacement, did not allow it. He took the floor and laughed himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u468	Mr Petsas has the floor to make a small contribution to an amendment, and I will immediately give Mr Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u469	Madam President, excuse me. I would like to put forward a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u470	Here, Mr. Pecha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to speak for half a minute. The Chief of Staff Response was mentioned in a joint ministerial decision. Unfortunately, he did not stay in the Chamber to listen to the opponent. He said that we were supposed to want battered employers and unpaid workers. Unfortunately, he read the paper, but not the newspaper of the government. And I quote attributes the amendment to the ministerial decision bearing my signature: An article 4A was added to the FHW which specialises in the aid for all- Greek newspapers. The title is ‘Exemption of aid to workers’. And I quote: "If an enterprise has debts, accrued earnings, holiday allowances, licenses, etc. to workers who are employed at the date of submission of the application for access to the programme shall be obliged to grant the workers the amount of aid which they are entitled to up to the amount of the abovementioned debts. If the amount of aid is not sufficient to cover all the debts mentioned above, the amount of aid shall be allocated proportionately to all workers to whom the undertaking is due.’ I think that this proves who is interested in the workers and who is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u472	Minister, may I apologise. It's my fault. Strictly for five minutes, you have the floor, Mr. Velopole, and then the Minister immediately thereafter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u473	You will allow me to say that there will be more intervention, because others spoke thirty-five minutes and I only speak for fifteen minutes yesterday. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u474	You spoke yesterday, Mr Velopoulos, and you normally took your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u475	The Bureau will be objective and fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u476	Please respect the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u477	We'll respect you if you respect us. We need an equilibrium. I'll respect it as much as I can.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u478	That means that everyone must speak in this Chamber and, above all, the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u479	I'll respect it. Already has time and you're stealing from us about a minute and a half. So let's start the intervention with what we have seen. You know, I'm tired every day to see fake disputes, fake discrepancies. And all this happens at the time of the news. Symptoms are fighting with the Ministers or the Chief of Officerial Response from 19.00 to 20.30. It's show time! One goes out, one says that, and the other answers. And he's answering again to play the lines in the news reports. You know, I'm tired of this story, because I was here before, ladies and gentlemen, long before you came in here. This is an agreed theater of absurdity for communication reasons. Well, you're telling us where you're disagreeing. So let me tell you where you agree and don't tell us where you disagree. In skopje, Greek-Turkish, poachers and the real economy you agree. You just come here and make a disagreement. Mr. Tsipras came and told my friend Adoni Georgiades some things, Adonis spoke, got the word Janakopoulos, spent the time, did our job. Party clientele, party audience. We're fine, we've done our homework. It's not like that. But I'm happy today because we're out of the crisis. Mr. Tsipras said so. We've come out of the crisis. It's already raining money out, Mr. Poppa. It's already raining money. Anyone who wants to go out to collect the euros that fall out of the sky because we have found the crisis! Well, at some point we understand that the crisis exists and there's going to be because we're under commission and we can't find a development plan... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Madam President, please enforce order because this is not the case. At least me and my team, when someone talks, I sit and listen. I'm not talking to anybody, I'm not sitting there talking to someone else. What are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u480	Ladies and gentlemen, please just a little quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u481	That is why the Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, do not respect us. At least let's take off the wage cut that we get while respecting each other. To have mutual respect. I waited patiently for two whole hours, gave my place to other colleagues, while I could intervene, I did not do so. At least respect us. It's just things. Let's go to 'NOVARTIS'. I will only invoke the words that have been heard here: pluralism, threats, blackmail, pluralism. This is not a political system. That's Koza Nostra! These sound on either side, not just on the one hand. So if all of this pleases you, we are not satisfied. And I repeat the rhetoric - but essential - our question. The money lost will be returned? The money the doctors stole, will we get it back from "NOVARTIS"? It's two billion euros. Don't we need them? This is where the Minister said a billion would destroy the economy from Golden Visa. For the two billion "NOVARTIS" will not be destroyed by the state? That's what bothers me and it's essential. Yesterday the Greek Solution made an intervention. He said the bank charges. Today, the Prime Minister has called the bankers in honour and said the following. The Prime Minister asked the bankers! Did the Prime Minister ask the bankers? The Prime Minister should have demanded. And you know why? With so many recapitalisations banks are not bankers but the Greek people! Let's tell the whole truth. Listen, "seek"! To demand, that's the essential thing. The Prime Minister of the country asked the self-evident not to steal with the debit cards, but also with the cards the Greek people, the retired and whoever goes to make an extra. Let's go to the essentials, because I don't want to fool people. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, is this a bill with so many amendments? These are the amendments. Are we all right? Are we blocking our work, anyway, our work? It's unbelievable! How many amendments does he have? It has a total of twenty amendments, of which thirteen are late. Is that how you legislate? Is that what you had as a plan? Is that the vision of the country, the reformist of Mr. Mitsotakis, who promoted a person - if you want - a reformist? Is this how work will continue in Greece? Are we going to make amendments to the leg? Eleven are yours, and it's not yours. No, he's from here too. It's the contractor. The drafting of amendments has been made by both PASOK and SYRIZA. And you know why you're doing this? Because you're serving people. You're making ruffles. You're serving social groups, because you're looking for votes, they're serving too. We're intercepting the Rules of Procedure of the House! We are violating the condition of democracy that the Member of Parliament must be contemplated when he comes in here. How are we going to study the bills? It's the ruffles you actually do every day. There are issues regardless of the bill. What does hydrocarbons now have to do with the development bill, which you will pass with an amendment? You tell me what this has to do with it. I repeat, none. Lignites, fraudulent bank charges, aid for medical checks on animals, aid for affected areas, work in submarines - development and this! - exemption from URBAN property in Florina, they are amendments to amendments. We'll say yes to some. It's for granted. Not because we agree with your logic, but at some point this story must be stopped. Stop the amendments. It's embarrassing! It's not right. Let's go to an amendment by Mr. Stakoura. It's the 69/2019. Basically, you're giving forgiveness to a contractor's cartel. You know that? It is served contractors. Do you understand that? Listen to this: 'Suspension of criminal and administrative measures to those who have been subject to the committee's leniency arrangement'. In other words, the competition committee is punishing them for making a cartel and you put them in the swimming pool of Siloam, and you are acquitting them, the big-workers, the pimps. That's what former Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis told them here. He used to call them pimps. And today you are acquitting them with one amendment, and you are not ashamed, aren't you? Also EUR 80 million is the total fine and EUR 1 billion is the damage to the public. The 1 billion was crying out of Adonish, where we lost from Golden Visa and said the state would go bankrupt. And this story is 1 billion. So let me say it again. You give them the opportunity to participate in public competitions again abusively. And this is illegal for us. You cannot extract illegal contractors. Stop it. Let's go to the bill. You had to change the title: "I invest in Greece and other Marinaic provisions" should be said. That's what the bill should be called. For their friend Marinakis the story, which has newspapers, has televisions. They're afraid of him. They love him. He's a best man. I get it. But so much prestige for Mr. Marinakis, I really can't understand it. As for Mr. Tsipras, tell him that mining gives Greece 3% of GDP. Mr. Tsipras said mining didn't give the GDP. They give 3%. They contribute by at least 3% to our Gross National Product. Therefore, things that do not apply are not said. Let's come over and read sometime. And I'll close so I don't abuse your time. So Mr. Tsipras told us about what his government did. He told us about the wounds that SYRIZA has and it's a merchandise in his body. In the end, you will also become Jobs of SYRIZA. Testimonial procedure! Such a torture of rulership, my child, I didn't think so either. A lot of wounds and a lot of medals! I heard Mr Loverdo saying that at some point SYRIZA, gentlemen of the New Democracy, should apologise for the first semester. So we are giving you ten Members to put the other twenty of you or the PASOK to go to a committee of inquiry to see what Varoufakis or Syriza did in the first half of the year and we have lost billions. For you have been acquitted of Mr Tsipras, which is why I am talking about phony proceedings - for the first half of the year, and that is regrettable for New Democracy. As for the remuneration of EUR 7,600 in the CECF, what can I say? You give them 7,600 euros when you get five and six grand. He'll take the other one, the unsuccessful MP, 7,600 euros. And you bring this number here provocatively, when the other guy takes 700 euros or 600 euros or 400 euros a month. Why are you doing this? What for? To serve the army of praetorians of your candidate failed MPs? Is that why you're doing this? And that's called an equilibrium? Is that what it's called serious governance? I'll tell my friend Adoni Georgiadis about Mr. Mitsotakis. I understand you've learned the Prime Minister's vocabulary. The Greek word Macedonia will be written with "k" and "c" in the products. Did you, gentlemen, hear from Northern Greece? Macedonian products will now be called "k" and others will be called "c"! We're talking about a great brain, about a scary brain, about an einstein genius. You are baptizing the "c" and "k" to change the meaning of the term. Does Macedonia change with Macedonia? Are you all right? Is that how you make politics? So I close with this to end the story. And I'll do it with soul pain. You are attempting in every way, ladies and gentlemen, to call the racist Greeks. You are constantly invoking the racism of the Greeks. And you say that Greeks are racist, in Brasna Greeks were racist. Where the Greek reacts and is not on your doorstep, he is a racist. So I'm going to reverse it, because you're putting the parrots on, the journalists and the channels saying the same thing. It is not a European matter, and I say it at PASOK. I heard Mrs. Gennamas. It is not the issue of poachers, immigrants and European refugees. Unfortunately, it has only become Greek. Europeans do not want to help us. Don't you understand that? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I can't understand your obsession. It's our thing! It is a matter of Greece and the Greeks. So I say, who's a racist? The one who gives EUR 400 per month and EUR 500 per month an allowance to Ibrahim or the one who taxes the Greek one every month? Who's a racist? The man who actually gives a home free of charge and makes confiscations at Greek's house? Who's a racist? The one who gives Ibrahim free phone and the Greek pays? Who's a racist? The one who sent out two hundred thousand Greek birds and wants to bring in a million poachers? So who is racist, based on simple logic? I'll tell you. Racists are all you against the Greeks because you very simply love the ones who come here more than the Greeks! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Closed to say something obvious. Because you keep talking about immigration and the push back. You know, gentlemen, who are in the UN Commission on Human Rights? You know? Have you looked into it? So I'll tell you now. It is Saudi Arabia - where the woman has her for - Pakistan, Somalia, Nigeria, Qatar, Egypt, Cuba, China, Venezuela, Mauritania, Sudan and Libya. It's fun, isn't it? Those who violate human rights in their countries of all women, LGBTKI and homosexuals will become guardians to tell me that I am obliged to accept every Ibrahim. No, gentlemen, that's cut. We will close the border, close the NGOs, take them to the uninhabited islands and end the problem. It's over and out. There is no other solution. Understand it in the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u482	Thank you, Mr. President. The Minister has the floor, Mr Hatzidakis, for ten minutes with relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u483	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras considered that it was a major sin of the New Democracy that was friendly to entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, there's no need to get tired. Yes, we are friendly to entrepreneurship, because we regard it as a lever for the growth of the economy. You alone thought in your own doctrine that investment could be made without investors and employees without businessmen. In the vote of the Greek people, we make this shift, which is a basic condition for the country to move forward. And because you can't understand that spirit, you think we're doing favors. So you, who did not do well - and I am referring to the person you referred to, Mr Marinakis - I want you to say something to me. You in the contest, which fell on the Council of State, did not give Mr Marinakis a channel, and then did Mr. Pappas say so? I'm not saying it was a favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u484	Are these serious things?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u485	I'm saying your logic, Mr. Pappa. You gave it a channel, you announced it with pleasure to the President of the Republic, and then Mr Marinakis has said it without disproved - he was going to Maximos every three minutes. Then you did not mind Mr Marinakis, he was not connected to everything you connect, now you remembered them. You want both yours and your scales. Well, people know, see and judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u486	The difference is we made him pay while you pay him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u487	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u488	But we're not going to spare you. Mr. Tsipras said, speaking of the economic logic of this bill, that this bill reminds us of the causes of the crisis, because Greece fell out. Greece fell out, that is, because Greece was friendly to entrepreneurship. Yes, sir. Look, this is your assessment. And, of course, because it is your appreciation, you have therefore supported it after the turn you have made - fortunately, thank God - in the summer of 2015 in relation to the euro. That is why, obviously, because you believe all this about entrepreneurship, you have adopted twenty-nine taxes in the four-and-a-half years that you have stayed in power. For that reason, because you believe this about entrepreneurship, you have brought an entire bill, with which you have abolished ours before, which many anticipated from 2014. And if we were to simplify licensing from 2014, today would be different for growth, for unemployment, and for the prospects of young people. There was a horizontal simplification of authorisations and you abolished it by limiting the sectors only to three. Get out of the way. They are SYRIZA nomics, SYRIZA's finances, which Mr. Tsipras supports. Mr Tsipras came to us today with one - I do not want to describe it - but very strange political and economic perception to move our fingers and tell us that everything was fine in the years that SYRIZA ruled. Everything was fine, because among other things, you have founded - now five to six months before you fall - the Development Bank, which is the Development Bank - everyone who knows about these issues - is very simply a empty shirt, the evolution of the EIF. And the president of SYRIZA came today to brag about this great feat. He did, of course, tell us that in the four and a half years yours - not to make it very complicated - the gap between Greece and the countries of the European Union financially, from the point of view of the Gross National Product, has been widened, has increased the gap that separates us from the other countries of the European Union, because we were looking into the progress of Ireland, Portugal and Cyprus with binoculars. That was your development policy, you of today's prosecutors. But forget something more important that, while everything went well, you lost the election. Why are you losing the election? This reminds us of the "surgery has succeeded, but the patient has passed away". Hey, ladies and gentlemen, there were some reasons why you missed the election! So instead of swinging the finger on this hundred - day government, look at yourself. A little polite politics doesn't at last hurt! It doesn't hurt! Look at your mistakes. 30% -31% of the Greek people voted for you. You must, first and foremost, have basic political responsibility for your own voters. Mr. Tsipras told us that the memos are over. There's no memos. Bravo! Apparently, I live in vision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u489	Is there a memorandum?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u490	For these days, Mr Pappa, we are negotiating to close the new review with the European Commission and the other institutions - as they are now called - and we are holding meetings. And I make meetings for PPC and energy. Why do we make these meetings? Hobbies? Do we have any reason to do such meetings if the country is free from surveillance and from the troika? I would also like to make a few other comments on Mr Tsipras' comments. Mr Tsipras reminded us that it is against mining enterprises, which, of course, contribute to GDP, contribute to 3.5% of GDP, and we obviously consider that mining activity is a business that contributes to growth and creates jobs. Do we believe that by accident? We cannot, of course, follow you on these specific issues, because you have the world record, which you have achieved a few days ago in Parliament. We brought here, without a single party changeing your own oil contract, which you signed ten days before the elections on 27 June 2019, which Mr. Tsipras had said at the time as Prime Minister, and you, leaving all of us here instantly, refused to vote on. Well, we don't have that policy. We don't have a flag of opportunity in relation to entrepreneurship. We are firmly in favour of entrepreneurship, because we consider it a prerequisite for the country to go forward. From there on I want to make another comment on the media. Mr. Tsipras appeared as the wrongdoer of media, the one who did not support him, who had no voice to hear! Yes, sir. But tell me, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA - and I think that all Greeks might understand exactly what is happening - that it is justified, even in the last years of SYRIZA, that SYRIZA's percentages were falling, to open up new newspapers that were supporting the SYRIZA line. How can the same thing be justified on the websites, was it a coincidence, was it a failure of nature or are you not as innocent as you want to be present? Do you think we're gonna be quiet, listen to this demonstration of political hardship and not give you any answers? We do not want to blame anyone, but there are too specific numbers and specific incidents here. And I'm on my way to work. Mr. Tsipras presented here a Armageddon that workers will be destroyed. Well, listen. He talked about lowering pay for hotels. Write it: The hotels will not be reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u491	Excuse me, here's the study!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u492	And the best witnesses, Mr Pappa, will soon be the workers in hotels who will judge you and me, for what we are talking about. Of course you cannot create artificial confusion for units that are in bankruptcy or bankruptcy. What do you want us to do about these units? Shall we give them another push and fall into the cliff with them and the workers who work in these units? That is why we also anticipate these special operational contracts, which will be something new. We have said so with courage and vigilance before the elections, and indeed on several occasions. And we say something very simple: if an enterprise themselves is in danger and the workers themselves find it with the employer, it is not a question of either Mr Mitsotakis or Mr Tsipras or anyone else taking care of them before them. We add, in fact, a specific provision that all jobs must be maintained in these contracts. At some point, then, it should end the distortion. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Yeah, should I tell you something else? Because we're not gonna give you anything and know that thing. You keep talking about workers, workers, workers. Elections took place three months ago. Who have the workers, you or us voted majority? The whole world knows - all the polls said, all the exit Polls - that more employees voted here, despite yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u493	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u494	Because the workers after they tried you, after they tried SYRIZA's pudding they realized that pudding was really bitter. Because workers don't need words. They need projects. Workers have realised that the main prerequisite for the country to move forward is investment. It also has the title "I invest in Greece". This is the A and A of progress. This is done throughout Europe and in all the advanced countries internationally. Now if you stay with this reading of history and economy, it's your problem. But your problem will not be a problem for Greek citizens. And one final comment. SYRIZA is proud of the primary surplus - with which he created these great pillows, which we do not know what to do - of the 11 billion euros in the Bank of Greece. I think that more than the primary surplus of the economy, it characterises you as a primary surplus of political courage and arrogantness. That's what I understood from Mr. Tsipras' position. It was not just that there was no sign of self-criticism three months after the elections. It was mainly this public prosecutor's style, which offends the intelligence of the average Greek citizen. Mr. Tsipras thinks he did all right, that the people owe him about it. No, the people don't owe you. You owe the people. You owe an apology first of all for the lies you have said, for the backwardness that you brought to the country, for your amiable failure. And if you find the courage to say this apologies, people may listen to you, or you'll spend many years on the counterpopulation benches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u495	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I will call on the Minister of Health, Mr. Kikilia, to develop his amendment. You have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u496	Madam President, I need twenty seconds, not five minutes. It is an amendment that relates to two things, first one hundred and twenty doses, as it had been in the previous bill, which has been defined since 2013 and then retrospectively, from 2012, so that the similar arrangements can be made for the holders of a marketing authorisation. And the second part of the amendment is about the tasks of an intermediate management body in the Ministry of Health operational programmes. In other words, if we are to be able to speed up the absorption of the NRP funds in the eyes of an interim managing authority, by decision of the Minister for Development or the regional manager, it is the authority that is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u497	We too, Minister. I call to Stepma the MEP of SYRIZA Mr. Mamulaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u498	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, over the four years 2015-2019 there has been an impressive progress in institutional reforms to improve the entrepreneurial environment and to assist entrepreneurship. In this area, the previous government has shown impressive consistency in implementing reforms, with a look to assist investment, with respect for the environment and with care for the public interest and public security, with minimal dulls and impressive efficiency, as these changes were not only passed but were implemented. Let me examples: Land register, simplifying one-stop-shop licensing to businesses, new law on public procurement and concession contracts, known laws. See Annex 'Question Time'. 4413, which shielded the institutional framework for studies and project executions, a new institutional framework for spatial planning, a comprehensive electronicisation of the system for issuing building permits, a new institutional framework for strategic investment and, of course, a new development law. This bill is the New Democracy's response to four-year reform efforts. Inspiring, without any incision that may displease the country's enthusiastic interests, with a multitude - let me - totalitably cast down, dispersed photographic provisions. With this text Mr Georgiadis looks like a bad student in SYRIZA's work. It has taken care to study well and underline every point at which the legislator of the previous government has added provisions that were designed for the public interest and the protection of the environment. And what's he doing in the end? It shall diligently remove one of those provisions. On this point, let me turn to issues relating to the technical sector and because of my capacity. Only ten days before the elections of the Chamber of Deputies we have this sudden change, during the term of office of the institutions, but also at the level of institutional movements, such as Article 7, the central licensing system, which can only be described as a plasticiser, since all kinds of authorisations for the construction of public and private works are henceforth granted. So, in essence, all projects are being drawn up, supervised and implemented in general. It is very important that we should expose it. We have, of course, seen a few minutes ago and an amendment, where the RIS at last enters into this, and it is not a matter of the Ministry of Development. That really surprised us in the first place. On a matter of local self-government, and I think that we have lived through it at noon and now, as there are movements outside Parliament of protest. Article 179: Full degradation of the centre-weight and particularly cost-effective services for the first-grade OTAs, in particular, such as green services, such as maintenance, collection, duplication and, of course, recycling in the municipalities. So, then, we achieve the bourgeoisie deforestation of all these first degree LAGs, of the municipalities, following the logic of one to five, and of course we achieve the complete degradation of the municipalities so that in a few years it will be completely ballast for the local and non-contractors concerned. And since we are discussing local selfgovernment, let us also say an amendment concerning the FODs. As a matter of fact, Mr Grafakos and Mr Theodorikos did not legislate properly a month ago, which has brought us a last minute amendment again, and we now have this, an amendment that jeopardises all the funding that was provided by the SYRIZA Government, because it changes the will through the local Regional Associations of Municipalities, and indeed in Crete they have a special treaty on it, and of course there is a risk of extensions of the projects due to the tectonic change in the nature of these PVCs. Speaking these days of development and structural reforms, it makes sense to discuss the biggest problem of the Greek businessman, which I think is the biggest obstacle to Green Field Investment in this country in the absence of spatial planning. All problems in this country and all peculiarities in the institutional licensing framework start from there. Think about it a little. For example: Installation permit, Greek originality. The absence of a real estate register, Greek peculiarities. Specific spatial investment development plans and all previous ad hoc location settings. Patenta a la creca. And of course there is also the biggest environmental sin in this country or outside the construction plan. All the above peculiarities have been legitimized in the history of the Greek state and face a unique problem, the absence of integrated spatial planning and the absence of well-defined land use throughout the territory. What did we do about all this? We voted for a law on spatial planning. We proceeded with the extradition of regional spatial planning. We did competitions that are being worked out by all the sectoral spatial planning sectors. We set limits on the logic of ad hoc location and special villagers...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u499	Ladies and gentlemen, you are making a lot of noise. There's a speaker at the Step and there's nothing in the Chamber. Please respect him very much. Respect this House, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u500	It would be useful if Mr. Georgiadis could listen to the placement. Of course, we went ahead with the completion of the realisation. What are you doing for all this with this bill? As far as spatial planning is concerned, I mean. Firstly, you are abolishing or rather making pre-authorisation optional in spatial plans, as a check of compatibility with the specific spatial plan and the national spatial planning, is now in the discretion of each type of investor. Secondly, by violating both the logic of universal spatial planning and the reasoning with which we have secured an open financial line with the EIB, the European Investment Bank. Thirdly, you are promoting the abolition of restrictions on the installation of industrial units in large urban centres through the abolition of barriers to installation permits. The reindustrialisation of the Lecade is going to happen here. We'll see it along the way. I would also like to refer to this monument of poor urban legislation under Article 205.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u501	It's five minutes of your speech and you're almost seven, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u502	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no previous case of the complete circumvention of urban legislation. None, Mr. Economou. Every previous attempt to draw up a legislative text that exceeds the planned volumes under the building regulation in question, some reference was made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u503	Mr. Colleague, take time from your colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u504	I'm done. The legislator's study to describe the special architecture design as a category capable of bypassing any provision of NOK is rather excessive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u505	Mr Colleague, this is disrespectful to your colleagues. Please very much. Mr. Colleague, you know they're fifty more people to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u506	I'm hanging up. Article 205 could simply say "if you know the right person, in the right place you build what you want". To make it easier for the investment public at all times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u507	Now what can I say, Mr. Comrade? What can I say? You know that there is a list and colleagues are waiting. We're on number ninety. Mrs. Aeger will speak, and we need to go to number one hundred and twenty two. Our colleagues will be without a speech. I don't think that's right. Isn't that right? That's what we need to think about. When we go up to the Step and have written the speech, I think we can be consistent in time. Mrs. Avgeris, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u508	Thank you very much, Madam President. There is an economic and political concept, according to which work is the key, decisive and crucial pillar for development. It is clear that this concept does not mean this infamous New Democracy development bill that we are discussing these days and will be voted against by us in a short time. For our part - on the left, in the progressive world - when we talk about work, we talk about people who work, who have rights, who care about the present and future of the business where they work, and not just about a necessary harm that the employer is loading on, to get the job out of hand as cheaply as possible with disposable workers, whose choices are, or bend their heads or who are unemployed. For our part, we are talking about work in which decent wages and conditions are guaranteed. We're talking about work, which gives the worker real prospects. So it also gives the company perspective. For us in Greece it means investing in the comparative advantages of the country and its human resources. This human potential as the starting point and arrival of a development project is not the perception of the New Democracy and Europe's right-wing governments. It is not the perception of those for whom "I invest in Greece" means "I make predators in Greece". It is not the perception of those who see work as an obstacle to growth by prejudicing precarious work, the work in which the law of the mighty prevails every day. That is how you know, mainly, investment in the developing world. The bodies of these perceptions did not hide it in the years of the memorials and do not hide it now either. They continue to bomb public opinion with views that say either little or no more that labour market interventions are prerequisites, to relaunch the economy and achieve competitive rates in the name of competitiveness. The opposite was, of course, seen before 2015, and market deregulation also had economic stagnation with few investments. So today we are living again, ladies and gentlemen, the same tale as changed formalities and central characters, so that we are not reminded of the first years of the memorandum. The interventions on the labour market are, in fact, the same as before 2015. The so-called new development is driven by the neo-conservative and neo-liberal concept that says that for there to be growth, there must be flexible forms of work, low wages and workers who live in insecurity. It is the same old bad concept that says that in order to produce wealth, the employer must first be assured and then the worker. In fact, the employer must be guaranteed at all costs to the detriment of the worker. Where all this wealth went every time workers lost rights, all statistics recorded it. Open the scissors, increase in income and social inequalities. If I focus, at the moment when the process ends, on the working provisions of this bill after and on the objection of unconstitutionalism which has been raised on them, it is because, in the election campaign, the New Democracy spoke about the economics of the offer, but omission to explain that they are accompanied by deregulation in the labour market. And now comes slowly - it's time of truth. Ladies and gentlemen, the efforts of the last four years 2015-2019 were not painless, but they have had tangible results and gained goals. One would expect New Democracy to take the opportunity to finalise the IMF memorandum obsessions and recipes. He didn't get burnt land, but solid bases. But it is another thing that you want to build, prioritising what ideologically, from a liberal point of view, you propose that, as an attempt, you try to resettle for once and for all, burdening workers and those who move to the limits of poverty. The question that is diligently concealed by the government and now and when the New Democracy was a strong opposition, is what kind of development we want. Development can also be with impoverished workers. Development can also be with slaves. Development can also have large social groups on the margin. Development and even versatile can have a developing economy with beastly social inequalities. Here, then, we see that the New Democracy once again puts the business contracts over the sector. This is only supposed to be done when there is no agreement between the social partners. Can you all the things that have been described by my fellow Members in Civicism and other opposition parties, all that you have today in the bill you have introduced in the House, can you tell them and explain them to the ordinary people you promised better days? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u509	Thank you very much, too. Mr Melas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u510	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we leave the past behind and fight for the future. We're coming to today. What does the government do since 7 July with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis? We are all working together hard, government and MPs to do what we have committed. Day after day, a bill with a bill, we rebuild the government's confidence relationship with society. For all of us in the New Democracy, from the Prime Minister to the last Member, the consistency with the commitments we have made to the Greek people and the implementation of our election commitments for the development of the country with new investments, new and better paid jobs, the fight against bureaucracy, the use of technology and the optimisation of the services provided by the state to citizens, the reduction of taxation, the reduction of HISA, the state's organization - yesterday the Prime Minister announced and the suspension of VAT on construction - and much more, they are good news and we will implement them to the end. The draft law we are debating today is another step. But a great step on this route that we still have a long way to go by the end of the four-year period. "I invest in Greece" is the backbone of our policy for the years to come. Greece, unfortunately, still has the highest unemployment rate in the European Union of 17.2%, while the European Union average is at 6.3%. Improving the indicators of the economy is our main objective and this will not be done without any substantial degression of unemployment. The de-escalation of unemployment certainly does not come from the public sector. The de-escalation of unemployment comes, creating conditions for new investments, for new jobs. Our strategic choice, therefore, is all these articles contained in the draft word for word under discussion on the implementation of our commitments. Whether you agree or disagree, at least you must recognise us that we are consistent with our ideas, our principles and our commitments. Everything we promised the Greeks we were doing is doing. All the rest that we have heard both at the meetings of the committee which has been drafted by the bill and in this Chamber are concrete products that you have on the private initiative. I would like to turn to the private initiative, because there has been a lot of talk in this Chamber about Article 179 of the bill. What does Article 179 of the bill say? The fact that private individuals can undertake cleaning and greenery services to the municipalities. This possibility is granted to the municipalities, provided that a decision is taken by the City Council, which shows that waste and other operations are not collected. I served the local government and the Municipality of Piraeus for almost ten years. The picture we have seen in the last few days with the mountains of waste in the streets, next to schools, in playgrounds, in parks where young children play, is embarrassing and I think that's something we all agree on. I respect the right to strike workers. The question, however, is whether they respect the protection of public health and the health of citizens and young children. Should we not give solutions to mayors and municipal councils when they have to deal with problems of this kind for too long? Should we not prioritise the protection of public health? But return to the essence of today's bill. With today's draft law we are ambitious to provide solutions to these issues and we aim to create a modern, stable, clear and investment-friendly framework investment that can effectively encourage existing and candidate investors within and outside Greece. A large proportion is the granting of licences and opinions within an exclusive deadline of forty-five days. No investor will be hostage to any bureaucracy anymore. What's our difference? Our difference in terms of large and strategic investments is what we have seen with the Greek one. How the Greek with SYRIZA was and how the Greek with New Democracy was.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u511	What's he like?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u512	In two months' time, the New Democracy Government has also adopted the necessary joint ministerial decisions to implement the project and the Buddhists are expected. SYRIZA until 2015 was against the investment in Greek. It took two years as a government, because you ask me, for the signature of the Presidential Decree and it took another twenty months from the signature of the Presidential Decree, to block the investment in the Greek through a joint ministerial decision. That's our difference, then. We speed up the investments, and you put brakes and obstacles. If at the end of this four-year period we have succeeded in the investments our policies will bring, to be half the strikes caused by the minorities who serve you, then make sure that we have succeeded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u513	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister of State, Mr. Gerapetritis, has the floor for seven minutes and immediately after Mr. Kyranakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u514	Madam President, thank you very much. The bill under discussion contains provisions, which refer to the question of state organization. I would first like to refer to this matter. It contains provisions designed to remove disputes that have arisen, such as the question of the possibility of authorising general and special secretaries for responsibilities and signature or the issues relating to the possibility of independent authorities to place the organograms on their own means rather than through the supervision of ministries. It contains provisions which bring the economy to a standstill, such as the provisions relating to the possibility of delegation of administrative and financial support to the General Secretariat of the Presidency of the Government, Vice-Presidents, the Minister of State and the Deputy Minister of State to the Prime Minister, containing provisions aimed at saving and rationalising resources, such as the issues that concern the abolition of the possibility of posted officials and seconded persons working in various positions within the private offices. In addition to this in the bill, a number of provisions are contained, which are developmental. "Investing in Greece" is not a genius, it is a reality that is recorded. The basic principles are five: Voting the state. I am referring to the Single Digital Charter, an important innovation, as well as to the Single Register, in the National Infrastructure Register, which will actually improve the functioning of state infrastructure, simplify procedures through the National Simplification Programme, which will tend to clarify procedures, codify procedures, codify legislation and simplify legislation. Also to simplify procedures in the GFCM. Accelerate justice through digitisation of procedures, obligation to lodge documents by electronic means, so as to speed up the notification and decision-making process. Fourthly, it is mobilisation, especially in businesses that will settle in business parks. A practice that exists in Europe and actually creates a framework within which, with strong incentives, industrial and commercial activities are established. Finally, the strengthening of innovation through the National Council for Research and Innovation, which will consist of persons of very high prestige, through which there will be innovative actions to improve the image of Greek innovation. In conclusion, I would like to point out that I have listened very carefully to the Chief of Officerial Representation referring to the issues of the bill, between other issues he raised and, obviously, they are not related to development. I would like to point out that what was missing from the speech of the Chief of Staff, was documentation. I have not even heard an indicator or a number that can substantiate the evidence he has mentioned. It is well known that there is a difficulty in documenting the reason why it is sometimes from the officers of the Officerial Response. For this reason, I shall mention very specific indicators, which are precisely mentioned in terms of the draft legislation, namely development. These indicators are too specific. I will take as an example the two most related countries in terms of both growth potential and population, Greece and Portugal. Greece, 2014, has a growth of 0.7% and Portugal 0.8%. In other words, parallel growth in almost relevant indicators. In 2015-2016 Portugal has gone to 3.8% and Greece has a recession of 0.6%. Overall in the four years 2015-2018 Portugal developed at a rate of 9.8% and Greece at a rate of 2.8%. A huge differentiation with regard to indicators, which are absolutely undeniable. Get the image of spreads, which is the image of the real economy in the secondary market. In June 2014, the value of spreads, the spreads value is 436 basis points. In May 2019, i.e. with the end of the government mandate of the previous government, it has reached 354, a reduction of some eighty units. Within four months, in October 2019, since 354 we have been in 168, almost 60% reduction of spreads, while the decrease for a whole four years was around 25%. Finally, because there was one element mentioned by the Chief of Staff, and that was the reference to a report from the Bank of Greece which was referring to the fact that labour rights are being lost. I am not sure that this report has been tabled, and I am not sure that it refers to the same report, but there is a report from the Bank of Greece on this bill. Of course, the Bank of Greece does not only refer to a reduction in labour rights and a recession, but it says very specifically that the bill you have per hand will contribute to a growth that is expected to be five units over the next decade, a real launch of growth, and 0.5 units through insurance controls. Evidently you are in a difficulty when evidence is reported. I understand that because you do not use evidence in your word. That's the reality. So let me mention what the Bank of Greece says to hear about it. The findings of the report are as follows: "This draft law tends to reduce effectively the burden on companies, to enhance the efficiency of the market by improving wages and productivity, which has a positive impact on employment and ultimately on investment, to improve the efficiency of the product market by 40% greater impact on GDP". It refers to the bill in question, ladies and gentlemen. And it continues: "It is a successful improvement of an entrepreneurial environment and a wider institutional framework, which will increase the overall productivity and potential of the economy, measures to strengthen new investment projects, a markedly positive impact on investment, product market, labour, transfer to activities, reduction of the para-economic situation". This is the development bill with elements rather than with airplanes, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u515	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u516	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u517	You will allow me, Minister, to give the floor to Mr Kyranakis, because I have already announced him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u518	I just want to say again, because I did not hear before, that I asked the Bureau to speak for two minutes, to say information which disproves what Mr Tsipras said about unemployment, ELSTAT and 'ERGAN'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u519	Minister, I will give you the floor only two minutes after Mr. Kyranakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u520	All right, Madam President, I'll just quote the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u521	Mr. Kyranakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u522	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think the plan has been overanalyzed, most of the arguments on both sides have been heard. I would like to focus on some of the points, some of the criticism arguments in terms of work and the provisions concerning Mr Brutsi, meaning the criticism of the opposition to Mr Brutsis. I am listening to colleagues from Opposition to criticise the possibility of this bill being given to a company facing major economic problems, which is over-debted and which wants to find a way out. You mind very much, allowing an operational contract to prevail in the collective, sectoral. I want you to see, since you think the previous policy is charitable and the previous policy of the SYRIZA government favours workers, what has happened in your day. Let's see a few padlocks that entered from 2015 to 2019: "ELECTRONIC ATHENS", a lock and four hundred fifty people on the road. "FRONERI", closed the factory in Taurus, a hundred two workers on the road. "ATHENS LYDRA", a locker there, a hundred fifty workers lost their job. "SECURITY" means a lock, eight hundred people on the road. ‘TRAVEL PLANET’ and ‘AIRTICKETS’, three hundred on the road. "IMAS" factory, also, a lock and a hundred unworked workers. "JET OIL" more than six hundred stations have been closed, and of course all the people on the street have of course been shut down. In order to begin, Minister, the real rescheduling of the economy, one more locker had to be put into the government of SYRIZA, the lock on the ideas of a government that never believed in investment and in genuinely amicable policy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In four and a half years government, instead of opening up businesses and coming to the country investments that could create well-paid jobs, beyond Brain drain, we had the business Drain. The first economic activity in Bulgaria is the Greek companies that left on SYRIZA. A second point of criticism is the collective agreements. We have heard all these years that we have heard many times, colleagues from New Democracy, that for some reason we had abolished collective agreements in the previous government. Every time work comes in a debate here in this House or in a media debate, colleagues from SYRIZA accuse us of abolishing collective agreements and that we were completely unaltered. Especially you, Mr. Brutsi. So let's go see what this irreversible government has done. I read here: On 13 May 2014 a collective labour contract was signed in OSE. How were collective labour agreements abolished and in 2014 with a New Democracy Government have we had a collective labour contract in the OSE? I also read in the “left.gr” official SYRIZA website: “OTE, signed a new business collective agreement”, dated 24-5-2013.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u523	And the O.R.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u524	And OSH, Mr. Economou, that's right. Or "left.gr" replicates false news or you have to revise your rhetoric, because they are also lying. The last point of criticism, Madam President, if I have another minute, is the decision on the strike, to which the former Minister of Labour, Mrs Ahtsioglou, has criticised too. We therefore have this phenomenon. "50% plus 1" is this policy for which so much are protesting forces from the Left, it is your own policy, which, in fact, you wanted to pass on to Mr Pappa's unrelated bill. Mr Papapas had brought a bill for ELLAS SAT, the satellite, and that was where Mrs Ahtsioglu had an amendment, which forced trade unions to pass decisions with '50% plus 1'. He withdrew it, due to reactions, and a month after a new law, again irrelevant, he put the amendment '50% plus 1'. These are the criticisms of SYRIZA, which have no basis at all. Be serious, finally. Make a serious opposition or join us in trying to bring investment in Greece, because now is the time to send a strong message to the whole world. Now is the time to invest in Greece and bring jobs so that the country can move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u525	Thank you, too. The Minister for Labour has now been given the floor for two minutes, as he has asked me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u526	Madam President, I would first like to put forward a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u527	You're messing with me today. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u528	Please, I'm very much tabling a legislative improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u529	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u530	Madam President, thank you very much. I intervene on a point of order, because I believe that the House is an area in which at least our positions and, above all, from the Chief of Staff of the former Prime Minister, when he is placed with data, what he must say must be accurate and correct. We can't play with lies, disperse false news, something SYRIZA did all the previous period, as counterpopulation and as government. In any case, however, we have entered a new political period which we must at least tell the truth. I appreciated that in his speech Mr. Tsipras would say something about the hundreds of thousands of pensioners, about the one million fifty-eight thousand loose ends left in the Ministry of Labour a heavy legacy. He didn't say anything about it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I thought he'd say something about part-time workers. Nothing, one in three and a majority in the new recruits. I thought that he would say something about our own legislative initiatives, about 12% in favour of part-time workers, about the electronic register which would record infringements. Nothing, the same words known as this policy or known from the past. But I come to say a few facts in the House, which cannot be concealed, because they are against the truth, in fact. What did Mr. Tsipras say? He said just now in his speech that a record of the New Democracy, in the three months that we have been ruling, we have managed to break up the economy in the three months. Listen to what he said. In three months we have broken up in the labour market. I'm reading the evidence. It is crucial, Madam President, for restoring the truth, and I wish Mr Tsipras either apologise or abdicate those who gave it to him because he is being exposed. ELSTAT: Unemployment July 2019, because he said a moment ago: 'You ruled in July', 16.9% unemployment. July 2018, 19.9%. So, Mr Tsipras, 2.2% of the New Democracy in the first month that we have been accused of worsening the labour market. Listen. In July 2019, the employees increased by fifty - nine thousand five hundred nine compared to July 2018, an increase of 1.5% in July that we were ruling. In July 2019, the unemployed fell by nine thousand five hundred seventy-seven compared to July 2018, a decrease of 12.1%, gentlemen of SYRIZA. ELSTAT Source, Press Release October 10, 2019, ELSTAT's most up-to-date data. This is the answer to Mr Tsipras on the first part of the labour market with details of ELSTAT. Is that what Mr. Tsipras doubts? I'm on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u531	Madam President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u532	‘ERGANIS’. In the quarter of July, August, September, the three months that we are ruling, Mr. Janakopoulos, protesting and accepting lying in here asynchronously, but you will get official answers true, which you cannot tolerate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u533	I accept yours and I can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u534	In the quarter, therefore, this balance of "ERGANI", which you were questioning in the past, and then you were emblematic, we had less than eight thousand nine hundred and twenty-nine. Last year, however, they were less than nine thousand eight hundred two. We had a positive difference of three months with the New Democracy Government of eight hundred and seventy-three. That's the truth. Where are the negative records, Mr. Tsipras? And I end up with part-time work. In parttime work, then, in September 2019, full-time, the most up-to-date "ERGAN", was 41.74% with flexibles at 58.26%. In September 2018, full-time was 40.89%, while flexible 59.11%, i.e. we had an increase in total employment of 0.85%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u535	What are you comparing in September 2018 with September 2019? Jesus, leave the lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u536	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u537	You can't stand the truth, gentlemen of SYRIZA! You'll be here and you'll hear the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u538	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u539	Madam President, I have completed. Thank you very much for the time that you have given me, but the Chief of Staff can't come here with false evidence. Appoint those who gave it to him or ask for public apologies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u540	You hide two days and he's coming here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u541	Ladies and gentlemen, please, we are very much trying to keep a level in the Chamber and to finish. Please, the more you yell, the more this process will not end, and this is a shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u542	Madam President, it has taken the floor four times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u543	The Minister answered. As I gave the Minister more time, I think that I have given your colleagues more time and much more time. I'm not unfair, you know, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u544	He didn't have the courage to bring his own bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u545	Please. I will now continue with the MPs. Mrs. Scottra has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u546	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the fact that Mr Tsipras is still in the sphere of deception, misinformation and confusion, let us come to the point that we are discussing today. "I invest in Greece", then, three words conducive to the invitation and promise of the Mitsotakis Government that the investment landscape in the country is changing, evolving and becoming friendly, attractive and appropriate. Three words condensing the decision, addressing pathogens and structural weaknesses with specific goals and vision, trust in its people try to create, bloom economic and hence socially in a modern development model. They are confusing our strong beliefs in the country's comparative advantages and the unlimited opportunities in the Greek demonium, as well as in the interest of strategic investors. Three words that touch the core of our ideology and private initiative and act on our commitments to rapid, sustainable and long-term development. Because that is exactly what regulations and changes in entrepreneurship, faster procedures for investment licensing, the entry of vows into licensing, the reduction of bureaucracy, the fewer documents in GFCM, the five-year planning of the Public Investment Programme, improvements in labour and measures to combat undeclared work. In other words, it cures the timeless lack of integrated fixed investment and development planning. Ladies and gentlemen, our outstanding political position has been and is attracting investment. A prerequisite for this is the creation of the right environment. Some may have made a doro, distorted working arrangements, but the core of the changes relates to radical change in the investment landscape of Greece, that is, what we need today. Statement has so far not helped, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. I bring an example to my region. Karditsa is Greece's second poorest law, although it is productive law with fertile plains, with beautiful mountains, with remarkable human potential in the geographical center of the territory. What does the Cardinal expect to get out of this situation? Of course, Mr Ministers, it awaits completion of Acheloos's works and the completion of E-65, I mean the northern sector, but it also awaits jobs that will only be created through investment. Farmers are expecting processing units of their primary production, which will offer new dynamics to the local economy. How does the government intend to succeed in attracting strategic investments? I'm filing. With incentives to set up investment in business parks, with incentives to attract strategic investments of EUR 15 million or more, to create a Single Digital Charter on spatial data where every citizen can have directly simple, valid, complete and free information on issues such as land use, construction conditions, temporality, agialos and forests. It speeds up by entrusting sworn auditors to evaluate and monitor investment projects. Today, more than two and a half thousand files are being poured out, and it is tragic for a country looking for investors. It creates a National Infrastructure Register, sets out undeclared work deterrents and speeds up the judicial process, which is very important and much more. Ladies and gentlemen, the details have been discussed and I am focusing on the political substance and I ask the dissidents: with whom do you disagree? Do you disagree with the improvements that unlock millions investment? Do you disagree with the arrangements against undeclared work? I note that, according to a study by the Bank of Greece, when these provisions are implemented, the impact on GDP will be plus 5 points in ten years. Eventually, however, is the difference due to the recent loss of governance? Obviously your failure to absolute prevalence over the bourgeoisie is hurting you. And we feel your pain. But what can I say? I see your spasm reactions that you woke up the syndicates from the lethargy that had fallen in the past four years. You are finally looking back, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population. Listen, your proposals concerning the real improvement of regulations are always heard by this government. When you shout, however, just to create impressions, your reactions to know will fall into the blank. For quite simply the people have given the present government a very clear mandate to develop and create new wealth. And you once took that order. However, anachronistic perceptions and policies sent you wealth and growth elsewhere and brilliant minds and many of the businesses. Look in our neighborhood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u547	Your Honor, you have to finish. You asked me for a minute and you're already talking a minute longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u548	I shall conclude, Madam President. And thank you for your tolerance. We are therefore voting in favour of this bill, because we are looking forward and looking at the future. You are rather behind, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u549	Mr. Stoltides from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for five minutes. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Dritsa will speak with SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u550	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of capitalist restructuring, whether in a time of crisis or in a period of development, is clearly unsatisfactory. It is inappropriate for government policy regardless of party change. The aim and the multi-brand plan brought by the New Democracy is to implement even better the requirements of business groups from where the SYRIZA Government left them, bringing closer to the constant and enthusiastic desire of the employer, to have workers flexible twenty-four hours a day and, in fact, with the minimum pay. The overpowering of contracts of associations of persons, local branches, business vis-à-vis sectoral collective labour agreements, the invoicing by employers of unfavourable economic data and the exploitation of a series of exceptions, special economic zones, the inadmissibility of referral to arbitration, try to seal all the doors for the application and extension of a sectoral collective labour agreement. It opens up, in other words, the possibility of full compression of the average wage to the lowest. And that's not all that's done. You are trying to deepen the full and stable work with the cloak of punishing part-time work. Paying at 12% of each hour of overtime, when full time is paid at the same time with 40% increase, gives employers the green light to proceed with further elasticisation of working relationships, since they are drastically inferior to the price of the labour force. Combining the use of this term with those already in existence for the reorganisation of working time creates the conditions for even this minimum wage for workers to approach it by handing over to the flexibility of their family life, their social life, their free time, their rest and, in other words, adapting their entire lives to the needs of a business, in order to achieve maximum profitability in terms of competition. In view of the fact that wealth and profit are therefore produced solely from the work of the workers, you are giving it all the possible and adaptable forms from which the maximum profit arises. On the opposite side, however, it disguises the biological limits and the whole life of the workers. Of course, apart from slapping wages and working conditions, you are making them through the bill and budget and other laws, as a whole in the armoring of business groups from every small and large risk, do not escape them and no euro. You give them land and water. You give them cheap bank money for investment, cover with public guarantees in the event of redundancy of their loans - that is to say, the backs of the people and their potential business failure - cheap energy, reduction of insurance contributions, reduction of income and dividends, bypassing environmental protection barriers, free land, free mineral wealth and public infrastructure. You remove everything and lead to impoverishment of everything, those who, under the existing working conditions, spend every day two and three days of their lives because of their intensity, all those who take science and technology ahead and escalate labour productivity, creating conditions, today, that everyone can work with production that meets all the modern folk needs in much less time and with much less effort. And who do you give everything to? You give everything to the shareholders of a handful of monopolistic groups, that is to say, the only work they do is to run out of how the minimum reserves of brain and muscle energy for workers will be ripped off until they are exhausted. You give them to those who turn the possibility of working for everyone with much less hours in mass unemployment, to those who are looking for the hatreds to win competition, to those who are looking for inexpensive ways, to move their factories where they have a cheap worker. You give them to those who need people's massacres to win as well as to rebuild them. And that is what you call growth and progress. You know very well that such growth will not be tolerated for a long time by the workers and the populace. They'll be organized. They'll react. That is why, apart from the ideologies of class cooperation, the cracking of anyone who raises the head, a bunch of intimidation laws, the feeding of the majority of the GFCM to degenerate the labour movement, you need more law and order with an electronic record, so that the employers get out of the pioneer fighters, with electronic vote to hit the strike. From this, the employer wants to get rid of what made her life difficult, prevented her - and prevent her - from imposing her barbaric conditions and entrusted you, the state, that is, her imperative duty to relieve her. Because without its state it has no luck. Workers - know it - won't stay with their hands crossed. Despite unfavourable correlations, they fight and are organized, they gather forces, they give small and large battles every day with fair demands and claims. Reconstructing the labour movement and social alliance are legal necessity and will occur under any circumstances, paving the way for new conquests. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u551	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for being consistent in your time. Mr. Dritsas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u552	Thank you, Madam President. Honestly, I am afraid, ladies and gentlemen, that this unbearable slightness of the New Democracy Ministers and Members of Parliament with this incredible naivety needs investment, that we will provide incentives, that investment will come and that the country will be saved, a country bankrupt, which has taken a step forward from bankruptcy, but the wounds are still wide open. The wounds are falling apart. And matters are very serious. Now the credibility of Mr Brutsi's data is a proverbial one. For years now we have had the experience in this Chamber. Mr Gerapitris, however, you cannot compare the bankrupt, levelled in every productive sector Greece and Portugal. Totally other problems were experienced by Portugal. The crisis in Portugal was completely different with Greece. Do we have for a 15-year-old definition of regulated debt, which is a solid tool, a foundation and a basis for development planning? We do. Whose is this work? It's SYRIZA's work. Do we have a thirty-seven billion pillow that gives prestige, credibility to the markets, which gives us the possibility of flexibility, which relieves us of panic? We do. Is that a development tool? Is that a foundation? It is. What work is it? It's SYRIZA's work. Do we have a continuous growth rate in a bankrupt economy that lost 25% of gross national product? We don't even have that at war. Did this happen successively and firmly? Is this a tool and a solid base and a foundation? It is. What work is it? It's SYRIZA's work. Do we have a fall in unemployment? What work is it? It's SYRIZA's work. Do we have indicators of social cohesion sufficiently satisfactory under these circumstances? We do. Don't go on. Are you going to rely on them? All right, you save capital, entrepreneurship as a growth size. Is work for you a development size? Is it a factor of productive reconstruction and development? Say it! Is it or isn't it? Is the environment a productive size for you, for your worldview, for your plan, for your programme, for your bills? Is it or isn't it? Is social cohesion and indicators of social inequality a productive size or is it not? These are our big differences! And that's not a word. They are translated into continuous planning and choices, which make development steps sustainable and truly create conditions for progress. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, and ladies and gentlemen of the House, Alexis Tsipras quite rightly said that what you are announcing in this bill very strongly reminds us of the parasitic state capitalism that Mr Georgiadis dreams of, the Minister who introduces the bill and supports it, in the 1990s and 2000s, where we also had investment and greatness and Olympics and high growth and prosperity rates. We've all had it. And then the ship sinked! We will respond to this or we will be so naive, so dangerously naive, in the face of a situation that and internationally threats of a new real cycle are being eradicated. And the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, says Greece will be the exception. Where are you going, Carametro? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm sorry. So naive! To be an exception, very serious things are needed, not photographic motives or even real motives in sectors that are irritated and without evaluation, which are the comparative advantages and where they are not and where they are not. And don't tell me that this bill is not characterised by this element. Where do you see priorityization, rationalisation, regional development? Where do you see them in this bill? It's on order. What Mr. Nicholopoulou says, as once said in the history of the Greek Parliament, was also issued by a law that invaded the note of a minister in the 1930s and entered the law 'and everything else Mr. Nicholopoulos wants'. This is not growth or, at least, it is not a serious response to the seriousness of the moments. From this point of view, be serious. I feel, but I am not satisfied with this, that there are cracks already yesterday and today, not only in your credibility but also in the advantage of having democratic legitimacy with the elections of 7 July. You have two days now suffered serious cracks in democratic legitimacy and as a government and as a party. I'd like an explanation. Photographic devices, thousands. In Article 180 for honorary naturalisation, some are excluded from the control of criminal records for honorary naturalisation. Mr. Theodorikos, is that yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u554	Explanations should be given, what this Article 180 is and who they are. Who are excluded from the control of a criminal record to give them the honorary naturalisation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u555	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Before giving the floor to the Minister, you will allow me to give Mrs Evriou the floor. You've got for five minutes, Mrs. Evthymus, strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u556	Thank you very much for this concession. Ladies and gentlemen, the "Investing in Greece" bill attempts to remove dozens of investment barriers to licensing, environmental, urban and labour issues and at the same time cure weaknesses that remained out of the deep past, which acted as an obstacle to attracting investment. It also inspires a sound and attractive institutional regime to attract investment, stressing one of the main objectives of the government, which is to achieve growth as a basic lever of exit from the crisis and accelerate the economy. In this context, I would stress that the Prime Minister yesterday announced the suspension for three years of VAT in all the building permits issued by 1-1-2006 and from now on. It is a zoontic measure for economic activity, because let us not forget that it relates to more than a hundred and fifty jobs in this area. In my position I shall refer to the provisions relating to labour, which I have been engaged in as a combatant in labour law. The previous government has attempted to bring about better regulations for workers, but these have unfortunately been done in a fragmentary way and are not linked to the labour market. So they didn't bring in the expected result. The notified difference introduced by this government, which introduces this bill, is that we are establishing provisions that are in a balanced relationship with workers, taking into account current economic circumstances, circumstances and needs. The target is double. Firstly, support for enterprises and the attraction of young people and, secondly, support for workers and the creation of new jobs of well-paid people. These two are fully dependent and interacting. The bill ensures that. And how does it ensure it? Firstly, by strengthening collective labour relations. The more favourable regulation, the tightening up, the expansion, is a fundamental principle of the free collective bargaining system. This bill respects them, but also respects the current economic conditions. Let me remind you that the re-energisation of these authorities in the summer of 2015 was postponed, olive “summary of negotiation” of the SYRIZA - ANEL government, for August 2018. In other words, their suspension lasted for three years more than planned, with the sole responsibility of the government at the time. However, during the three-year delay both the contents and the procedures did not come back as they did and have the effect of creating a number of distortions in the labour market. Apart from that, however, what you in our counterpopulation are looking at is that we are introducing a clause of divergence. This divergence clause is nothing new. It is something that also applies to European law, and it is something that both Greece and the organisations that are in favour of workers. Therefore, this divergence clause concerns companies that are experiencing a difficult economic situation. Let me tell you that the criteria are clearly established in the Banking Code, whether they are in bankruptcy or they are in the resolution stage, whether they are at the stage of ratification of the resolution agreement or are at the stage of the extra-judicial compromise. These criteria are therefore very specific. They have also now been defined in the years of the crisis and in a variety of judicial decisions. There is a specific case-law which defines how it will be applied. It is reasonable, therefore, that all this will be taken into account in the formulation of the ministerial decisions setting out the criteria. I would also like to say that the government with this bill also strengthens individual employment relationships, with full employment alone. And it does so either by combating undeclared work, which in the days of the SYRIZA government with the "Katrugalou" was blossoming, because the opposite incentives had been given, which helped black labour and tax evasion, but also by fighting the alleged job, strengthening full employment. The two-month time-limit for non-payment of accrued earnings is also positive. The previous government had stated that if they were not paid over a reasonable period of time, that would constitute a harmful change. However, this was not actually the case because the worker did not have the money to refer to the courts, because it could not be determined what time is reasonable. That is now institutionalised. In conclusion, I should like to say that the government has a considerable parliamentary work to do a few months after its election. And it is reasonable that at another stage where there will be other possibilities of the economy, there will also be another approach and employment issues. This bill will bring changes that allow us to be optimistic, because it attracts investment, creates new jobs, strengthens competitiveness and produces incomes for many. And, of course, I would say that, beyond national planning, development will come from both local communities and local peculiarities, which, in my own region, I believe, is a matter of concern, as has been raised by enterprises in the western quarters, it will be useful to use to improve investment. For all these reasons, I will be voting in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u557	Thank you too, my colleague. You will allow me to thank all the Members who have followed you very carefully and have done so quietly in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u558	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u559	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u560	Madam President, I should like to give an answer to the Member of the Officerial Response from Piraeus, Mr Dritsa. This particular article, Mr Colleague, to which you have referred, speaks of a special naturalisation of a foreign citizen. So the Greek state is appreciating the offer to our country, to Greece, to a foreign citizen, and you want us to ask who we, the Greek state, consider it so important, so important, that it has offered so great things to our country, and to say to him "bring us now a certificate of criminal records from your country to naturalize you as a Greek"? Don't be so suspicious. I would ask Mr Dritsas very much if he is aware of the purpose of the provision which is photographic, to tell the Minister for the Interior to find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u561	Thank you too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u562	Madam President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u563	Mr. Dragon, strictly for a minute. Please, it's too late because we don't have time anymore. The Minister for Development should already have gone up to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u564	Minister, I honestly tell you, I never conspire politics and personality in my life. Photography is the layout. You said it yourself, it's for some people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u565	For who?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u566	Who are they? Why has the need for this provision emerged if it does not refer to someone? So it's generally? Does it come up in the future? I don't understand. You'll answer. What can I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u567	Madam President, I request the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u568	You have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u569	I don't even need a minute. Mr. Drizza, I challenge you again. Tell me who the camera is. You guys think it's photographic. I don't. I asked you to tell the Minister for the Interior, who has to make this proposal on the basis of this article, who is this photographic provision? Please tell me to find out where I'm going to run.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u570	Madam President, I ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u571	Mr. Drizza, this can't be done. The Minister answered you. You said your opinion and the Minister answered again. We cannot have a debate at this level, you know that very well. The Minister has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u572	Ladies and gentlemen, following an exhaustive public debate launched at the end of August, it lasted for the public consultation in the media throughout September and then through the parliamentary procedure it followed the first reading, the hearing of bodies, the debate on the articles in committee, the second reading and a two-day debate in plenary, which has been discussed by many colleagues, a record number for the bill - I have great pleasure and honour to ask the House to vote in favour of the draft law proposed by the Ministry of Development and Investment and which aims to make the lives of our fellow citizens better. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Dritsas, who was the last speaker of SYRIZA, summed up the criticism of the Opposition with a little pavilatory phrase to me, "Where are you going, Karamitros", was the phrase of Mr. Dricas in terms of his bill and developmental perspective, as well as the strategy of the new government. I would like to say to him that SYRIZA as a whole and personally should be extremely careful when it comes to development issues on our side. And I'm just saying a story. We were in this House ten years ago, when the then government of the New Democracy proceeded to privatise the port of Piraeus and to enter "COSCO" at the port of Piraeus. At that time, the whole opposition to Mr Dritsa and Mr. Dritsa took precedence, engaging in this privatisation and accusing the government of New Democracy and then Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis, who just entered the Chamber, of what he did was wrong. It has only been eight years - because history has been avenged - to become Mr Dritsa, Minister for Maritime Affairs and to be this Minister, who privatised the rest of Piraeus by giving the PPA to 'COSCO', that is to say, the company you were calling about at the time. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So when, Mr Dritsa, life has taught you so painfully the defeat of your ideas and the victory of the ideas of the liberal party to be more careful! Because what happened is that you took power and finally ruled with the ideas of the New Democracy, and this is our great ideological victory and thank you for giving it to us personally. And in this bill, ladies and gentlemen, to sum up a little while by closing the debate, things have been heard and I want a little remembered. There was no serious criticism at all. It would have been very useful if we had received a serious review of the articles and if we could from the Opposition to get ideas, to correct articles that we might have made a mistake. But that's not what happened. The debate started in the committee on the articles, with Mr Pappas denounced an article by Mr Drasakis, who had not read. Then we heard from Mr Tsipras the same lessons that we heard seventeen times these two days about supposedly developing incentives to extract lignite, and expressly excluded lignite from the article. Even that had not been heard by the Chief of Staff Response, and he came and repeated it unconscious. We have heard from the Head of the Opposition, repeating the falsehood of SYRIZA that allegedly the exhibition of the Bank of Greece provides for a reduction in private sector wages and that it provides for an increase in GDP, while, as Mr.Gerapitris said, the exhibition of the Bank of Greece has shown itself to be the same backwards from what Mr. Tsipras said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u573	Hey, okay, okay! You're lying to the House right now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u574	Please don't interrupt me. Under the Rules of Procedure, the rapporteur is closing the debate. What am I supposed to do? In four years the Greek people will decide again. We have a democracy. And I heard the unimportant that he accepted, he says, our government and our prolongation of the first cracks of democratic legitimacy. Come on, Jesus Christ! We had elections three months ago. In 2019 you have lost to all the polls that we met. You lost parliamentarians, you lost the European elections, you lost the regionals, you lost the municipals, you lost the lawyers, the medical clubs. Whichever of the polls we've encountered you, we've won you. And you still talking about the Greek people? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Take the good news, dig it in order to calm down and make opposition to the bias. The Greek people that Mr. Tsipras rightly said sees and judges, seeing and judging chose between Alexis Tsipras and Kyriakos Mitsotakis for Prime Minister of Greece! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I understand that this is not what you like, but you will be forced to live with it in the next four years. As to why we have introduced this bill, I have said so in my protagonists, ladies and gentlemen, and I will repeat it now by closing it. This bill will make our fellow citizens' lives better and easier. It will make it better, because it compacts the time that our fellow citizens have lost when they made a business or an investment and wanted to get a licence and get over the stumbling block of Greek bureaucracy at different levels. Don't say what we've been talking about for two whole days here. However, it is certain that after the vote on this bill, our fellow citizens will be less troubled, our fellow citizens will have the opportunity to develop their property more, our fellow citizens will have the opportunity to create their dreams, make more foreign investors, make our lives better! That's what this bill does. And for you who choose to vote against, I understand the opposition and I understand them. I am not going to speak to colleagues who respect and love. I think you're wrong. Because any colleague who does not vote for this bill is like saying to his fellow citizen even to his constituent: 'I prefer you to stay at the mercy of bureaucracy, I prefer there to be no time-limits in archaeology, I prefer there to be no time-limits in the service he answers, I prefer you not to take your money from the development law quickly, but to stay and be dissatisfied with two and three years, I prefer you to stand in line and beg for a seal and all that I prefer, because I want to make an opposition.' That is what you must go to say today that you are voting against this bill. This is a bill that fits overall government policy. Because, in fact, yesterday the Prime Minister made a statement that just comes along with this bill. The Greek Prime Minister's announcement that there will be a suspension of the VAT payment for building permits from 2006 will create a strong incentive for our fellow citizens to seize this opportunity and make use of their properties. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And with the bill that we are voting on, we are giving them the tools so that they can do it easier and faster. So, in combining this policy of the New Democracy Government, the lives of our fellow citizens will be better. And I want, in particular, to thank not only the colleagues who have spoken and supported the bill, but also all the fellow ministers, because, as I said at the first moment, this bill is not just the supposed Minister of Development and Investment, it is an interministerial bill of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of the Environment, the Ministry of the Interior, the Minister of Education of all the co-legislators...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u575	It's work, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u576	The Minister of Labour, of course. You think I forgot my friend Yannis Brutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u577	You forgot about him, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u578	I know, you mind Yannis Vrutsis, because he's telling you the truths you don't want to hear. Because it brought you the figure of one million outstanding pensions that you hid from the Greek people. And so you were making the fake numbers of the surplus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u579	Lie to lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u580	But, anyway, we don't have to talk about this again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u581	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u582	That's all you know so we don't waste time and to close, they were judged in the poll. You've said it, you've been over it. And you, Mr. Janakopoulos, as a government representative, called it every day. Now you're counting my own TV shows. It's a good ending from where you were, now count my TV shows. Accepted. You deserve this ending. In the end, after you said what you said to the Greek people, the Greek people gave you their answer. And I'm where I am, and you're where you are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u583	For how I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u584	So, to close, with the brains you carry, you'll stay where you are forever.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u585	You personally for how long!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u586	Because with the minds you carry, you want to make the lives of your fellow citizens worse, while we want to make the lives of our fellow citizens better, and that is why we are voting for this bill with pride, with honour, with dignity for our ideas, for our fellow citizens! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 608a]] [[To enter page 610a]] [[To enter page 611a]] I would also like to ask for your positive vote on the bill of the Ministry of Development and Investment. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u587	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment is adjourned: 'I invest in Greece and other provisions'. We are now entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. A request has been submitted for a roll-call vote of members of the SYRIZA on the principle and on Articles 1, 3, 5, 7, 11, 15, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 157, 161, 178, 184 and 205, as well as on the Ministerial Amendment No 64, and the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u588	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Avramakis Eleftherios. Here you go. Mrs Agathopoulos Irene. Here. Mrs. Aggiris Theodora. Here. Mrs. Ahchioglu Happiness. Here. Mr. Vitsas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Gerovassili Olga. Here. Mrs. Gara Anastasia. Here. Mr. Giolas John. Here you go. Mr. Dr. Theodoros. Here you go. Mr. Zachariadis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Katsis Marios. Here you go. Mrs. Kafantari Joy. Here. Mr. Lappas Spiridon. Here you go. Mr. Barcas Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Xanthiopoulos Theophilus. Here you go. Ms. Xenogiannakopoulou Marilissa. Here. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. A request for a roll-call vote of Members of the Change Movement has also been submitted on Articles 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 1788,184 and 210 of which the text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u589	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. Genuine Lights. Here. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Ahmet Ilhan. Here you go. Mrs. Yanakopoulou Nadia. Here. Mr. Gocas Christos. Here you go. Mr. Kamine Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Castanides Charalambos. Here you go. Mr. Katrinis Michalis. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Present Mrs. Kefalidou Hara. Here. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Ms. Liikali Evangelia. Here. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Mulkiotis George. Here you go. Mr. Baran Bourhan. Here you go. Mr. Biagis Dimitrios. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. Finally, a request has been made for a roll-call vote of Members of the Communist Party of Greece in principle and on Articles 53, 54, 55, 56, 57 and 178 of which the text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u590	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Marinos George. Here you go. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Ms. Canelle Gallifria. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mrs. Konnakka Maria. Here. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Papanastassis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Stoltides Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Synthrates Emmanuel. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourning our meeting for ten (10') minutes, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u591	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that the three votes should be taken together in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u592	The House has agreed. Nominal electronic vote will take place at the outset and on Articles 1, 3, 5, 7, 11, 15, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 157, 161, 178, 184, 205 and 210 as well as on the Ministerial Amendment No 64, and on the bill No 14. I would like to point out that the vote includes the beginning, seventeen articles and one amendment. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all nineteen areas included in the vote. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, please contact the Bureau, so that the officials concerned can assist you. There are several employees who can help you. They'll run the benches to help you. We would remind the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the draft law to remain in the Chamber after the roll-call vote was completed to vote on the other articles and amendments. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u593	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes - fax colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, have been sent to the Bureau. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues, under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u594	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters by fellow Members George Karougalos, Giannis Varoufakis, Konstantinos Scandalidis, Andreas Katsaniotis, Antonis Samaras, Dionysios Hatzidakis and Apostle Pana, who know that they are absent from the vote and that if they were present they would vote "NAI". These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u595	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u596	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the outcome of the roll-call vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: 'I invest in Greece and other provisions'. The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: In the light of the foregoing, the Court A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of the principle, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 165 MPs. On the first point, the House voted 122 Members. 'Communities' voted 0 MPs. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: 'I invest in Greece and other provisions' was accepted in principle by a majority. Article 1 as amended by the Minister: A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 1, namely 'NAI', they voted 165 Members. Pursuant to Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure, 103 Members voted. 'Communities' voted 19 MPs. Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 3 as follows: A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 3, namely 'NAI', they voted 165 Members. Pursuant to Rule 3 of the Rules of Procedure, 103 Members voted. 'Communities' voted 19 MPs. Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 5 as follows: A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 5, i.e. 'NAI', 184 Members voted. Under Rule 5, i.e. 'OH', 103 Members voted. 'Communities' voted 0 MPs. Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 7 as follows: A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 7, i.e. 'NAI', 184 Members voted. Pursuant to Rule 7, in other words 'NO', 103 Members voted. 'Communities' voted 0 MPs. Article 7 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 11 as follows: A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 11, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 165 Members. Under Rule 11, i.e. 'OH', 103 Members voted. 'Communities' voted 19 MPs. Article 11 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 15 as follows: A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 15, i.e. 'NAI', 156 Members voted. Against Rule 15, i.e. 'OHS', they voted 131 MPs. 'Communities' voted 0 MPs. Article 15 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 53 shall read as follows: A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 53, i.e. 'NAI', 156 Members voted. Pursuant to Rule 53, that is to say, 'ACP' voted 131 MPs. 'Communities' voted 0 MPs. Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 54 reads as follows: A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 54, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 165 Members. Pursuant to Rule 54 of the Rules of Procedure, 122 Members voted against. 'Communities' voted 0 MPs. Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice (Queen's Bench Division) — A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 55, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 165 Members. Pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure, 122 Members voted against. 'Communities' voted 0 MPs. Article 55 was therefore accepted as a majority. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice (Queen's Bench Division) — A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 56, i.e. 'NAI', 156 Members voted. Pursuant to Rule 56, in other words, 122 Members voted. 'Communities' voted 9 MPs. Article 56 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 57 as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the Council of 14 A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 57, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 165 Members. Pursuant to Rule 57 of the Rules of Procedure, 122 Members voted against. 'Communities' voted 0 MPs. Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 157 reads as follows: A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 157, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 165 Members. Under Rule 157, 103 Members voted against. 'Communities' voted 19 MPs. Article 157 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 161 reads as follows: A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 161, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 165 Members. Against Rule 161, in other words, 122 Members voted. 'Communities' voted 0 MPs. Article 161 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 178 reads as follows: A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 178, i.e. 'NAI', 155 Members voted. Under Rule 178, 132 Members voted against. 'Communities' voted 0 MPs. Article 178 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 184 reads as follows: A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 184, i.e. 'NAI', 155 Members voted. Under Rule 184, 132 Members voted against. 'Communities' voted 0 MPs. Article 184 was therefore accepted as a majority Article 205 reads as follows: A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 205, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 165 MPs. Under Rule 205, 121 Members voted against. He voted for 1 Member of Parliament. Article 205 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 210, as amended by the Minister: A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of Rule 210, i.e. 'NAI', they voted 165 Members. Against Rule 210, i.e. 'OECD', they voted 122 Members. 'Communities' voted 0 MPs. Article 210 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. The Minister's Amendment No 64 and a special number 14 as amended by the Minister. A total of 287 colleagues voted. In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAI', 156 Members voted. The vote on the amendment, i.e. 'No', was taken by 113 Members. "Communities" voted 18 MPs. The Ministerial Amendment No 64, as amended by a majority, was therefore accepted by the Minister. The result of the roll-call vote will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u597	At the end of the roll-call vote, we proceed to vote on the remaining articles and amendments. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and special speakers of the bill. I would very much ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u598	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u599	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u600	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "I invest in Greece and other provisions" was accepted by a majority in principle, Articles, Amendments and as a whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u601	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u602	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-24-S1-commons.u603	With the consent of the House at 23.10 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 25 October 2019 at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
