ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval, its minutes of Wednesday 6 March 2019, with regard to the vote in the whole draft law, were ratified by the Bureau of the Council of Ministers.]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the page in. 5a]] [[To enter page 6]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 8 March 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 404/5-3-2019 of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Dimitrios Vettas, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subject of “Procurement difficulty with the diploma of Supervisor of the School of Kalymnos, of the crew working on shellfish vessels”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 400/4-32019 by the Deputy Minister of Attica, New Democracy, Athanasios Bura, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Reopening of the General School of Magulas as an exam centre'. 3. The Question by Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister for Immigration Policy on the subject: "Appointment of a sectoral secretary of the Ministry of Migration Policy". 4. The Question No 407/5-3-2019 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. George Lambroulis to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Let us stop the installation of wind parks in the mountainous peaks of Agraphos". 5. The 395/1-32019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Association of Centrals Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The new ministerial decision to introduce students into the music departments of the country is blocking the dreams of students". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis, Member of Parliament, on the subject of 'Readaptation fees for large hydroelectric power stations', under number 405/5-3-2019 of the Athens Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his answer. 3. The question under number 406/5-3-2019 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Problem in Western Thessaloniki on prolonged gases and unbearable disosomia". 4. Under number 399/4-3-2019, a topical question by the Independent Member of the European Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister for Migration Policy, concerning the 'Frontex' risk analysis report showing that migration pressure remains high at the external borders of the European Union. 5. Under No 388/26-2-2019, a topical question by MP I Piraeus, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The government is calling for a selective partition of municipalities with micro-participatory criteria, just before the municipal elections, causing confusion and inconvenience." 6. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Proclamation of a post as Professor of Shiro-Beligomia at the Democritus University of Thrace". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under No 279/15-1-2019, the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the transport equivalent". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Research, exploitation and management of the country's geothermal potential, establishment of the Greek Geological and Mining Research Authority, ownership separation of natural gas distribution networks and other provisions". Before entering the debate of this bill, we will proceed with a roll-call vote on Article 91 and the Ministerial Amendment with a general number of 2013 and a special 163 of the Ministry of Health's draft law: "Modernisation and the reform of the private clinical framework, the establishment of a National Public Health Agency, the establishment of a National Institute of Neoplasms and other provisions". A request has been made for the roll-call vote of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn on Article 91 of the draft law, the text of which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u2	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it: Mr. Aivatidis John. Here you go. Mrs. Vlach's Salvation. Here. Mr. George Germenis. Here you go. Mr. Antonio Gregos. Here you go. Mrs. Helen Zaroulia. Here. Mr. Panagiotis Iliopoulos. Here you go. Mr. Evangelos Karakostas. Here you go. Mr. Elias Cassidy. Here you go. Mr. Nikolaos Kouzilos. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Barbarousis. Here you go. Mr. Ilias Panagiotaros. Here you go. Mr. Christos Pappas. Here you go. Mr. Ioannis Shahinides. Here you go. Mr. Christos Hadjisavvas. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote by New Democracy Members on the Ministerial Amendment No 2013 and a special number 163, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u3	I will also read out the list of signatories for the roll-call vote to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Iasonas Lightolas. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Tsiaras. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Javaras. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Tasoulas. Here you go. Mr Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis. Here you go. Mrs. Lightning Arabaji. Here. Mr. George Karasmanis. Here you go. Mr. Constantine Koukodimos. Here you go. Mr. Georgios Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Davakis. Abstentions. Mr. Constantine Giulekas. Abstentions. Mr Anastasiades Savvas. Here you go. Mr. Christos Kelles. Here you go. Mr. Stavros Kalafatis. Abstentions. Mr. Dimitris Stamatis. Here you go. Mr. Charalambos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Cavada. Here you go. Mrs. Anna Karamanlis. Here. By removing the three missing, we've reached eighteen MPs, so I don't need to read the rest. There is therefore the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall vote on one?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u4	The House has agreed. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten minutes (10 minutes), in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on Article 91 of the draft law and on the Ministerial Amendment with a general number of 2013 and a special 163. We would remind you that after you have registered your vote, you have the opportunity to check it or even to revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be recorded and taken into account in the count which will be followed. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u7	We would remind the rapporteurs and special speakers of the draft law to remain after the roll-call vote to vote on the farewell article and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Health. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my colleagues, and my colleagues, have taken part in this debate. Georgios Koumoutsakos, Emmanuel Konsolas, Konstantinos Goulekas, Savvas Anastasiadis, Stavros Kalafatis, Theodores Karaoglou, Helen Raptis, Christos Stakos, Catherine Markos, Christos Boukos, Andreas Loverdos, Dimitrios Cremastinos and Konstantinos Scandalidis will not be present in today's roll-call vote and they know by letter that if they were present they would vote "Yes" on Article 91 and "OTH" on the ministerial amendment with a general number of 2013 and a special 163. Everyone declares that they are voting in accordance with the decision of their parties. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-eight students and students and four teachers attending from the 1st General School of Vyron. [[CHANGING PAGE]] The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 262 Members voted. Preliminary ruling — High Court of Justice (Queen's In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 229 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', 32 Members voted. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. Article 91 was therefore accepted by a majority. On the amendment, with a general number of 2019, and a special number of 163: In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', 152 Members voted. In other words, 110 Members voted against the amendment. No one voted. Therefore, the amendment with a general figure of 2019 and a special of 163 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u10	After the roll-call vote was completed, we proceed to vote on the nominee article and on the whole draft law. The Members will not vote. The rapporteurs and speakers only. The vote will again be taken electronically by the rapporteurs and special speakers of the bill. We would like to point out that the vote includes the office article as well as the entire bill. After you register your vote, you have the opportunity to check it or even to revise it until the end of the vote. For any question, you are addressing the Bureau. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened for the two parts mentioned above.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, seventeen students and students and an attendant teacher from the 4th Primary School of Hymittos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] There is a minor involvement in the electronic voting system. For typical reasons, I have to get my approval from there. The time is 11.05. We're going to take a 10-minute break, and at 11:15, we're going to enter Mr. Stathakis' bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u12	There was a technical problem. Our worthy technicians tell me it's been corrected. I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u13	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u14	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Health: ‘Modernisation and Reform of the Institutional Framework for Private Clinics, Establishment of a National Organisation for Public Health, Establishment of a National Institute for Neoplasms and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of them and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u16	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. We return to the discussion of the draft law on today's agenda of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Research, exploitation and management of the country's geothermal potential, the establishment of the Hellenic Geological and Mining Research Authority, the ownership separation of natural gas distribution networks and other provisions". This bill, following the decision taken by the Standing Committee on Production and Trade and on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is being discussed under the urgency procedure. The decision was taken by a majority under Rule 76(5) of the Constitution and Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that the Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 4 March 2019 to discuss the draft law in a single sitting on the principle, articles and amendments. You know what an emergency means. Parliamentary representatives have 12 minutes, special speakers and rapporteurs have 12 minutes and speakers have five minutes. The Minister has 12 minutes and the Deputy Minister has five minutes. There will, of course, be a tolerance, because maybe you should answer some questions and so on. Also, I want to make a briefing. There are, as far as I can see, a ministerial amendment and two parliamentary amendments. If we go as we should - today is Thursday - we will be done in time for everyone to go to your districts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, may I ask the Minister something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Maniotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u19	Minister, is there any other amendments coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u20	Mr Maniatis, you will not ask the Minister, but the Bureau tells you that the information I have from the President of this House, until now, is that there are no other ministerial amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u21	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u22	A late parliamentary can be tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u23	Therefore, if it comes - for example - an amendment by the government on red loans, the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Maniatis, you speak the Greek language very well, I speak the Greek language very well, and I answered your main question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u25	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u26	Don't go into any further clarifications.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u27	So the Minister will not accept it if another amendment comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u28	I don't interpret the Minister. I shall inform the House of what the President of Parliament has said to me. What else emerges, which I hope will not come about, will the Minister answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u30	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Anastasia Gara, a special rapporteur for SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the registration system has been opened, which will be closed once the step has been taken down by Mr Screkas. Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today being called upon to discuss an even innovative multi-brand plan to regulate the energy field in our country, solve the sufferings of the past and create an institutional framework that is estimated to contribute substantially to the development of the economy, but also to the protection of the environment. The bill includes arrangements for the exploration, exploitation and management of the country's geothermal potential, the establishment of the Greek Geological and Mining Research Authority, the ownership separation of natural gas distribution networks and other planning and energy provisions. This draft law has at its core the reconstitution of the institutional framework for the use of geothermality, a field in which the country has a huge potential, but which has remained unexploited for many years, mainly because of the fragmentary, deterrent or dysfunctional institutional framework. However, the use of geothermality can produce many benefits, particularly in local communities, from tourism and investment to energy and resources savings. We have pointed out several times that sustainable development, the modern approach to the use of technology, along with environmental protection, and the exploitation of our country's energy sources are prioritised in our political design and this is also reflected in the provisions of this draft law. The proposed plan therefore aims at distinguishing and characterising the geothermal fields, simplifying authorisation procedures for their use and reducing bureaucracy, always in a context of a sustainable and social development plan in the region concerned, which will be able to meet a number of its energy needs, thereby ensuring its energy autonomy. It also simplifies the categorisation of geothermal fields, while emphasising the development of fields with a temperature of up to 90 degrees Celsius. Geothermal fields from now on will be distinguished in local interest from 30 to 90 degrees and national interest above 90 degrees Celsius. In the national fields, the power to open a tendering procedure and to conclude a lease contract belongs to the Minister for the Environment and Energy. The management of the local geothermal fields is defined as the relevant decentralised administration, which will have a regulatory and coordinating role in carrying out the competitive process for the granting of a lease right to interested parties. On the other hand, in locally relevant areas the tender procedure is now induced at the request of the interested party and the decentralised administration proceeds to a direct public call for expressions of interest, thus omiting the time-consuming process of characterising the area of geothermal interest by the IGM. In addition, the minimum temperature for the determination of the geothermal field, geothermal capacity, by 5 degrees, is adjusted to 30, allowing for the use of several agricultural drillings for irrigation. In general, the focus is on the management of the geothermal fields, now defined as all activities that regulate the exploitation of the geothermal fluid by underground geothermal systems, with a view to its sustainable, rational and integrated exploitation and refers to the whole field. The most important thing, however, is that the rents for local communities, in which geothermality develops, are paid back. In other words, it is stated that 10% of the annual proportional rent will be available to the municipalities concerned. Moreover, if the right to use a geothermal field is to be leased to meet the thermal needs, schools, health centres and hospitals, there is no obligation to produce a guarantee letter or to pay a rent. At the same time, the establishment of the Problems Committees is being established to examine relevant challenges and the National Geothermal Geothermalisation Points Register, as well as the National Register of Geothermal Points Recording and Monitoring and their respective Internet portals, is being established. The Committee's positions show the broad acceptance of this intervention, with the provisions being achieved by modernising and improving the existing institutional framework, geothermality, especially in the fields of low enthusiasm, making it more accessible to interested parties, ensuring sustainability of the geothermal field, attracting new investors, institutionalising the integrated provision of geological, hydrogeological and mining services to the citizen, and in particular strengthening tourism, but also the agricultural sector and in particular the greenhouse gases, because a large proportion of the geothermal energy will be used in this direction. However, the use of geothermal fields by using and the tool of energy communities, we believe that it can effectively and manually contribute to economic development at local and national level, to the creation of new jobs, particularly in small local communities, to the reduction of the use of fossil fuels at national level, to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, to the sustainable development of local societies, to the production of out-of-season agricultural products, to the reduction of imports and to the increase of exports of agricultural products at national level, to the further increase of thermal tourism and other actions. A characteristic example of the exploitation of the geothermal fields, beyond the thermal sources, is the geothermal field in Aristino Traianoupolis, the Municipality of Alexandroupolis, which aims at multiple benefits for our local society. In particular, energy from this geothermal field will be used for heating all municipal buildings, for district heating and heating or other energy use by residents, farmers, various producer groups and local entrepreneurs with networks developed in three rural areas. The second part of the bill refers to the replacement of EGME by a new public geological authority, the Greek Geological and Mining Research Authority, EAGME. We are essentially transforming the body into a legal person governed by public law, with new addresses, much more structured, and above all with new competences that respond to modern needs and concern issues arising from climate change, with the control of groundwater quality, with the control of geothermal fields, mines and quarrying and other matters that were not before within the responsibility of the IGM. The new public authority shall assume the role of central control and laboratory arm of the State in all the environmental control and inspection services involved, both to the central services of the Ministry of Environment and Energy and to local environmental services of decentralised administrations and TAs. The new principle introduces the Management of Physical and Technological Risks, which will have close cooperation with local government in the field of prevention, registration and treatment of geological risks, such as floods and landslides, and which will become part of the organisation of the country's civil protection, which has not been the case until now. It is also envisaged that the National Geothermal Points Register be kept in cooperation with the Ministry and that the quality of the ground and ground water resources will be monitored and upgraded. Let us note that the EAGF will also take advantage of the public wealth, which belonged to the EGMG, and the creation of a special research account to fund research and related public utility projects. It shall also ensure the smooth continuation of all NSRF projects and programmes undertaken by the IGM, with a view to their completion. As far as workers are concerned, it is planned to maintain all jobs in the same legal relationship, to recognise their pre-service time for wage and graduation and to protect the personal disparity of their salaries. It is worth noting that, recently, on the initiative of this government, pension and wage issues faced by workers were solved, with a significant increase in their wages. Overall, we aim to create a modern and functional body that operates as a reliable arm in the field of geological research and technology and will contribute to the development, economy, environmental prevention and protection, as well as energy resources. The third part of the bill provides for the ownership of the existing natural gas distribution networks to be separated from the production, supply and trading activities of natural gas and electricity. Particularly important is that the State keeps the electricity and gas networks under public control, i.e. the main energy infrastructure. This is a key approach of this government, and in line with the model applied in most European countries, we are moving towards the privatization of trade activities, which are, in any case, done in the context of liberalisation of energy markets. The choice to maintain the networks under state control strengthens the faster development of networks and ensures public and national interest, as major projects and cross-border links, as we know, are subject to geopolitical issues. Therefore, with this selected model, PPA will be separated into two companies, the ‘Security Sub-Securities SA’ and the ‘COMPANY SA’. The share capital and voting rights of the Infrastructure Authority will be directly and indirectly owned by the Greek State, with the explicit indication that the proportion of the Greek State on the shares issued by the Infrastructure Authority cannot be reduced by less than 51% of the total share capital and voting rights of the Infrastructure Authority. With regard to the remaining shares and voting rights of the GOI's ownership infrastructures PPA, the transfer of those shares is envisaged following a competitive procedure. At the same time, the Infrastructure PPA is required within three months of the completion of the partial division to dismantle the subsidiaries and establish a new company that will be active in international projects, including its existing participation in the PSA S.A... Subsequently, there is the broader corporate transformation of the existing “DEPA SA” into “DEPA S.A.”, in which all the commercial activities of the IPPA will remain, absorbing all of its subsidiaries. Furthermore, the provisions of the draft law make it clear that the owner of the natural gas distribution networks must be independent in the interests of supply, marketing and production. Therefore, they cannot acquire control over the PPA of Infrastructure companies active in the production or supply of natural gas and electricity in Greece. As far as these companies are concerned, it is well known that the work regime in PPA today is not appropriate, as a very small number of workers are permanent and there is a multiple number of contract workers, which makes it difficult for such an important energy company to operate properly. It is for this reason that contractors who cover the fixed and long-term needs of companies can conclude contracts of indefinite duration during this transition, so that one of their main problems can be resolved and the contracting regime, which is completely foreign to the policy of this government, is now abolished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would ask for your tolerance for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u32	Because for five years you have been on the list for votes, you have been treated in particular. You've got two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. Part four includes land planning arrangements for the register and town planning arrangements for streamlines and arbitrary demolitions, as well as a series of arrangements concerning energy issues, such as arrangements for building permits for windlines, use of energy netting from OTAs (a) and (b) degrees, photovoltaic and energy communities, hydrocarbon observatorys, and specialises in the regulation to ban slate oil and gas. With regard to spatial planning, I will try to be brief, because there are enough provisions. This draft law extends to arbitrary owners who wish to voluntarily demolify their arbitrary buildings until the deadline for subjecting them to the provisions of Law 4495/2017. At the end of the law on arbitrary settlements, any arbitrary buildings or structures located by auditors will be immediately demolished, either at the time they are built or when they are completed. The same draft law solved difficulties that had arisen in implementing demolition operations and made the work of the competent authorities more effective. The demolition process is also considerably facilitated. A further regulation provides for the exemption of citizens from fees for the required livestock documents, the changes in their initial declarations and the correction of errors relating to geometrical elements of the documents in the course of their realisation. In particular, very important provisions such as: The possibility of using energy or virtual energy offset by OTAs (a) and (b) grades to meet the energy needs of public-private enterprises, such as schools and hospitals. A reference value for photovoltaic power stations is set, with an increase in the mid-point price of last year's same technology 5% for installed power of up to 500 kW and 10% for energy community stations with a installed capacity of up to 1 MW. This regulation also applies to agricultural photovoltaics. It is addressed that RES projects may be broken down, as any natural or legal person may hold, directly or indirectly, up to two projects, with the possibility of concluding an aid contract outside competitions, while energy communities may hold up to 18 MW respectively. Regional observatories on the environment and the safety of hydrocarbons research and exploitation shall be established with the participation of representatives of local authorities and scientific bodies. A more precise definition of hydrocarbons is introduced, which in any case excludes slate oil and gas. Hydrocarbon exploration and extraction contracts in various maritime and land areas of the country are thus prohibited as an attempt to avoid future application in areas in our country of the mineralisation method of hydraulic cracking - known as fracking - but also other non-conventional processes for the extraction of gas and oil.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u34	Mrs. Gara, you need to be shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u35	Give me one more minute, Mr President, and I'll close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u36	The rapporteurs also have a second word, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u37	I shall conclude, Mr President. This draft law is characterised not only as necessary but also as developmental or modern, as it creates a new framework for the licensing and exploitation of geothermal fields. It is a multi-faceted sector, but it can contribute to the development of alternative forms of energy, the development of small and large investments, the saving of money for energy consumption in local settlements, and the development of agriculture and tourism. At the same time, in the field of geological studies, the new public body set up, shields the prevention, research and exploitation of the country's geological energy resources. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, for the creation of new modern tools and for the release of past nuggets, to write another page in the new era, I call on you to vote in favour of the proposed draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u38	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Skrekas, has the floor. You will also have a relative tolerance, Mr Screka. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, before I enter my analysis of the bill submitted by the government, let me take this opportunity to take the opportunity after the public disclosure of the Prosecutor's finding of fire in Matti and say that this disaster, this inconceivable event, where hundreds of our fellow men have tragically lost their lives, demonstrates, unfortunately, the intense signs of decomposition and dismantling, to which the state mechanism has reached during Mr Tsipras' governance period. Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen, does not owe an apology only to the relatives and friends of our wronged fellow humans. It owes a great apologies to the Greek people for the lousy theatre that set up that tragic night, at that meeting at the headquarters of the firefighting headquarters, where they all supposedly did not know and all proved to be aware of the tragic consequences and unjust victims of that tragic fire. Now, as far as the bill we are discussing today is concerned, let me start with the issue of the ownership separation of the IPCC, which is very important, because it is about the energy sector. You know very well, ladies and gentlemen, and Minister, that the development of the country in many ways goes through the good operation of the energy sector, the security of supply of the country with energy and the supply of energy, and the productive base of the country, and also to the households of that country, at low prices. What is the government doing today with this bill? It proceeds to an ownership separation, separating distribution services and gas distribution networks from services and products for the sale and marketing of natural gas. To say it better, it separates regulated services from non-regulated services. What do we mean by'regulated services', ladies and gentlemen? We mean that all the power transmission networks - whether this is gas or electricity - are in a stable way compensated by a fixed rate of compensation on the capital invested. In other words, if the company, which comes and manufactures the gas pipelines, invests, for example, EUR 1 million, then through the energy regulator that is 100% controlled by the state, a stable rate of return is set on the amount that this company has invested to build the networks. What's the government doing? It creates two companies, two legal persons, the Infrastructure PPA and the Commerce PPA. All the distribution networks of Attica, the rest of Greece, and the shares currently held by the PPA in Thessaloniki and Thessaly, pass through the infrastructure PPA. It also passes the international works and the agreements or ‘memorandum of undergrounding’, i.e. the Memorandum of Cooperation concluded today by the IPCC with international organisations for the construction of international works, passes the commitment and obligations resulting from the agreement concluded by the IPCC with the ‘FSRU’ of Alexandroupolis, with the company promoting the construction of the Alexandroupolis terminal. It also passes all obligations of the PCC concerning small projects of natural gas or small-scale liquefied natural gas. On the other hand, the rest of the part concerning the introduction of natural gas into Greece comes, namely the contracts that the PPC has with GAZPROM and the introduction of natural gas through the pipeline that passes through Sidirokastro, with the Turkish "BOTAS" and the import of natural gas through the Gardens and the cooperation it has with the Algerian "SONATRACH" to import liquefied natural gas, which it stores in Revithus, in the storage of liquefied natural gas there. All of these contracts passes on to DEPA, a wholesale sale. It sells, in other words, natural to large customers whether they are electricity producers or large consumers of natural gas. It also passes all retail services, i.e. all DEPA marketing services to small consumers, households and others. What's he doing next? With regard to infrastructures - where after the separation, the state will have 65% share of the state and 35% share of the shares of the state "ELLENICA" - it holds 51% of the state and plans to sell 14% to a private investor. As far as DEPA Trade is concerned, respectively, the "ELPE" and 65% share share of the state - it sells 51% to a private investor and keeps the state 14% and 35%, of course - remains in the "ELPE". What are the problems? Let me say what the state would like from this division. The state would like the following five things: Firstly, it would like there to be separation, as resulting from Greece's regulatory obligations, between distribution and marketing networks. The second thing the Greek state would like to do is to have a good price for the shares it will sell, that is, to have a good income for the state and the public interest. Thirdly, he would like to succeed in attracting strong and serious investors, who will have the economic potential but also the knowshow and knowledge, to invest in the development of infrastructure, but also in the development of products and services that would help the development of the Greek economy. Fourthly, the state should achieve this in such a way that the country's energy supply is shielded. Fifthly, the state should ensure the supply of energy to Greek citizens and to the production base with low energy prices. So the question, ladies and gentlemen, is whether the government's way of segregating is going through this. I'll tell you it doesn't work. And why won't he succeed? For as far as the sale of a minority package of only 14% in PPA infrastructures and holding management under state control is concerned, no investor will come and give too much money, nor will he be interested in making big investments since the state has the state and since it will only be limited to getting a return on the invested capital, i.e. on the money it will give for 14%. So, basically, what is that? It is a 'gift' to a fund-raised organization that will come, buy 14%, sit and collect a percentage of the money it will give, which, as you know, will be charged to all Greek citizens and consumers, to be fairer. What do we say in that? Why don't you follow the plan that you've followed at the D.C.D.? Yes, the state, the Greek state, to keep a minority package of shares, to have a participation in this company, the infrastructure PPA, but to give management to the private investor and to give him a package of shares, which will enable him to develop the infrastructure. It also needs to develop non-regulated products, after strict monitoring, of course, by RAE, which will give them revenues which are not shared horizontally to consumers, but which will only have revenues from those who buy and use competitive services. And not only that, but it will also enable the knowledge it has and will carry to the Greek market, to improve the way in which the infrastructure is managed and to be for the benefit of the Greek economy. On the other hand, in the DEPA, what are you doing? You are, of course, selling 51% - a majority package - to a private person, you are also giving the management, but for the 14% withholding public rights you give special rights. And what special rights do you give him? To say where the owner buys gas - so I'll say it - and the DEPA administrator. And I ask this: why are you doing this? You say that you are doing this to ensure the country's energy supply and to achieve what is necessary, namely diversification of sources and routes. And I tell you - and I told the committee - that - you can achieve this with the absolute body that the State has at its disposal, the Energy Regulatory Authority, which will also ask the investor and manager of the IPPC Trade - as is called for by the private producers and PPC - business plan and proof that they can meet 90% of the demand for energy in peak periods. So RAE comes and says - and well does -: "Come here, you have said that you will cover 90% of the days and peak times, where we have a great demand for gas. Prove to me how you ensure that you have this gas that you say you have." And there should RAE come and say: "I do not accept..." - if there is a monopsychium, that is to say if it buys only one - "This business plan you say, dear DPRK Trade, that is safe for Greece. I want you to diversify your sources. I want you to have more than one buyer. I want you not to import gas from just one source, from one route. I also want to see other ways of ensuring the country's energy security and its energy supply." What do you do with what you do? You succeed in deceiving and leading to a lower price than the Greek state could achieve through the sale of the shares either in the Infrastructures or in the Commercial PPC. So you damage the Greek state, you damage the public interest. That's what we come and say. On the one hand, you are harming, leading to a lower price than what we could achieve for the sale of shares, and on the other hand, in the way you do, you are not helping to quickly and to develop investments in infrastructure, but also to develop new, innovative products. You have repeatedly said how successful the model of IPTO is. We should put things in turn, ladies and gentlemen. What is the successful model of IPTO? What has been delayed for four years, which in two years' time - from 2012 to 2014 - has been envisioned, planned and started to be implemented, built in government, Mr Samaras, with Minister of State, Mr. Maniotis, to tell you everything by their name? Within two years they envisioned it, designed it, awarded the contest, commissioned the construction and started construction. And you are delaying a year and a half to complete the construction, costing EUR 50 to 80 million to the Greek consumers through the YOIs. So what is the successful model? Because IPTO has made an ambitious ten-year plan? That's ambitious. What's it done? For four years the small interconnection of Crete cannot be launched. Do you know that the interconnection of Peloponnese - Central Greece has been delayed three years? Every year we renew integration for one year of interconnection. So, what is the successful recipe you've achieved? You haven't done anything. There came an investor from China, purchased 25%, sits, builds, as it manufactures, IPTO and collects supplies from construction. It receives, in other words, income from the return on investment, without doing anything. You have proceeded with some actions, which are in a 'grey area' as far as the small interconnection is concerned. And I know and you know very well that he has begun to have problems with the money coming from financial funds and financial institutions. There are problems there. The deal's stuck there. We hope, of course, to unwind, because in 2019 Crete stays free of power. In 2019, Crete has an obligation to close 400 MV installed by diesel engines - so to speak - from plants producing oil and diesel electricity. What are you going to do when the small and large interconnections are delayed? Of course, we are at risk for the large interconnection not only of taking money from extra funds and above the ESDP. We will lose this money on projects of common interest, so-called PCI, from Connecting Europe Facility, the European Interconnectivity Fund. From there we can get up to 300,000-400,000 euros for the national side, for Athens - Crete. And you're going to dismiss that money. And not only that, but they're preparing, maybe, an infringement. They also prepare a "penalty" procedure in Greece because, in the end, you will not apply the PCI and have not complied with the TEN-E regulations. That's what it sounds like. We hope they don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Screka, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u41	I shall conclude, Mr President. We therefore do not vote for what you have done with regard to the PPA. Three things to note: Geothermality is in the right direction. We're supporting it. The Municipality of Alexandroupolis has taken serious steps to make use of the geothermal fields and we support it. But we must also take account of local peculiarities. Don't forget that. There are no horizontal measures for everyone and everything. We should always take account of local peculiarities. But we will vote for that. As far as Article 69 is concerned, you're going to hire seventy-nine people...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Screka, in secondary. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u43	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u44	Yeah, but just a minute. I've given you another five.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u45	Do I have a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u46	You have a dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u47	Good. I'll need a minute then. On RAE: Here the bill is being drafted. You hire people, permanently bypassing the ASP and by way of derogation from the other provisions. At RAE seventy-nine people, twenty-five people! At "ARIADNI", the company that has to build the large interconnection, which is not only constructed, but also has a problem - we will also have a "penalt" as you do, will pay fines - you hire thirty people, as if it had a staff deficit!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u48	Last warning!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u49	Last comment, the agricultural photovoltaics. You said yesterday that you would match them - to say so - you will give what you give to the energy communities. This is about 80 euros MWh and 7.5 to 8 minutes the kWh. But we are telling you that because it will not be viable, we will resolve the problem of high productivity land, they will be able to build there, so that they do not have extra interconnection costs and, secondly, they can be incorporated into development law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u50	Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u51	The rest in the debate on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u52	They're aggregating the minutes. Please close the registration list. You should be aware, ladies and gentlemen, that the rapporteurs and speakers have six minutes of denial. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and six educational attendants from the High School of Doxatos and Dramas and the High School of Handra Lassithi. The House welcomes you! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Special Buyer of the Democratic Association Mr. Georgios Arvanitides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I am usually consistent, but very little time will be needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u54	There will be a relative tolerance to keep the rest of them equal distances. I'm just reminding you it's Thursday and it's gonna be about 17:00 to be over. And we can be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, as I have pointed out in the committees, this important multi-legislative project - as it eventually turned out to be - should not have been brought by the Minister in urgent procedure. There should be the possibility of studying it and formulating our views in detail, especially because the provisions on PPC will determine the gas sector in Greece for at least the next decade. Bring a number of provisions on geothermality, IGME, Register, arbitrary, photovoltaics and winds, with bonuses for PPC amendment. What should we start about all this and how many times do we say that your exclusive choices and delays are the ones that every time things lead to nothing but five? And let normality wait! But waiting for regularity, you seem to repeat the same mistakes, without intent to correct anything at all, without intent to listen to anyone. Not even a party, Minister, you don't change the bill. As far as I am concerned and the Change Movement I represent, we tried to see with constructive criticism, Minister, all the articles of this bill. However, your central political choices for the two main issues of the bill, the PPC and the IGM, force us to vote against both at the outset and all the articles relating to the specific parts of the bill. We warned a year ago that the method you chose to sell the lignite plants of PPC is problematic and will not walk. You didn't hear us. Now, one year after the dead end came, you're still looking for a buyer and going from an extension. And I ask: will you bring in any more changes to the contest? With these, the future of PPC and the electricity supply of Crete is uncertain. After you are now seeing a new deadlock coming, due to your delays, and the energy adequacy of the island from January 2020, after four years of wrong choices, you are desperately rushing to take situations with the derogations of PPC's facilities in Crete. When we warned and built up this inertia, we were bad, we were Cassandras. Except Cassandra didn't make bad predictions, she made good predictions. We are warning the same thing about the DEPA. We will meet, Minister, before unpleasant surprises with your options. Proceed to a break and to an unnecessary ownership separation of the DEPA, to a DEPA of Infrastructure and DEPA of Trade, which leads with mathematical accuracy to two problematic companies: a problematic and disloyal state infrastructures that will keep 51% the state, selling a minority package to private individuals, and a derelict, unfortunately, DEPA Trade, which will find private investors ready to pay a worthwhile price for its purchase. Who will want to buy expensively a weakened DEPA of Commerce charged with debts and without any clear and definitive arrangements for workers, permanent and contractors, who if they are staying as they stand, since neither their working future is guaranteed, nor is the private company becoming attractive, and indeed without the definitive sale of ELPEs which already hold 35% in PPA? Furthermore, the ELPEs, Mr Minister, are now in the process of selling, with their own problems, which need to be clarified, problems such as the recourse of ELPE workers to the European Parliament Committee on Petitions against the privatisation process of the ICT. I fear that we will be in the same spectators' work, as did the failure of PPC's disinvestment. There will also be complications in the PPC and in the background possible proclamation of a barren competition in ELPEs. Really, I ask you directly, Minister, do the ELPEs consider them to be a key strategic infrastructure for the country and the economy, yes or no? To understand, then, this case-by-case doctrine of state ownership in networks and infrastructures and in the DESFA, which is the Administrator of the National Gas System, which you say you could not do otherwise and you gave it by 66% to a private person. ELPEs accounted for 51%. Here in PPA you raise the banner of state capitalism with the false argument of public ownership of networks and infrastructure. And I say a false copy, because the gas infrastructure development and management model, which is implemented by the Greek State and the PPA with a success of twenty years now in the country, has attracted private investments of over 400 million and has as the basic principle the fact that the infrastructure ownership, manufactured, belongs to the Greek State. The Greek State simply grants the use and management of infrastructure to the companies that make them and operate them for a number of years. We do not consent to this improperness. We say 'no' in this division. It just doesn't have to be done. For reasons of public interest and for the benefit of the citizens, PPA must remain uniform, with the power and power that both the networks and the marketing and its participation in international projects such as IGB, IGI and East Med. These projects, as you know, become the country's energy diplomacy. This existing system has worked efficiently and effectively so far. Today you want to drive the DEPA of Commerce into an inappropriate bad privatisation. You also want to impose a unique mix of state-of-the-art and neoliberal laundry in the gas sector. The results of these political choices, they have nothing to do with this progressive profile you've been trying to build in SYRIZA lately. New Democracy, on the other hand, disagrees with the details. That is why we say that New Democracy and SYRIZA are the same aspects of the conservative currency. We say - and I would like to underline our position as I have developed it in committee - that the provisions you bring about for the PPA are an inappropriate, inefficient, anti-developmental and dangerous statement of the gas infrastructures, and we consider that the model you are choosing for the workers is not sustainable and without guaranteeing the workers. We are tabling our own proposal for a single and strong PDP, with the public holding a significant percentage - even a majority vote if necessary - and the private investor entering the management. The model you want to implement is not based on technical economic studies, nor is it imposed by existing European legislation on the ownership of the activities in order to privatise the PPA. Furthermore, it does not improve the conditions of competition on the gas market, since they are fully assured by the legal and accounting separation of IPCC, which has been in place since January 2017, nor will there be - and this is the very important - a reduction in the price of gas for consumers. Why, then, are you doing so, Minister? I would like to take five responses to issues which I shall put to you, as you have put to committee today. First of all, you referred to the competition regime that the PSC and PSC have to deal with. The PPC Trade operates in an environment of competitiveness not since 2010, which was rather wrongly formulated in your position, but since 2017. The question is: Is the competitive PPA Trade of the new era that is that of the two hundred and fifty workers, with State participation and intervention in gas supply contracts? Secondly, you said that after very hard negotiations you have made, you have managed and you want to keep all the public networks under public control. The question is: What are the tough negotiations, Minister? The 155 million granted by the Greek State to SHELL, which in itself wants to deinvest in Greece? As you said, you did this for a number of reasons. Firstly, so that the public can develop the networks more quickly and they can be made clean by state-owned companies. How's that gonna happen? I asked you the question in committee too. By applying the Public Procurement Act of Law 4412/2016? And it goes on to say: 'Second, because it falls within geopolitical issues, major projects and links'. Question: Will big geopolitical issues arise from an international, empty shirt without funds? How do you plan to implement the three major international projects that the DEPA has created for so many years with the support of the PASOK governments? You are also saying - thirdly - that the rules of separation are universal rules. Question: What European legislation does the compulsory separation of networks and commercial activities provide for? Minister, let's be honest. In PPA Infrastructure you dream of a public company, a vehicle of party arrangements and transactions, with regional and municipal authorities and a project of your own children, unfortunately. Third theme: You also mentioned, Minister, that you will sell 14% of infrastructures, because the public has 65% and the law says 51%. Question: With public management? Where did you see that? Who will invest his money in a public company in order to co-administer the well-known diseases of state-owned enterprises, which will soon lead it to become another problematic business? Fourth theme: let's go to the question of contract workers, where you promised to settle this with vague promises. Why don't you include them in the bill with arrangements? It is complicated and instead, you throw the ball at the administrations of PPC subsidiaries, who are already expressing objections and seeking legal coverage. What's the truth? Do you want them hostages until the elections, so you can finally leave them to the next? Put now, after you have that intention, relevant provisions in the bill. Fifth theme: you told us, Minister, that with the issue of DEPA the cycle of deprivation in the energy sector is actually being closed. Settlements or statisms? Minister, the truth is one: your government's cycle is closed with two major state-runnings, that of the infrastructure agency and the IGM. You did the favour of "SHELL" with the above and then, in order not to be exposed to the price, you made the company state. Because you know that if you dare and resold it for sale, you'll be exposed. In any case, and as soon as the process of cracking and any privatisations is progressed, the conditions of complete and absolute transparency should be ensured. I now come to the provisions on the IGM, where our own political criticism, like the PPA, applies, is an inappropriate, inefficient, anti-developmental and dangerous statementism, which freezes the activity of this important institution until at least the next elections, putting the new body, the EAGM, and the workers in the pre-election hostage. You are provoking the bureaucratic structure and burdening the state budget with about 600,000 euros, with a number of appointed managers and consultants. It is not described anywhere which problems solve the proposed new status of the EAGF as a legal entity governed by public law. There is no reference to any advantage from this change of institutional framework. In the question "What do we want?", the answer, ladies and gentlemen, is this: we want a flexible, independent operational FEME, which fits the character and role that such an institution must have in the geological research and the needs of the country. It is certain that this bill does not only go in this direction, improving the situation, as you claim it does, but will lead things quite a little backwards. I am presenting for the Minutes the most thorough view put forward as a comment on the public consultation of the bill by a co-rapporteur, Nikos Arvanitidis, one, as far as I know, of an excellent scientist, with great experience in the HEME, which I think would be worth all of our time studying it. [[At this point the Member, Georgios Arvanitidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In relation to geothermality, we recognise that a institutional framework is finally in place and hopefully it will run into practice. That is why we are voting in favour of this particular article. But let us say that geothermality is running and can make a maximum contribution to the energy sector in the country. How, though, will the most important geothermal fields in the country, located in the Dodecanese, channel their power across the country, when, on the basis of your schedules in the ESRB, the interconnection of the Dodecanese will go for 2029 and put it on? We are talking about prioritising interconnections. The Dodecanese must be connected by 2025. Take a step in front of the provisions of geothermality and two and a half back with the provisions of the DEPA, the HEME and the directions of the ESPE. The country is wasting valuable time. None of us deserve this miserable situation, not in the country, nor in the citizens, nor in the group of the PDP and of the PGM with their long-term offer. What the country needs, the energy sector in Greece, is investment in networks and Renewable Energy Sources and not state-run and dazzling bureaucratic processes, which turn us back. Networks, therefore, and Renewable Energy Sources will be my permanent inclination. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. That is where we must aim at every effort and every measure of our energy policy. Private capital should also be directed in these areas. With the log, however, not only does this happen, but I am very afraid that we will be faced with new deadlocks and new difficulties. These difficulties may cost more, as a result of your choices again. Let's all understand it. The issues that you are bringing today to legislate are primarily political and not technocratic. They have serious social and economic implications. We say "no" to this bureaucratic labyrinth that you set up in natural gas and IGME, with the "Minotaurus" of the market being caraded for silver at good prices and the New Democracy squeeze on these developments. So there's no growth, ladies and gentlemen. These are not the solutions and proposals that the energy sector in our country needs. That is why we are voting against your last bill, Mr Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much. The reason is the Special Buyer of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ioannis Shahinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Before I refer to the draft law, you will allow me, Mr President, to make a reference to the finding of the wronged victims of the murderous fire. Surely there are responsibilities for people who had been called on this day to manage a crisis. The question is, however, whether it is their fault alone. The responsibilities are time-consuming. Many today have condemned - and rightly condemned - the negligence of the current government not only in Matti, but also in Mandra. The question is what happened with their own governments. Don't forget in 1995, in 1996, in 2002. Almost every year we have phenomena of this type, so no one has the right - of all the previous ones - to speak of responsibilities exclusively for now. There are certainly very serious responsibilities, which should be shared and accounted for, but some in the mirror should also look at what they did in similar cases. However, here, on the basis of a survey by the Institute of Small Enterprises of the General Confederation of Craft Trades of Greece, 44% has declared a reduction in income in 2018 compared to 2017, 61% said it needs to make cuts to meet basic needs, 13% that income is not even sufficient for basic needs, one in two households, 50%, that it has received social dividends last year and one in three households said that it received social solidarity income. The list is not over. And here, you will allow me to comment on how unrealistic and unscrupulous, I would say, the current government, when the disaster had occurred in Matty, wanted to buy out the silence of their relatives and relatives, offering a place in the public, in exchange for no other demands. Let me go to the draft law. With regard to Articles 1 to 24, which relate to the research, exploitation and management of the country's geothermal potential, I would like to say that it could benefit the local and national economy, especially when geothermal has the third place between the Renewable Energy Sources, following hydroelectric and biomass. However, as this part of the data on government writing samples is structured, it is only liberalisation in this area too. In addition, the effectiveness of the provisions depends also on the time of adoption of the ministerial decisions provided for, but also on how the State mechanism responds to the immediate and necessary procedures. In Articles 25 to 52, concerning the establishment of the Hellenic Authority for Geological and Mining Research, the hearing of the bodies resulted - and, unfortunately, for you to support what we said - that there should be a reorganisation of the EGM and not a conversion of it from a research institute to a public authority. We are associated with the workers and their opinion that this section of the bill is anti-developmental, unscientific, anti-democratic and anti-democratic. We must recognize, however, that even the explanatory statement is wrong for the IGM, as far as its contribution to Greek society is concerned. We have been talking for sixty years in the country's applied geological and mining research. It should therefore be maintained, supported and strengthened. Given that there are judicial decisions in favour of workers, workers should be given the right to do so. In any case, given that you have already taken care to recruit, bypassing all other procedures, under the pretext of strengthening the various authorities and bodies, you should take care, if you were respecting everything offered by the IGM during these decades, to safeguard it and strengthen it, to support it and to renew it with new staff, since one of the representatives said that more than 60 % of the staff are over sixty years old and the average age of staff is fifty-six years old. From there on, another important note is that there should be a National Register for Geographical Geographical Resources and Aquariums, so that geological information can be collected, which is dispersed to the scholars and society. Consider this possibility even for free. Articles 53-55, which concern the ownership of natural gas distribution networks: Since we have been used by both the SYRIZA Government and the previous one to have legislation incorporating European legislation and other regulations, we have to recognise that ownership separation is not governed by European legislation or by a framework of competition or by other regulations. The DPRK’s ongoing division is its third division in order in the last 12 years. Developments, as described in the provisions of the present, have raised concerns and anxiety among workers - and I would say quite rightly - about the viability of the two companies, as I have pointed out in committee meetings. There is no provision for guaranteeing the working rights of staff and, as we have seen, there is no way in which the commitments and promises of the political leadership towards the staff go. Once again, the Minister's replies and his comment has not convinced us. Article 58 is an amendment to the provisions of Law 4512/2018. The main thing is that the institution is self-financed and revenue comes from the permanent and proportionate ending of citizens. The citizens therefore fully pay for the work of the Land register - and not just - in contrast to how this project started, against any citizen's benefits, and it proves the collective practical nature of the project. Article 61, which is an amendment to the provisions of Law 4030/2011, refers to an amendment made to the Register of Building Auditors established by previous laws and for the most part amended again, by by bypassing, in substance, what has been built up so far. We can only agree with the point of view of the representative of the EUTF, that the article should be withdrawn because it does not seek to improve the public interest, since graduate engineers can be written in a register of technical names, which is simply a list of individual companies up to anonymous companies and which are virtually no control at all, and there is a confusion among graduate engineers about where they should be written and how they should operate on the basis of the laws that you adopt. It is assumed that public security should be guaranteed and that the State, even through the disciplinary control of engineers, should be guaranteed for the way in which they practice their professions. Since no legislative improvement has taken place, this article should be withdrawn. In Article 72, which is an amendment to the provisions of Law 4414/2016, there is a basic omission, as, as we have heard, the category of professional farmers and the five thousand projects, which were not constructed due to distortions, are not included in the national plan for the production of electricity from Renewable Energy Sources. It is important to understand both the risks these people have taken and the difficulties they have encountered and, of course, the fact that with the strengthening of this sector there will be an improvement in the local economy, a renewal of the countryside and an improvement in primary production. Articles 75 and 76 relate to fifty-five additional recruitments. We recall that there are seventy-nine non-ACP recruitments expected in RAE again to companies controlled by the State to meet emergencies. It is foreseen that the successor of the operating electricity market LAG, the company HAGF - the Renewable Energy and Guarantee Manager - may, by way of derogation from any general and special provision, conclude twenty-five lease contracts for a fixed term of two years. Recruitment will be carried out by decision of the board of directors of the company and deemed necessary to cover emergencies resulting from the transfer of employees from the IPPC to the Hellenic Energy Exchange and the transfer of responsibilities to the company. There is also provision for up to thirty employees with private-law labour contracts to be recruited to the subsidiary IPTO ‘ARIADNI’. The company is expected to take over one of the largest projects in the coming years, the electrical interconnection of Attica - Crete with a submarine cable, with the project budget estimated at more than one billion euros. Workers who are to be hired to "ARIADNI", may remain in the company for several years, since a maximum duration of the contracts is set at one year, after completion of the Crete-Attica electrical interconnection project. The project, however, has not started yet, while it cannot be done in 2020, as there are judicial adventures leading to new delays. In the event that no legal claims by the parties involved and, in this case, by the EuroAsia Interconnector consortium, which is the official body implementing the PCI Crete - Cyprus - Attica, the stated intention of the Ministry of Energy to proceed with the project as a national will be charged to Greek consumers at an additional cost of EUR 456 million. All this, of course, is due to the blackmail of the Commission and for the sake of a private company that - badly lies - scandalously supported the EuroAsia Interconnector, the Commission, the New Democracy and the PASOK in order to be the project promoter. In conclusion, I shall refer to an issue of topicality. Allow me, Mr President. Our anointed people have a saying for every occasion. There's one that fits glove in what I'm about to mention. Although I am not allowed to say it exactly as the Greek people use it, I will try to say it as elegantly as I can. "He wants... to hide and joy doesn't leave her." Where does it fit? But of course in the presentation of the new book by Vice President of the New Democracy Party, who, explaining why he invited Nikos Dendas to the event, said that he did so because he also showed a corresponding determination on the matter of Golden Dawn. Because that was mainly the Minister who lifted the burden of clearing this horse, to finally do what we have seen: lead the Golden Dawn to trial. Let Mr. Dendias tell us if he agrees with that. Here, however, the New Democracy comes to vindicate another well-known popular expression that says 'they testify without wood'. This time, Hatzidakis clearly confesss that New Democracy officials set up the largest political project in the modern history of the country against the third political power in Greece, the Golden Dawn. She forgot, however, that this construction has turned boomerang back to her instigators, which, apparently, also turns out to be evidence of the evolution of the trial. We have forgotten that this government has collapsed and that Samaras is now in a party reserve, I would say, and practically deactivated. Conclusion: After the vote a few days ago on the presumption of innocence to be careful, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, how to express yourself on the movement of Greek nationalists. We will demolish you in legality or, if you wish, I will use a sentence of your own operative, we will take you to "blood".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u58	Mr Dendias will answer when he speaks as a parliamentary representative, if he wishes, because at the time you mentioned his name he was in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u59	He has responded in practice, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u60	I didn't give you the floor, Mr. Heliopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u61	It's okay. No one forgets.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u62	Quiet! Mr. Georgiadis will replace me in the Chair. I say it beforehand. Then his name will not be given. When he comes down from the Chair, if he wishes, he'll take the floor. Because I, too, have no right to speak from the Chair, but neither can I. because, firstly, I do not want to interrupt Mrs Manolakou and, secondly, we have a Conference of Presidents and I have to go there, I will say my opinion on the amendment to the Koundouriotica Refreshment. Of course, I'm not against refreshing the Kundurian. But I am firmly opposed to what has been done: Irresponsiblely received the property of the Municipality of Athens and given to the Region and the irregularity continues now. There are contracts that Abelokipou, part of which was Koundouriotika, belongs to the Municipality of Athens. I think it's also registered in the register. Now to the question where the Mayor of Athens is, to intervene, the answer, as always, is 'abs'. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u63	I'm going to refer to the Matty conclusion. Of course, the political responsibilities of the current government, but also of all the previous governments, are great, because there are huge problems and shortcomings in the fields of firefighting, civil protection and spatial planning, based on the commercialisation of the land. But what we want to stress on our part is that there is a fair indignation among the local residents. It is a great fight they are fighting, having to face a ravage of personal difficulties, and that is why they must not be forgotten. On the contrary, they must be helped. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] And now I come to this bill. Is this a bill on modern social needs that replaces all stolen workers and pensioners in the last decade, since the memorials are over, as the government says, or does it reduce taxation and accuracy? No, of course not. New tax exemptions were granted by the government yesterday, with an amendment, to the business groups and before the debate on the bill begins, a new amendment, which you voted on, gives the pharmaceutical industry a lot of money and, of course, accurates the medicine to popular consumption. Otherwise, you are making the honors of the scandal at "NOVARTIS". You're making fun of yourself on many levels. With this bill, however, you also give fillets of the Public Gas Company and of the geothermal fields, since it releases another valuable energy resource. All wealth north on the jaws of business groups for their profitability. At the same time, what prevents privatization is dispersed, as you do with the Institute for Geological Mining Research. That's the memorial period. It has a bar of privatizations for which, of course, it agrees with New Democracy and PASOK. They also had them in their own memorials, regardless of whether they vote against opposing populism. Of course, there are both the seizures and the auctions that will be accelerated by the Red Loan Act. However, what this bill contains is the prerequisites for the second assessment and concerns the amendment. This is why the legal framework for exploration and exploitation of the geothermal fields in Greece is redefined. Your changes unfold and accelerate the release, commercialisation of the geothermal fields. In fact, you are clearly referring to the objective of promoting, liberalising geothermality. The method and methodology for renting the geothermal fields are described precisely. It is the same methodology as hydrocarbons deposits, that is to say, in geothermality we have the method of the parallel search and exploitation of a geothermal field and the state will lease geothermal fields that they will not know nor even want to know their potential. The country has several high-efficiency geothermal fields. There are already several references to a series of exploratory contacts between business groups and representatives of local authorities in northern Greece, as well as to Aegean islands to speed up investment planning. It is planned that 10% of the annual rents of companies making such investments would be paid to municipalities as a reward, obviously so that there are no reactions. All workers, especially in energy, but also in the past, know very well that these promises have been disproved. Energy is extremely expensive, jobs are few and poorly paid. Explosion in intensity. The effects on the environment and health are great. SYRIZA Government is moving in the same line as all previous urban governments: it grants a valuable energy resource to large capital, with the sole aim of profitability. Moreover, the competitive process for choosing who will use the geothermal field means that the priority use of geothermality will depend on rent rather than on the total usefulness of the source for the whole society. Perhaps that's why you're peddling the Municipality of Ikaria from the license it should have taken for years for the hot springs it has and asking to be guaranteed through the amendment of Article 18. We are making his request and we are asking for it to be adopted. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] Of course, there are also resistances at the dance of the anti-required anti-corruption measures. You're trying to level them and get them out of the middle hurdles you find in front of you. That's what you do with the IGM and its conversion to the EGMM. It's not new. They did so, and the New Democracy - PASOK coup d'état that the IGM turned into EBRD. You are, however, turning into a public audit service of an advisory nature and not decisive, as it was. This is how you implement the Memorandum Pressure, Cheque and Obligation for a priced, small and flexible EGME, for which the Minister has committed himself in the Mining Enterprises Association, in order to complement the operations that are active in the exploitation of mineral wealth. Thus, you will simply manage funds, data and workers, with flexible forms of work and conditions that are far from perfect. That is why organic positions are dramatically reduced by a thousand - which should be - in two hundred twenty. Laboratory and construction research is effectively abandoned to third parties by shrinking the construction staff through the withdrawal process so that the administrative and technical staff are not self-sufficient in their operation. But the absorption of EUR 20 million from the ESRB will take place by delegations of work to third parties and assignments of work to service offices. That, of course, is what you wanted. There is also provision for the transfer of movable and immovable property to the Ministry of Finance through the liquidation process which creates many questions in which, Minister, you did not answer. Of particular interest, however, is the liquidation of the property of the remarkable heavy construction equipment and its modern laboratory equipment. Labs are modern, certified. You have them with a minimum staff. These people don't have to deliver with experience of decades, and now you strangle them. That is what you call'modernisation' provocatively. Shame on you! You are also abolishing workers' rights to date through collective agreements and staff regulations and at the same time stealing the retroactive effects of workers who are more than EUR 3.5 million. We therefore welcome the mobilisations of the workers and of the FYROM and of the FYROM, because the changes that you are making serve to privatise them and liberate them into natural gas by separating them into FYROM Infrastructures and FYROM Trading, of course, by privatising the FYROM which brings great profits, while the state will maintain control of the FYROM Infrastructures, i.e. distribution networks, most of them. Thus, it promotes liberalisation policy and gas, enabling other companies to use the gas network for distribution of their own gas. The solution adopted by the SYRIZA Government is the solution that the capital wants, because other companies can also sell gas to consumers. It is a solution to promote liberalisation in a Euro-Union orientation that will lead to increases in popular consumption, while the cost-benefit network remains under control of the state that must support it. However, profitable sales are privatised. Experience from liberation shows who loses and who wins. Changes will bring price increases, deterioration of network security conditions and huge profits to investors. You were preparing it a long time ago, so it seems that you are using organic workers through contractors that are the majority, 75% in natural gas companies. In fact, over a period of time they have signed contracts lasting one or two months and have been practically working for decades - over twenty years - in the PPA. It is precisely these workers who rely to a huge extent on the production process. They do the same work as permanent workers, but they are paid with lower wages and degrading wages for some younger people. This hostage scheme also affects other rights: pensions, compensation, development and others. In the privatization of state-owned companies, workers are regarded as a barbaric, which is why you are keeping contractors, i.e. uprooted workers. We consider it fair to request all these workers through contractors that there should be a conversion of their contracts into contracts of indefinite duration and, in fact, directly through the PPC or through the TEN for those who were transferred there as of 1 January 2017 and, indeed, for their pre-service to be recognised. So we also put forward their proposal and call on colleagues to adopt it, because without these workers, the new pattern cannot work. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] As regards the PPC amendment you tabled this morning, it is PPC's disinvestment amendment. We've already been told in our prior placement. There is a risk of rapidly depleting lignite reserves, because precisely the businessman who invests is not going to see its full exploitation, but he will look to see the deposits that have the greatest degree of thermal efficiency and of course he will give up the rest. So they will remain unexploited, with the risk of losing a valuable resource from this criminal exploitation of the deposits. We are voting against it. What do we suggest? We are saying this clearly, for the Communist Party of Greece, the exploitation of every source of energy is being examined with clear, concrete criteria, that is, firstly, whether it responds to the widespread people's needs, secondly, whether it ensures cheap current and, more generally, cheap energy product for the people, thirdly, whether it contributes to the development of domestic energy sources, fourthly, whether it enhances the safety of residents and workers in the energy sector and, fifthly, whether it leads to the expansion of the labour and insurance conquests and rights of workers in the energy sector and, sixthly, whether it ensures a reliable and sound system of electricity production for the country, taking advantage of the development of specific regions and countries in the industrial sector. These are deeply political issues. They relate to who owns the energy transmission and distribution instruments and to what basic criterion the technology, the size, the location of each solution is chosen, i.e. whether capitalist profit or the fulfilment of the expanded people's needs. This bill also expresses the anti-grassroots effect of the government. It is documented and confirmed the class orientation of your policy for the benefit of capital and monopolistic groups. That is why we are voting against the bill, as is your anti-popular policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The Minister has the floor, and then two parliamentary representatives will speak, Mr Dendias and Mr Panayotaros, and then we will start with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u65	Will the Members not speak in turn? After Mr. Treasury, it's me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u66	How do we get it like that? You haven't stated, Mr. Maniots. It does not go in the parliamentary order, but as you have said. Have you said? Anyway, come to the Chair and solve it internally. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have four major points in this bill. I would like to dwell on each of them and also on issues raised in consultation with the institutions and, of course, on the criticism that has been made in this bill by the representatives of the parties. I'm going to be a little bit on geothermality. In geothermality it is apparent that there is a great convergence, as far as the fact is concerned, that a single bill is finally introduced for a troubled sector, in which Greece has enormous potential, and this is reflected in the way we introduce geothermality as an integral part of the national energy and climate plan for 2030, where it has been submitted to the Commission and is the country's national strategy for the next 12 years, where geothermality together with other categories of RES is an integral part of the great energy transformation, which reminds us that their main objective is that 2030 Greece will produce almost 60% energy from RES and achieve the goal of 32%, i.e. in the whole of our consumption 32% to be of RES. I repeat that in this draft law, the regulations on geothermality create transparency rules, simplify the system, categorise the various categories, set the rules and benefits for local communities and pave the way for their exploitation, as has been put forward as well, in order to attract investments that are very useful for agriculture, tourism, public buildings and many other sectors of the economy. I will dwell on the second section, the section concerning the conversion of the EGM from its current form as a legal person under private law to a new body, which will have the characteristics of the legal person governed by public law. This entity is being upgraded. It acquires new activities and functions, is organised in a very specific way that also upgrades its current structure, maintains staff at the levels it currently has - about two hundred - it adds a few more, two hundred twenty people and fully safeguards the transfer of staff. Renewal of staff with the new regime for those who leave the organization now, as you know, becomes 'one to one'. There are no more Memorandum commitments, so the staff will be renewed. The PPE, the institution through which, as in the universities, but in all the other research centres in the country, research is developed unnecessarily. Finally, there are transitional provisions for certain categories of staff. The aim of the bill beyond the modernisation, upgrading and integration of this body in the perspective of the development of the mining sector and other activities related thereto is to respond to two more questions. Firstly, to return a page, since the old body had accumulated issues, which had to do with appeals to pensioners, private insurance and dozens of other issues and had practically led to paralysis of this institution. Secondly, to create the conditions - and this has also been reflected in the way the operator's new salary has been determined - the prospects and basis for a healthy and protected function of this operator. The third issue is the PPA, and here we are at the heart of a clear differentiation of the way in which the present government and, of course, the New Democracy - to my heart - faces the way in which KINAL is dealing with the energy sector. The government's strategy is very simple, imprinted and distinctive in all tons. The energy sector is being transformed. This imposed two major reform modules. First Reform Section: Adapting the entire institutional framework of the energy sector to distinct markets, unbundling networks, trade, activities, imports and so on, to a new institutional framework which has the characteristics of distinguishing activities and of course adapting the functioning of the energy markets to a more liberal context, with the aim of target model, which is the common European rule. In this respect, the cycle of reforms has been closed. The electricity market, the gas market in '17, a retail of natural gas, was liberalized in 1918, the energy market was established, the energy market at the end of 19 will operate and will have a forward market. So the way in which producers and consumers, large, small or medium-sized ones operate, will take another form, based on forward markets, bilateral contracts and many other issues. Secondly, the unity of these institutional adjustments has also been accompanied by a corresponding adjustment of companies, as a rule, monopolistic ones, which existed in the past. So we have received a model from the previous government, the Samara government, which said: privatization of the entire energy sector. DEPA, DESAFA, IPTO, 17% of PPC. It's all private. Against this model, which we have overturned - I stress it - and we have found another way of working, we have approached the issue with a simple start. The infrastructure and infrastructure networks will remain under public control and the retail segments of the retail trade, wholesale trade, etc., will continue to be privatised. We cut 17% off. 17%, therefore, of PPC is important not only to PPC, but also to the TEN, the main electricity grid, as you know. So this got out of the way. We overthrowded IPTO. I am going to turn to IPTO a little more because I have heard a criticism from the New Democracy, which I have to answer. We overturned the privatisation of IPTO and, in its place, full privatisation, kept the public in 51% and attracted a strategic investor, the 'STATE GRID', the largest network company in the world, which gave an excellent price and became a strategic investor at 25%. I am now opening the parable to answer Mr Skreka's dearest. Did he get the model? I list what he did in two years. It completed the interconnection of Cyclades I, which had been delayed a year and a half - I agree, completed it - because it was the stage 2015 and 2016 that became the - within introductory - "privateisation" and the finding of a strategic investor. It completes the Cyclades II until the end of the 19th. It completes Cyclades III until the end of the '20s. The small interconnection of Crete - not only has the project been announced, not only have investors who make the project been guaranteed - been built. It started and has eighteen months. It's been two months. In sixteen months, the small interconnection of Crete will work. Peloponnese. He was delayed and huge failures. Spatial drug problems, you know them. The spatial problems have been solved, especially in Patras and elsewhere, end 2019 will work. I recap: Cyclades I, Cyclades II, Cyclades III, Small Crete Interconnection, Peloponnese in two years. Investments? Over 600 million. And I close with the great interconnection, which was also matured within a year and a half by IPTO. This chapter must be permanently and irrevocably closed. I therefore consider that, because it is a matter of the highest national interest, there are no disagreements and there should be no disagreements between the political parties, and I claim that there is continuity in the way this issue is dealt with both by the previous government and by the current government. Let me put it quite simply. The great interconnection of Crete is rightfully a national project belonging to IPTO, as all major national projects belong to it and are in its investment programme. In order for someone else to do this work, IPTO has to give it to him, to tell him "I can't do it, you do it." That's not what the previous government did. He said, I agree to the great PSI and so on, but to the request that IPTO grant the project, he never granted it, despite the fact that there was a request. It is a project, which is national by its nature, rightfully integrated into a cross-border project. What was the solution? The solution was that chosen by the present government: that the project should be carried out together, instead of two projects, which have no meaning, with one condition - a red line that we have set, 51% of the project would belong to IPTO. Consistent national interest. We signed the conventions, said 'Come and do it', and then the other side began to retreat. Many retreats, too many retreats from what he has signed. I very much welcome the arguments about lost money, resources, etc. There are two issues that are of supreme national interest and we are not discussing it. In Crete, there must be a large interconnection. He had to start last night. With all this involvement it has been extended, and at the moment I count that we have wasted a whole year, not to say a half and a half. How much does this cost to the Greek consumer? Crete costs the Greek consumer EUR 450 million each year. Repeat the number, 700 million are paid by all Greek citizens and 450 million by 700 is the cost of Crete, which produces oil, etc. That's no longer the situation. It is 450 million, the damage it has suffered and 1,300 000 is every day that we are delaying this most important task. I close this issue, and that's the parentheses. So the project goes on, ARIADNE will go ahead or, as you wish, it's foreseeable. I repeat that the IPTO is now along with the 'STATE GRID', which is not a passive shareholder in IPTO. The "STATE GRID" adds technology, is the largest company in the world, has financial capacity, loans, etc. It is a guarantee for the IPTO and it was a model, which together with the 'STATE GRID' - I stress it - transformed IPTO into a body that could prove itself and quickly does big projects that were until yesterday unthinkable. So on this basis, we're going to move on. I consider IPTO to be an example of our own approach to this issue. State-owned companies are not cursed. On the contrary, under given circumstances and with this model it is shown that they can function and deliver and bring the desired results as long as they have reliable partners and strategic investors within it. I reply to KINAL's criticism. Yes, all these works are done by IPTO. With the Public Procurement Act and we will not step behind it, with transparency, with guaranteed conditions, without any opaque. That's the way they work. The new public procurement law has a very fast, clear and good system. In three months or five months' time the notices are being completed, tenders are being guaranteed and with terrible transparency we therefore defend that public companies must, and have the effect of doing so. I'm entering the third section. I therefore believe that we have also approached the issue of DEPA, the third major issue that we are discussing. And there we overturned a privatisation, which said "sale 65% of DEPA, such as infrastructure, trades". That is where we have again approached the issue and said that there should be a separation of the company into infrastructure, the one that develops the networks and we want the networks to be developed in thirty two cities, we want them to be developed in Athens more, and the commercial part which, as Mr Screkas said in detail, will work with some points. Let me now accept the points of criticism that are being made and that are two. Firstly, if 14% of the infrastructure is going to attract investors. In my opinion, it will be attracted. Example is IPTO. There are many strategic investors who accept to take a minority package and benefit from such an activity, which is good and mutually beneficial. So I do not think that by definition it will attract significant interest, because it is a minority package. The second argument is why the public procurement we have retained and a percentage of trade, to which we transfer all four long-term contracts, has veto rights over long-term contracts, namely transnational contracts, against the majority shareholder, the individual, who will be discouraged from making good commercial decisions? First of all, let us make it clear that it is not involved in the commercial activity that the shareholder will do at all. He'll buy and not sell, he'll do whatever he wants in the wholesale trade and in the retail trade. These contracts have two aspects. They are long-term, so the individual can choose them, because they are interests under specific conditions, i.e. if the agreement with a large producer from any country with a long-term contract of seven years or eight years is legitimate, it may be of greater commercial importance depending on how these trade agreements are calculated and specified. So this company will also have an advantage in this respect. Secondly, for the sake of security of the system. I think that in both cases the incorporation of this small percentage of the state into this company will create a greater advantage over private competitors, who, as you know, will operate on private-sector criteria, on contracts and on the basis of the gas market, short-term, medium-term, depending on how and what contracts they will have. So it is a chapter and not necessarily a restriction on the functioning of this company, and it will, in my opinion, be reflected in the very high price that will arise from competition for the acquisition of the PPA. Repeat, you will see that the price will be multiple and multiple of the transaction we have made by taking over the share of 'SHELL', in order to ensure infrastructures that they will go to the infrastructure PPA. Things have been heard that do not stand, if unbundling is mandatory. Yes, unbundling is compulsory, you can't have trades and networks and all that together, there has to be discrimination. That's where the regulations are now and that's where the whole market moves. I'm closing the issue of the DEPA with the worker issue. We put a three-year guarantee for those who will be transferred to the private sector. There is no doubt at all that the employees of IPCC are the big capital of the company. The company is very successful, there is no doubt about that. And the permanent and the contractors are actually...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u68	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u69	I shall conclude, Mr President. So our intention has been expressed in all tons. When the company breaks up, our aim is to integrate contractors too, because we consider that it is unacceptable for those who meet the fixed and permanent needs of the companies. They must be assimilated and made compatible with what we all want, i.e. companies working with normal workers, without discrimination at any level. In conclusion, I will be presenting myself with the amendments on a number of points. I am going to accept two - three points from Mr Screka's speech, but I will put the issues together with the legislative improvements that I will present shortly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Dendias, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will have a minute of time to answer the staff, which was previously said on the Golden Dawn side. Often, I ignore these, I do not pay much attention, but there is something I would like to comment on, because it also concerns my legal status. Ladies and gentlemen, I respect the presumption of innocence for everyone, obviously in the first place. But here, it is a little strange to have such an issue when the Chief of Golden Dawn himself took the political responsibility of death, at least, of Paul Bridge, if I am not wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u72	Murder, not death.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u73	So accepting political responsibility for the murder is what a divergence it has from moral automobile? To understand and agree a little. What does political responsibility for murder by a Golden Dawn official mean? That's not questionable. I would also like to say one more thing to miss the false inscriptions. Golden Dawn is not a nationalist party, ladies and gentlemen, at least at the core. There may be executives, perhaps some MPs, who belong to it, but the Golden Dawn, as Golden Dawn, its core is not nationalist, is nazi. It's a huge difference. Other Nazis and other nationalists. They always swear to Adolf Hitler. There's pictures of the champagne crosses. There are necropsies for Adolf Hitler from Golden Dawn executives. What are nationalists and green horses telling us here? Absolute Nazis are, nazis of the greedy kind. That's it. It's over. Let's leave it for nationalists and others, sell it anywhere else. I come now, Minister, on the subject of the legislation, but I note that you have not made any reference to what Mr Screkas, our diligent rapporteur, has said about the matter in Matti. And I'm not telling you about the criminal aspect, because the criminal piece is about justice. But the Prosecutor's finding creates a huge political issue and you here, Minister, represent the government, not only your Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u74	Are we going to start a conversation about Matty?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u75	What if we want to start? After our rapporteur has been placed, do you not think it is reasonable for the government to respond? The issue in Eye is of enormous importance because it fully highlights the enormous political responsibilities of the government and the Prime Minister for the death of a hundred people, not only did the government take over through the resignations of these officials immediately after the tragedy, but it tried to cover up. I remind you of a statement two or three days after the incredible tragedy of the Minister, who said, "But I don't understand what we were doing wrong? If I were in the same position, I would do exactly the same again, without being fired by the Prime Minister following this statement, which means the absolute acceptance, Minister, by the Prime Minister of united government responsibility for this tragedy. So criminal is going to be found by the courts, but politics, which is, on the one hand, the choice of the executives who will find it? I would remind you that the chief coordinating officer, the Secretary-General for Civil Protection, was a person who had been found to be inappropriate by a previous government, on my own government, to take up a post as a general minister. He who was not set up for a commander was set up by you as appropriate for a general. Did we lose a hundred people and there is no political responsibility? Is there no need to be said, in any case, something? I'm sorry, it's not enough here, but it wasn't even said. Don't say about the Prime Minister's incredible things he showed up to ask what time they're flying when we had the hundred dead and several other comedians. So I waited for you to place yourself, as a minimum. Eye is not something that will pass and be forgotten, as the government seeks. This is not going to happen. It is justice for the memory of the hundred dead, for there to be a complete breakthrough. And I say this with absolute respect for their memory, and that is why tones must be low, because we respect the memory of those who have been lost. But we cannot in the name of respect for the memory of those who have been lost, let the government pretend that the matter does not exist. This is a challenge, ladies and gentlemen. I'm coming to the law now. Mr Stathakis, if I may, with the courage of our not long acquaintance, but, I think - and I think - we are in a good relationship with a dressing remark. I see that you slowly abandon what is called the Tsakalotou Styl, if I may call it myself, and you are more suited to the clothing of a bank stem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u76	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u77	You, then, seemingly, come closer to us. But your legislative work does not come any closer, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, this piece of legislation will allow me to tell you that our rapporteur, Mr Screkas, has actually been placed on the table. Reading it is a sound SYRIZA legislation. What does that mean? First, there is an urgent procedure. Why urgent, ladies and gentlemen? Why emergency, Minister? Do you want to tell me one thing here that is urgent with the literality of the term, something that, if we look at it, the House must leave the right time and discuss it suddenly and quickly? It's not even a piece of legislation. We shall now proceed to the issue of the legislative, structured and structured issue. You are listening, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, the emergency has four parts. The first part is the reform of the framework for the exploitation and management of geothermal potential. That's supposed to be a headline and that's what we're talking about. The remainder is 'and other provisions'. Will you tell me, is that the law? Oh, no. There's a second place. What's the second place? The establishment of the Hellenic Authority for Geological and Mining Research, a legal person governed by public law. Here we are in the solid Syrian tradition. We're building another legal person under public law. We were supposed to have agreed that we should limit State spending, etc. But you have made about sixty-seven, I think, legal persons at this time. That must be the sixty-eighth. I'm probably wrong one or two, up or down. I hope you don't have time to incite them. I'm referring to the legal persons you're making. Part three, here we come to another point: Own-initiative separation of natural gas distribution networks. That's another matter. We're on our way to fourth. The fourth, however, again in the absolutely genuine Syrian tradition, which means that nothing is related to anything, is divided into four other parts. In other words, we have four issues in the legislation and four in the urgent legislation. The first is the register. And that is a very urgent matter. He had to go by special procedure. The second is rules on town planning. Then there is something else on energy issues, and in the fourth chapter there are some provisions on the Ministry of the Environment, which, if you love, ladies and gentlemen, also provides facilities for the hospitality and care of wild animals. This is in the geothermals legislation, Minister. Because every 'Syrian salad' must have the capers, there is the necessary one. What is necessary, ladies and gentlemen? The appointments. Because, please, look back at all your legislation. There is no piece of legislation you have, which does not have in some place a hidden appointing or favouring a group. This has been the way of legislation for four years. So what do we got here? Seventy-nine people, except S.H.I.E.L.D., of course. Far from the APRC, this country's historic conquest to leave rousfetti. Not on our own government, to be honest. It was the law of the late Penpillar to prove justice. The SYRIZA who was supposed to be in the name of decency and enforcement came to power, far away, the ASA, scapegoat. We have here seventy-nine people in the RAE, twenty-five in the APRADN and thirty in the ARIADN. Lawyers? Illegal. In your rosphetology, you're outlawing yourself. Minister, the Scientific Committee of Parliament is coming and tells you that it is inconsistent with the a.M.164/2004. And he even tells you that you do not specify employment time, which is compulsory. As a result, both Rusfetti and outside SAPA and illegal in the name of sovereignty. But, ladies and gentlemen, that is not enough. To be a real legislation of SYRIZA, there must be paradox. And I am referring, Minister, to this strange 80E which amends Law 4001/2011, which says an incredible thing. What's he saying? ‘Any integrated undertaking owned by the natural gas distribution network may not be prevented from taking measures to comply with the provisions of this Regulation’. In other words, the legislator comes in and says that it cannot be forbidden to comply with legality. And that is a provision that comes to the national Parliament for vote, ladies and gentlemen. You can tell me, by the way, what that says about legal curiosity? When we go to the legal schools in the years that come and are talking about this period and its paradox and its poor legislation and its russetology, we must also explain this as an example of a legislative work, which the legislature says is forbidden from making subject to law. What are these, ladies and gentlemen? Are we serious? Of course, the general paradox, Mr Minister, has no end. You came here and told us that, of course, your principle is 51% of network companies to remain in public. You told us that. What did you do with the D.C.D.? Those explanations you said I had, but, my, you, to him, tell him. After you had interrupted the competitive process, you could start from the beginning, you could do whatever you want. To understand: Can you come here and tell us on one hand and have done the other? And take this seriously? And even in a piece of legislation, which I described to you, I think accurately and without any fanaticism and without tension? I conclude with the question of the connection between Crete and Crete. Let us be clear, ladies and gentlemen. Our rapporteur will also tell you in his second language. Minister, we don't go into matters. You manage them. You're the executive. We are the legislative authority and we have audit work. What are we asking? First, it should be done in the cheapest way. To be honest, because we are talking to the government of SYRIZA: First of all, it must be done. Because that's a lot of talk too. To be done, that is, during our lives, not overreacting. Secondly, it should be made cheap, i.e. at a reasonable cost. To finance the project from extra-Greek resources. In other words, the Greek budget, Mr Minister, should not be bleededed into resources. Also, there are no fines. Your commitment to the National Representation is to tell them that "I with what I do fulfill one, two, three, four". It's over and out. You have a responsibility. You'll be judged for that. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that there will be a second set of arrangements for our rapporteur, Mr Screka. I have tried, in addition to the general issues, to show you for a while why the country is still in crisis. This piece of legislation, a piece of legislation that some of its provisions could be regarded as good intentions, and we could discuss them and some could vote on them in its entirety, Mr Stathakis, this picture created by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government in its first version - and SYRIZA just now - all this time. What is particularly pleasant to have to say to you - I do not think, ladies and gentlemen, that it is very pleasant for you and on a personal level we always wish that all of you will go well - but what is very pleasant is that this period in a few weeks' time with the good coming to an end. He will take over another government, which will seriously fix things, bring them straight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u80	What would you like, Minister? There was nothing personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u81	An inaccuracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u82	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u83	Mr Dendias showed that there was an apparel of mine and Mr Tsakalotos for years, from which we are slowly deviating.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u84	Simulation, no affinity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u85	It's inaccurate what you're saying. You have to fix it. Ideological affinity etc. But clothing, as you said, I think it's a long way from reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u86	I'm glad I offended you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u87	No, it's not an insult. It's a matter of precise wording. It's a pragmatic pretext. Let me give you a clarification. What you have read as a legal paradox is a European directive, which we have incorporated into the CIS. We are now bringing it back to the DEPA. There's no other dimension, that's what I'm saying. As far as recruitment is concerned, we will come back when the time comes for legislators. We are not the most suited to violating the APA, especially in the energy sector, since, as you understood, we found a few hundred contractors working for ten and twenty years. I guess you can't blame us for working things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Panayotaros, Parliamentary Representative from Golden Dawn, has the floor. Since the cycle has begun and all the Members of Parliament want to be placed, those Members of Parliament who want it will be placed in turn and then the list of speakers will be started. If a parliament does not come in order, ten speakers will be in front of it and the next Parliament will then be in place if there is no one in this House. You have the floor for twelve minutes, Mr President. Immediately after that, it's Mr. Maniac.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my speech, I should like to give Mr Tindemans an answer to what he has said. Firstly, in the Minutes, I put forward the clarification of the statement by the Secretary-General of the Golden Dawn, Mr Nikolaos Michalliakos, on 'I take political responsibility', which was not just two words. It was an entire paragraph explaining exactly what the Chief of Golden Dawn meant. Now, if Mr. Dendias, the Rochilds' lawyer, wants to use Stalinist propaganda methods, we're returning them back to him. They did the same in their all-powerfulness in 2013 and then a little while later, it was like this. And the notion is. And the parade, which organized the greatest political deed ever in our homeland, is slowly over. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And one of them - to remember and say some things - was Mr. Michelakis. When they were looking to find the hidden arsenals of the Golden Dawn in a museum of Mr. Pallis, instead of finding the arsenal of the Golden Dawn, they found Palli's turf with how much he gave and oiled Mr.Michelakis to ask questions for the benefit of Mr. Pallis at the expense of the interests of other businessmen. And finally Mr. Michelakis, when the case had to come and come within the Greek Parliament for the waiver of immunity, there was no waiver of immunity for SYRIZA put back. To remember everything. And then Mr. Michaelakis had also come out to talk about his case, but the current President of the Republic, Mr. Pavlopoulou, had legally explained why this case was not correct. Finally, when Mr. Michaelakis was not a Member of Parliament and had no parliamentary immunity, the case was brought to the audience and bell because he "taken" them to ask questions on behalf of a businessman at the expense of another businessman. That's all, Mr. Treasury. As you also fight and fight for self-determination of all, let us identify ourselves as we want and as we are. We are Greek nationalists and all your other designations we return them. Get them back. People don't eat either. And you've seen it despite the huge propaganda against us. You're passing through! As for what is happening in our country, we see a Greek society that is literally boiling at all levels. A Greek society that you have destroyed financially, after three and a half memos, near ten years of austerity, bleeding, dismantling the economy. A society that has collapsed at national level at the height of what has happened over the past one and a half with the shameful betrayal of the Prespecies, while the vast majority of Greek citizens have been and are opposed to this abortion, and even a few who have said that it may be an honest compromise, seeing the meteors have begun and changed their opinion, you of the Government continue to apply methods written by George Orwell in his book '1984'. I guess he had you in mind. Also, we're seeing blemish everywhere. Where you're going you have to have MATs, because without them you can't do anything. Preventive provocations, arrests and surveillance of citizens by oral Olga Gerovasili, which he said in word - in order not to say again that all of these are gembling methods - that "many of the preventive provocations that have been made at various events in recent months mainly in northern Greece, the provocations have been named and they know why. And they know what they were about to do. This is part of the work." Acknowledge that you're tracking everyone and everything. To understand the size of monitoring and the effort to reduce the public's expression on the Internet, we give you the details of the government's requests to Facebook and Google from 2013 to 2018 to see that requests to find out who the user of a website or site is have grown vertically. I'm filing it for the Minutes for whoever's interested. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Panagiotaros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Inside all the things that are happening also to Greek citizens who are muddled by the continuing throat that they accept at all levels, this famous finding of judicial authorities for the Eye has also emerged. Of course a few weeks before the Technical Chamber of Greece came out, which, as we all know, is fully politically controlled by SYRIZA and his people. She came up with a finding, which basically made Mrs. Durou oil. Because that's the thing. Our man coming out of oil. It has been blamed in the past, in what has happened over the past fifty years and several other deaf justifications. Of course, the conclusion of the public prosecutors tells who is responsible. The first to be responsible is Mrs Durou, who even yesterday's statement admits nothing and blames everyone else. That's a good morale. We saw that the finding casts blame and criminalized those who were all involved in that fiasco operetta press conference that Mr.Janakopoulou explained with map, with photographs from satellites, from the Greek space service and others that it was an organized arson plan and various other stories about young children. Finally, it was the criminal negligence of an elderly person in Daou Pendelis and the even greater criminal negligence on the part of all the services involved. In addition to all these terrible fears of services, we also had the tragic mistake that the supervising authority in Attica never gave the mandate to evacuate. Let this command be given and as all the experts now say most people would have been saved. By walking to the sea the elderly and the elderly would save their lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Panayiot, may I interrupt, please, for a few seconds. I have the honour to inform the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and two teachers from the 1st Alimos High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you very much, Mr. Panayotas. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u91	It is a government that has long lost the trust not only of the Greek people but also of the majority of Parliament. We see with various translations, secondments, promises, on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of the different drafts. Even now there are MPs belonging to the Independent Greeks, support the government and remain in the Independent Greeks. This government only needed a "fu" to fall. And instead, we see the New Democracy constantly putting back - either by words or by actions - such as the Chief of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, who, while our homeland is plagued by illegal immigration, the continuing invasion and dismantling of everything, is building up another leader of the right, the Hungarian Orban, because it has an anti-immigration policy. In Hungary there are no illegal immigrants, there is no crime, there is none of these problems, and we have everything to put back on SYRIZA. As far as this draft law is concerned, our rapporteur referred to the various issues. It's not just a matter. It's a pot of themes and themes. One general conclusion to which we could put forward and which we could point out is that with the memoranda that you have all voted on now - some people have voted for it all, and the first and second and third, you will get the grand prize - you have essentially awarded all the wealthy sources to foreign interests. Those of you who have not granted it, you are preparing it, as I say, against a lentil. All your actions or actions, everything you say here on the substance have no particular meaning. Even for future oil and gas deposits for which processes are constantly being carried out, there is a segregation between the government and anti-population officials who were once a government for who started this first. The question is whether the Greek state and Greek citizens will benefit from all of this. Unfortunately, we fear that they will not benefit from what you have actually signed on the ground at all. We see here a number of issues in this register. In this sinful Land register that the Greek people have now paid for decades, huge sums have been spent in the past and constantly, because they were eating this money and being lost, people were again asked to deposit cards, but always with the necessary paradox. Let's see once and when this famous Land register will end, so that we too can say that in this part we are a advanced state. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, the situation, I repeat and close, in our country is bad at all levels. Leann shortly, we will have the first elections, self-government and European elections in less than three months. In the self-government elections we will all give written samples of what we have done so far about what we are going to do and in the European elections it will be a first sign of writing to understand SYRIZA - ANEL that all that they have done these years has been against the will of the Greek people. We must also see what Civic Opposition, Opposition, we, if they touch the world. In particular, for the New Democracy which is being set aside for power in the next national election, see if it is convinced of the world. Because until now, the poles, gentlemen of the New Democracy, have shown that you are hammering to get out in front of the ruthless things that are happening in our homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Panayotar. Mr Maniotis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Independence, has the floor for twelve minutes. Immediately after Mr. Xydakis and Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u93	A hundred dead and not a single resignation. One hundred and one soul was unjustly lost and there was no nipple for anyone to quit. Defense according to justice. A felony for anyone who has basicly realized the chaos, the irresponsibility, the lack of responsibility, the cynicism, the indifference for tasks assigned to them by the state. SYRIZA once said: “We are government, but we do not have power” and claimed to take power in every way to rule the country properly. In the eye you had all the power. He was your chief of police. He was your chief of fire. It was yours, the Secretary General for Civil Protection. It was yours, the district officer. It was yours, the Prime Minister who set up the theatrical performance that night that he supposedly didn't know when there were official announcements that there were dead. It is your "Minister of Propaganda" who allegedly presented twenty-three simultaneous fires and when I asked him, in my question, to present to the House the satellite images, as well as the findings of the workshops that said there were twenty-three simultaneous fires, refused to submit them. It's all your political and moral responsibility. We are talking once again, ladies and gentlemen, a bill that has everything and has nothing. Our rapporteur, George Arvanitidis, has put forward our opinion on the unacceptable arrangements for both the IGC and the IGC. The PPA received it, Minister - and it is still today - as a very powerful retailer in natural gas and one of the most powerful companies in the Southeast Mediterranean on transnational political issues, involving leading geostrategic pipelines. With your setting you will make an empty shirt and the Infrastructure PPC and the Commerce PPC and you will, unfortunately, continue to hold the employees of the company hostages, which you have to go ahead and regulate. But you are not saying anything about the DEPA, about the EUR 155 million that you gave to SHELL, a company that has been strategic to leave the retail market all over Europe for a decade. We all knew she wanted to leave and gave her a gift of EUR 155 million, without any documentation. And you told us nothing about Manolis Petsiti and the EUR 120 million Laurentiadis owed. Have the necessary measures been taken by the DEPA internally so that things will not get any worse? And, of course, the question is a huge one and it is a question now to justice. When there is a public reference - and we imagine that there is in the file - to the names of ministers involved in the Laurentiadis scandal, this dossier, instead of coming to Parliament without delay, where is it? What's going on? In this bill, SYRIZA could not avoid once again repeating the shames of illegal recruitment outside SAP. The Energy Regulatory Authority, ladies and gentlemen, is a great body that SYRIZA voted against when we brought the legislation on the creation of the regulator. However, the regulator is responsible for not allowing hidden competitions and agreements between a cartel in the energy companies. And instead of the government honouring the children who are learning letters, studying, doing postgraduate and doctoral and objectively strengthening the Energy Regulatory Authority, it provides, outside every procedure, essentially illegal recruitment of seventy-nine government bests. And it continues with equally illegal and incomprehensible recruitment of another thirty in this special investment vehicle - which I will come back to - which is supposed to - build the electrical interconnection of Crete - Attica as a national project. You've deceived the energy regulator and become him a co-man of the Ministry. And that is why the RAE administration has asked you to pass the provocative arrangement, the unacceptable one that no Minister had ever thought of passing before, that the members of the RAE should be relieved of their civil responsibilities. Why has no Minister gone through this ex ante discharge from civil liability for RAE over so many years? What do you want to hide? Who told you they wouldn't sign if you didn't relieve them in advance? 'Cause obviously you didn't get any sky down. Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue with two top national issues relating to the energy issues of the country and which I consider to be at a serious risk. The first issue is the electricity interconnection between Israel - Cyprus - Crete - Attica, the well-known 'EuroAsia Interconnector', a project which we planned between 2011 and 2014 and which we incorporated into the funded European programmes with a view to getting around EUR 350 million from the European funds. It has already taken 70m euros to mature the studies. In addition to all other things - because this is the first cable linking two continents, Asia and Europe - it removes the energy, electricity isolation of Cyprus, removes the electrical isolation of Crete and helps very much to secure the country's energy balance. It is a project that was progressing properly. Four years now, deliberately, serving suspicious purposes and suspicious interests, the government has led it to a dead end. And where did we get here? This is the official announcement by the Cypriot Government and the European Commission, the joint communiqué dated 27 February 2019: ‘The European Commission's Directorate-General for Energy, the Cypriot Government, all Cyprus institutions are requesting the Greek Government...’.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u94	And EuroAsia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u95	And EuroAsia. I don't care! I'm interested in the Cypriot government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u96	And the company.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u97	Minister, you don't sound!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u98	I am also interested in the European Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Maniatis, don't open a dialogue. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u100	Shame on you! Don't hide it! Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u101	Minister, please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u102	I'll tell you what you're doing, because you have to apologize. The Cypriot Minister for Energy has sent a letter to Mr Stathakis for a few weeks and he says to him: "Please, come to dialogue, because I want to take away the energy isolation of my country, my island." And Mr Kanete, the European Energy Commissioner, tells him the same thing. And I ask the House to submit the letter from Mr Lakkotrippi, the Minister of Cyprus, and the letter from Kanete and the replies from Mr Stathakis, and they have never been tabled. What do you want to hide?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u103	They've been filed. They've been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u104	What do you want to hide? I will, however, tell you how it is revealed by purpose what you want to hide. I am tabling the joint communiqué of the European Commission and the Cypriot Government on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned communiqué, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you know what the current government does, ladies and gentlemen? He said supposedly heroic: I will do it in Crete - Attica national project". Do you know what "national work" means? It means that I do not sign the request to get the EUR 350 million cable from European money, and I charge the Greek citizen, the Greek consumer with 400 million from the Public Investment Programme. Furthermore, at least two years is delaying the implementation of the great interconnection of Crete - Attica. The Minister said earlier that every year for a delay of connection between Crete and Attica costs 450 million euros. Yes, we agree. The two years, therefore, cost the Greek citizen EUR 900 million more, plus another 350 million that we will lose from European funds, more than EUR 1.1 billion. That is your policy. It is a politically harmful for the country, a politically harmful to the public interest, a politically harmful to the Greek citizen. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with what Mr Stathakis, once again, said in his interview yesterday to ERT. I am going through the big geopolitical theme of the discovery of the very good hydrocarbon deposit "Glaukos" in Cyprus. So in the question of what SYRIZA has been doing for four years, Mr. Stathakis said that a competition had been opened by the previous ones, but that was bad, and that is why there was no interest in the twenty-sea plots in Ionian and south of Crete. Ladies and gentlemen, I have before me the 'Official Journal of the European Union', where the international notice of competition was published. Do you know when the competition was opened? This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following On page 9 of the notice, do you know what it says? ‘Tenders will be submitted within six calendar months’. We are talking about May 2015. If there is a failure in the tender, then, it is a failure of SYRIZA, which prevented investors from submitting tenders. This competition took place with the world’s top two scientific advisers, after advice from the world’s largest company, the Norwegian ‘PGS’, which makes seismic investigations, and, in addition, with advice from the French State Institute for Petroleum ‘BEICIP’...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u106	I shall finish, Mr President. ...which both "PGS" and "BEICIP" were the official advisers of the Greek state and made the construction of the plots. If, then, the current government thinks it has better advisors, to make new rejoicings. We will not, however, allow anyone to undermine a national effort, which, today, if it had moved forward at the rate that took place in 2011-2014, would contribute EUR 500 million in the country's insurance system and in a depth of EUR 3 billion, based on our law on the Solidarity Fund, the 2013 Act, which SYRIZA voted against and which has just been adopted by Cyprus ten days ago, following us, adopted the logic of the Norwegian model and created the Cyprus Solidarity Fund. I submit for the minutes the notice of invitation to tender in the ‘Official Journal of the European Union’. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But - and I will close with that, Mr President - there is another matter. The wider region of Greece, the Southeast Mediterranean region, is shattered by turmoil, wars or civil wars. Greece can and must, together with Cyprus, form a very powerful national, patriotic geostrategic upgrade of the two countries as the only new source of supply with energy products throughout the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u107	Complete, Mr. Comrade,
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u108	I shall conclude, Mr President. I won't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u109	You've spoken for seventeen minutes already. Secondary accounts do not exist in parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u110	For many months now, the EXXON MOBIL - colossus - has been offering it the two plots south and southwest of Crete which ensure the full influence of Gadus - make the reduction with Kastelorizo - and open to the bay of Syrits. And we tell the Government: Procedures for the two plots - guaranteed on maps for four years from the competition - to the east under Crete, to stop the Turk from provoking with maps showing his own EEZ reaching to the south of Crete. And the government refuses to attract powerful players, who, as in Cyprus, can play the role of Greek state partner. With these, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that we will vote against this bill. That is why we are tabling our national anguish that things as they go work, unfortunately, at the expense of national interest. That is why we are calling for national elections to be held as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Maniots. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Elementary School of Aliartos Boiotia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Stathakis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u112	What Mr. Maniotis has heard is a shame. I mean it. They're inaccurate. The meeting of Cyprus was provoked by EuroAsia. You hid it. Secondly, the three letters, mine, Mr Kanete and Mr Lakkotrippi, have been published in the papers. I have been instructed to be given to you and the three letters. There's nothing wrong with that. The delay for two years has not been made by the government. The MOU was signed in October 2017. “EuroAsia” refused to sign SPV's ‘share hackers agreement’, RAE assigned the project in September, given a deadline to buy 49% of the shares by Christmas, and the official PCI overseeing, since June 2018, declared the project a two-year delay. Which government is stalling? Who are you serving with these inaccuracies that you're saying? Really, who are you serving? The project has been characterised as a delay since 2014. At what stage of maturation is the second part of Cyprus - Crete? Zero. I'm telling you. We are not playing with national interests. No one will get a project that will be done. And the only way to do this is by means of co-operation with 51%. If the other can't, he doesn't want or have a different interests, it's another story. Greece will not sacrifice its greatest national importance in a further expansion and involvement with an unexistent company - to be honest now - which has no franc, no technology, no project has ever done it, and some, for various reasons, still consider that it can carry out the largest project in the country. It can't be done. Greece will proceed and proceed in the only way possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Maniatis, we're not opening a dialogue right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u116	For a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Maniotis, you've been talking for eighteen minutes. The Minister answered what you mentioned. So I won't give you the floor for a minute. We won't open a dialogue. We are delaying this process right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u118	Just a minute, I'll answer the minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u119	Mr Maniotis, you said something, the Minister answered, we are not opening a dialogue right now. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u120	There's a request to give me the floor for a minute. I'm a parliamentary representative...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u121	I will give you the floor, Mr Maniotis, because you are the parliamentary representative, but I do not want to open a dialogue. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u122	No, not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u123	It's out of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u124	He's not out of rule. As a parliamentary representative, he is entitled to speak. He's a parliamentarian.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u125	It's out of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u126	Listen, I didn't mean to give another document to the public. However, once the Minister said that Mr Lakkotrippi's letter, the Minister of Energy of Cyprus, has been given, I am also freed and I shall submit it in the Minutes. What does the Cyprus Energy Minister say, 16 October 2018? "We are concerned about the danger on the island of Crete - Attica cannot be proved to be a cross-border nature unless it is presented before the European institutions as a single part of the Cyprus-Attica interconnection." After that, the Minister will do well to answer the top question I raised to him, for what interests are served by becoming only Greek citizen's money in Crete - Attica. I submit to the Minutes the letter of the Cypriot Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Maniot. Mr Xydakis, Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u128	I would like to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u129	Clearly, if you wish, Minister, you can respond after the dialogue has been opened. You have one minute at your disposal too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u130	The only answer is so simple, I wonder why you are dealing with the matter further. When the subject of "ARIADNE" was closed with PCI - because it closed this topic - the only act that EuroAsia had to do, to continue the PCI fully, integrated as they say, was one: to write in a glue a sentence: "EuroAsia" as a project promoter, I recognise "ARIDN" as a body implementing the first part of the project. And there was no problem anymore. Because 'ARIADNI' as part of the PCI, with that recognition - it is a proposal, and that is what I said to my Cypriot colleague and my friend - would proceed properly. The second part, when ripe and having ensured that the technical specifications will be the same, will find another SPV format and move forward and so on. So the whole matter is a simple admission, which he signed in October 2017, undoed his signature and after he entered the issue in a series of RAE's decision, etc. And since he did not have the money to participate in "ARIADNE", he simply had to recognize it. My letter to Kanete says that it must, under the European regulation, recognise it because it is unable to do anything else. ‘He is authorised to recognize...’. Doesn't he? What do you want us to do? Shall we wait?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Minister. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has the floor for twelve minutes. Immediately after the speech Mr. Karathanasopoulos will be given. Mr. Xydakis, I apologize for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u132	The debate on political behaviour is interesting. It shows to a large extent how KINAL is currently dealing with. An unexplained hysteria, which often builds signs of friction, builds out dehydration and overattitude, unfortunately, to cover an existential political deadlock. In this direction too, in the ten cases, full and detailed answers are given, as now. The best answer Mr. Stathakis gave to Mr. Maniatis is that the letters he calls for and not submitted have been published in the press. He does not read newspapers, issues he is interested in, issues in his sector, Mr Maniotis' portfolio. Or what he blames the government and the Minister for serving interests, serves them himself. But if we reach the political dialogue in intercategories who's lobbying for who, it doesn't make any sense. Mr Maniotis knows very well - Minister for Energy was - and the contracts and who the contractor is, the contractor of this great project, and if he can handle it with the commitments he has given and if he cannot. All the rest, all the others, all the patriotic tones, with large geopolitical crowns and, unfortunately, let me be allowed, with excessive promises to the Greek people that as long as the national problem is solved, we want great attention, we have a great obligation. Neither in Cyprus solves a huge problem - decisive steps are taken, and this tone ensures that the Government of the Republic of Cyprus - nor in Greece - ensures that Greece becomes next week Norway! It takes seriousness, wisdom, and say what we have in our hands at all times, not to be crazy about the citizens who are listening to us, creating over-expectations that create other psychiatry, rather dangerous for both the country's history and the work it needs for its reunification. Seriousness, a few words and not that demagogue we heard before. But the political conclusion is - and also applies to KINAL and major opposition, New Democracy - that this per moment of fiery demagogy has a few patterns. It has the pattern of selective concealment, selective silence. It has the pattern of resentment that you once told us something and now here we ask for the strategic defeat to be drawn to your knees. A curatorial stubborn supply of division and civil war. And all this lack of strategy - particularly on social and economic policy issues by the New Democracy - is overestimated and replaced by the systematic reverential production of false news, rumors, who anyone who considers himself a serious reader of public texts of public speech, exposes the most time to cross-examination of hoaxes and make news, lies and teratologies, rather than trying to understand, approach with trust in primary sources, primary news. There's nothing left. The daily agenda is powered by conspiracy for Venezuelan plane, with conspiracy for who is carrying gold at the "Eleftherios Venizelos" airport, with incredible constructions of lies that enter the lips of Ministers, as Mrs Gerovas recently. Every day from the morning at 8.00 p.m. until 12.00 p.m. the entire midday sphere is flooded by such rumors, lies and constructions, which collapse until afternoon, and the next day at some offices have built the next wave. It would be vicious and show the political shallowness of political forces and political opponents, unfortunately, all this construction of lies, resentable waves, waves of resentment and construction. Because that's the strategy. It is the construction of a self - astonishing prophecy that there is a tendency that the world turns its face, which is not even recorded in popular terms, according to these cries and screams on the median sphere. A self - astonished prophecy, which is typical of the adversary’s rejoicing, is being built if the country is damaged in order to damage the political opponent. Rejoice in the opposition, if the country is damaged by the acts of the Government and deny the great and existenceful gains, the great and lasting victories recorded day after day, week after week, for the country to return when it occurs from the hands, actions and actions of the present government. Mr. Nikos Dendias said the same thing about the court investigation in Matti. It considers that there are political responsibilities. Political responsibilities are recorded in history and in the consciousness of the Greek people, which judges us. However, what we can say is that a few months after the great human tragedy, for which all the Greek people have been mourning, Greek justice has found a finding and charges. This is an answer to all hysteria, demagogue and appalling psalmology, that the SYRIZA government interferes with judicial authority. It is completely alone, completely independent, completely inappropriate to go ahead with the dossiers and the issues that he judges and wants to move forward. That's an out-of-date proof. However, I would like to ask ourselves when the major fires in the Peloponnese took place, when criminal responsibilities were attributed, when indictments were made and when they arrived before the audience. Let us remember these, because no one is yesterday. We are all involved in the passions and sufferings of the Greek people, we all have the share of political or moral responsibility, but criminal responsibility is something else and concerns the courts. With regard to the objections of opposition to the draft bill's urgency - Mr Dendias said so - I think the Minister will answer his second language. However, three of the four meetings of the Committee were held. One did not happen, the one under article. Nor has the legislature been pushed to legislate and substantial discussions have been omitted. And the institutions have heard and heard interesting things, and there is also a political restriction. Next week the Eurogroup meets and the arrangements for the DEPA are within the big package of prerequisites. It is an obligation for the Greek state to do so. It is doing so, it legislates, so that the Minister of Finance can go ready, with what he promised, to discuss the important rewards from closing down the prerequisites. Nor are they issues in this legislative package brought by the Minister for Energy, Mr Stathakis. They've been heard by the agencies. That's what matters. It sets a regulatory framework and regulates too many issues on geothermality in things that had never been done. Everyone recognized that. So I do not understand why all this sterile refusal and demolition, except one. The expression - let me say -'reserved' KINAL has its own existential agony and emits its own resentment waves to the government, and the New Democracy has a total absence of strategy on the big issues of economic reconstruction in the country, to become a country with a torso and skeleton that will not break like a fare in the first great international crisis and a total absence not only in the absence of it, but also a strategy which is miserable and antisocial on all issues of social policy, the protection of the social state, the protection of public health, the protection of the public school. The person you are emiting, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to the Greek people on the big issues of the social state, is hideous and appalling. Either way, they're running away from you. People understand, they know who defends the world of work, the world of production, the world of social development and not the growth of oligarchs, with whom you are allies. These are recorded both within the work of the Parliament and in the work that is being done, the great social production, the great social film unfolding in society, the workplaces, the streets, the co-ordination areas and the top moment of representative democracy, at the time of the polls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Parliamentary spokesman from the Communist Party of Greece Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor and immediately after that, the list of speakers begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, it is a deplorable debate on responsibilities in relation to the devastating consequences of the fire in Matti. We're saying we have to go on, it's got to be done. However, this public prosecutor's investigation cannot cover what has been confirmed in the case of huge political responsibilities, for the crime of the former governments and for the current government as well as for the measures which should have been taken. Because life itself has shown that integrated flood prevention, fires or earthquakes do not fit into the capitalist development path, the safeguarding of capitalist profit, capitalist property on earth. Of course, it is obvious that a government as rare as the current government, the SYRIZA government, has done so much in such short space of time for the large capital, for the ruling order. This also confirms the current draft law which you are bringing to the vote on. In other words, the SYRIZA government has a high rate of reactionary directions at the expense of the people. That is why the New Democracy and not only the New Democracy, but also the transformed PASOK, no longer know what to say and lose their seriousness, when they blame you for a left-wing idealism, because you are the protagonists of the conservative attack against the people's interests to recover the profits of monopolistic groups. After all, this draft law is part of the prerequisites for the second assessment. Of course, it is a convenient controversy that the other parties of the opposition have made you, much more when they appear as business lobbyists, as the PASOK Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Maniatis, did, even at the advanced point, to say that they are defending the sovereign rights of their country, seeking to hand over the land south of Crete to the American 'EXXON - MOBIL'. It seems that nothing has been learned from the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean, who is the one who set fire to the reservoir, namely the American multinationals, the American imperialists themselves and their naval allies, so that they can control hydrocarbons, redistribute the sources of hydrocarbons and the transport routes. That is why today's debate is evolving is a debate between such business interests, which are far from satisfying the people's needs and much more dangerous for our country's sovereign rights. So there is no need for much to be said to reveal that your promises of a development from which all workers will benefit, are shattered by the assignment of the country's mining wealth to big capital and practically without any control from the new round of promotion and support for renewable energy that will increase even further the electricity tariffs or the increases in gas tariffs that will be brought about by further market liberalisation and privatisation. The government's development is a growth for large capital, for monopolistic groups. It requires cheap labour, new concessions to the large capital, modulation of modern terms and conditions, in order to make the Group's investment even more effective, even more profitable. That is precisely the draft law you have brought to the House today for a vote. In fact, you do this with particular nerve, showing the white one. In other words, you show the dissolution over the substance of the EGMM as an enhancement of its role, when you are effectively reducing its staff, you are breaking down labour relations and the acquired workers' rights, and you are building on the depreciation of something that you have as current government, but also the previous governments are condemning. In fact, the new principle that you create and replace the IGM will be directed primarily at providing simple advice on specific civil protection issues. What's your goal? Your aim is to lose even the elementary possibility that existed for a knowledge of the real mineral wealth and stocks that exist in our country, so that mining groups can multiply their profits. This method is tested. It is the same method that you have followed on the subject of hydrocarbons. Besides, it's your driver. In other words, you are renting plots - so you will do with mining wealth - where the groups can go ahead with the investigations, without any substantial control. You're doing exactly the same with the geothermality you bring in the same bill. So that is exactly what you are following for the country's mining resources. Who will do the relevant investigations? Even on your own terms, who will control the manner in which the mines are operated when the new structure you're building has much less staff, a larger range of responsibilities and a more subtitling infrastructure? In other words, you're turning the IGM from a state advisor to mining companies. That is what you are doing, of course, by proving that the cloak of the person you are turning it into public law is nothing but the defence through this public law of the interests of business groups. So the draft law, in addition to the degradation and change of the character of IGM, brings the full privatisation of the country's geothermal potential. Geothermal sources enter the market, leased to the majority. What does that mean? It means the needs of the workers and the people are fleeing the scene. Geothermal resources will not be used to warm poor people or to produce food for agricultural production, because these activities do not employ the large capital. What concerns it is precisely to be able to use the geothermal resources, to increase its profits or to contribute these geothermal resources to warm up the swimming pools of large hotels scattered on the islands. So SYRIZA moves in the same line as all previous urban governments. It grants a valuable energy resource to the large capital, with its sole aim of profitability. The liberalisation of geothermality will not have a positive effect on the workers, on the country's popular strata. Geothermal energy is transformed into a commodity and, in fact, regions undertake to play the role of the Geothermal Use Manager at local level among the business interests to be unfolded. And in the third part of your bill you are speeding up the process of liberating the gas sector. With the bill you are bringing today, you are decisively promoting liberation. The Government is preparing the ground to privatise the PPA and to further promote the liberalisation of the gas market through the separation of the PPA, the PPA for Infrastructure and the PPA for Trade. On substance, PPA Trade is privatised and the State maintains control of PPA Infrastructure. This way, what do you manage to do? This is how you allow other companies, private companies, to exploit the gas distribution network for their own gas. So the solution which the government is opting for today and for the physical archive, that is to say the state of control of the networks, is what the capital wants, because you understand that, in order to create a network and maintain it, it needs huge funds. Therefore, companies find the network being made, developed and maintained under the responsibility of the State and through this process ensure their profits, by simply selling the gas, their merchandise. In this respect, therefore, in order to contribute to this process of further liberalisation of trade, you are also privatising the IPCC. Of course, all this process is to lead to new increases in the gas price for the people's consumers by trapping all those who rushed to connect to natural gas. The very same result was achieved by the liberalisation of electricity. So we do not need to make much effort to remind you of what you have been saying all these years and what previous governments have said about the liberalisation of the electricity market. What's the real result? It is that electricity bills have been ejected over the past twenty years. It is that labour relations have been overturned for workers in electricity companies, first and foremost in PPC. It is precisely that mountainous volumes have been delivered for industrialisation through the extensive wind and photovoltaic parks you are creating, endangering the biodiversity of the country, the natural wealth of the country, additional crops such as livestock farming, apiculture and, of course, creating very serious risks in protecting the people's families, the settlements, the settlements of flooding phenomena. Thus, liberalisation in the gas sector will lead to a sharp increase in gas prices. And through this process the only winner will be the companies that are active in the trading of gas, knowing of a huge profit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude with one last point, Mr President. So capitalist development, which you are of course serving, of course, requires investment. Investments estimate profits. However, the Groups' profits also require further liberalisation of the market, the formation of new profit margins for large capital, and even the elementary state control of what is being extracted, for what it is produced, for how it is traded, by acting on the substance undisturbed. And you in this bill prove to be the best servant of the interests of capital and of this development path.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Let's start with the speakers. Mr Kamatos of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u136	Why only five minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u137	It's urgent. You know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u138	I will respect that, Mr President. I'll try to be in my time. Just because I have two amendments to support, I may need a little more time. We have tabled two plus one amendments. I say 'plus one' because it will be supported by Mr Tsironi and it concerns the register. However, because it also concerns the islands, let us make a brief reference. Of course, in general terms, the bill brings too many improvements that serve the citizen, both on a matter of time and on a matter of money that he must testify to complete the register. What has been found - and the Deputy Minister of State has been kind enough to inform us - is that there have been too many errors of overlap or differences in the real estate registers as they evolve and will require corrections. Again for the benefit of the citizens, the amendment we are tabling is that there should be a year to make a correction by scholars after a competition. As far as the second amendment is concerned, it relates to construction in public areas in settlements that do not have an approved plan. Because you know there are settlements with some limits, they work as settlements, but they don't have an approved plan. The institutional framework that provides for what can be done in the public spaces and we have improved it - if we had time, we could develop it with great interest, to see what direction it is - does not apply to these settlements. So the amendment provides for this to be applied to the settlements as well. Why does that mean all over the country? You know very well that the settlements without an approved plan are far more than the towns that have approved a plan. So imagine, in the village squares, in the islands, in all these settlements, which have no approved orthotomic plan, that no one can build anything. Even these mats on the four woods or any constructions which could be stylish after a study and after approval by an architectural committee, after a renewal study, cannot be carried out, if we do not make this amendment, to be applied to the settlements. The second amendment concerns the demarcation of small projections. With a legislation that was last passed - in 2014, if I am not mistaken - I see it as very well, in my opinion, how the streams should be delimited. It ranks them in large, medium, small, determines a procedure. The simplest procedure is that after localisation and inspection, the competent authorities always come up with a decision of the decentralised administration. In some other cases, which are considered most important, a presidential decree needs to come out. However, in an article it provides that in areas of archaeological interest all presidential decree is needed. In other words, there may be a small ditch of a few centimeters, which forces the person close to this property to move up to a presidential decree in order to make even a small agricultural warehouse. You can understand, of course, that this creates too much bureaucracy in the construction of areas, particularly where we have areas - almost all of the islands - which have been declared of archaeological interest. They do not concern the archaeological zone of absolute protection or construction control that sets conditions for construction limited, etc. We are now talking about areas where archaeology declares them of archaeological interest and which simply controls the foundations of any building. That's what's gonna happen anyway. The amendment we have tabled does not cancel it. It is simply instead of the Presidential Decree that it should be possible to do so by decentralised administration and, after controlling everyone, by the procedure that it provides for everything to be done legally and correctly. Finally, in the time left, let me make a brief reference to the bill and as the first speaker, because we have heard a great deal and, in particular, I am disturbed by the heavy words: 'defence', 'provocative', 'drug', 'dream','serve the interests of big capital'. All right, let's see very soon in a minute if it serves the interests of big capital to make use of geothermality, ladies and gentlemen. In other words, will the people not benefit from the benefit of the people's family, will they not benefit the inhabitants of a region, if they have free or cheap hot water? Who's benefiting? Of course, the whole use will somehow be made. Again, we are making sure there is control. That's why this framework comes in, so there can be control over the whole process. So, like geothermality, much more - not to say all - articles in the bill are pro-liberal, pro-environmental and, at the end, developmental. Something important for geothermality: It says and imposes that everything will be done in consultation with local communities. Secondly, I said a few things before, because we tabled the amendment. This, the existence of a Land register, who's benefiting? Isn't that a development project? I will end with one last for the town plans provided for by the bill, especially for arbitrary constructions. Look, when we passed in November 2017 the Law of the Ministry of the Environment, which provided not only for amendments and regulation on the settlement of arbitrary disputes but for the adoption of building permits electronically, provided for a new procedure and a new philosophy for the demolition of arbitrary ones and much more for the prevention of arbitrary ones by setting up an Electronic Monitoring Observatory and all these things that help not to become other arbitrary ones. However, a key element of philosophy that will help not to repeat this whole story with arbitrary ones is how they are demolished. I know it couldn't be easily demolished. I would just point out to you - and I conclude, Mr President - that is to say, the bill provides that, regardless of whether the demolition protocol is consistent with this situation, in which the public is going to find it demolished - because we have such cases - demolition will include not only the original arbitrary, but also the ones that have been made about it. And that is necessary, because so far and particularly because we are talking about Eye, that was what was observed in Matti, they were going to demolish the arbitrary and because there was this discrepancy, they were forced into a new court procedure, which is why you understand how many years it took. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u139	Please, all of you, because the procedure is urgent, time has been set at five minutes. To have a minute tolerance, I understand. But don't get out of line. I don't want to cut off microphones. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-four students and students and four educational attendants from the 26th Municipal School of Patras. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here you have the floor for five minutes, Mr Pinheiro, because this is an urgent procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u140	Time's down?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u141	Time's down from the beginning. You have all been informed from the outset. That's why I said it. There's a relative tolerance, but I can't do more than six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, you surprise us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u143	No surprise, ladies and gentlemen. It was announced by the President-in-Office from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u144	Following your dear habit, you are bringing a draft law in the form of an emergency, which has serious parameters. But you have chosen the quick and sloppy way instead of the fertile dialogue. The main themes of the draft law were the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Kostas Skrekas. I am referring only to the pioneering action of the Municipality of Alexandroupolis in the field of geothermality in the Prefecture of Evros. Innovative thoughts and visions inspired us all. We encouraged them and forced the government to deal with them. Two words on geothermality: Geothermal fields have been identified in thirty areas of our country. Geothermal energy can be used in many cases. It ensures the energy autonomy of regions in various productive sectors. In the period 2011-2012, the Municipality of Alexandroupolis, Minister, started the geothermal effort. He managed to get in 2013-2014 in the geothermal field of Aristine through an international competitive procedure from the Decentralised Administration of Macedonia - Thrace the planned license. In 2017 the only license for the distribution of thermal energy was issued in Greece for all geothermal uses. A year later an international competition was opened for the construction of the first project and with a positive result. The vision of the local municipality, however, did not stop here. There's more remote heating in the area of the old Traianopolis. This project ensures that nearby villages and residents are provided with cheap heating for their homes. If that is not the definition of innovation, Minister, and the development perspective of a municipality, then what is it? It has now become convinced throughout the prefecture that such geothermal projects offer fertile ground for multiple investments, which will also bring many jobs but also many benefits to our local society and our economy. We are hammering for our acronym and neural region, because we believe that the Prefecture of Evros can evolve into a model of prefecture throughout the country, as my motto has always been, as has always been the motto of all the Evros: 'Of course not.' And all that with a government that is ideologically approaching all investments. The Municipality of Alexandroupolis in this area, however, delivers you free lessons, for what it means to real growth without the bonds of stateism and without party logic. The achievements belong only to the Municipality of Alexandroupolis that sells know-how, namely the local mayor and the Vice Mayor of Trajanoupolis. Use them as a road map, to move the rest of the country, in the region of which we have geothermal fields. There are two questions, however, Minister, which we really want your answers. The 2016 Development Law is your work. Of course, there are no incentives and privileges in border regions. Since the new development law is expected, will you include the subject of geothermality, so as to encourage the local municipality and other municipalities in the country, but above all private entrepreneurship? Also, the geothermal field of Samothraki is known and estimated to be both exploitable and exploitable for other actions, not only for health tourism. What measures will you take for the synergy that appears to come from the two local municipalities of Alexandroupolis and Samothrace? How will you encourage them to cooperate for the benefit of local society and not just? Minister, since we have you here, I have raised with three questions the issue of the wind parks' rewarding end, which was of thirty-three prefectures in the country. This has been abducted. A solution has indeed been found. A President-in-Office of the Council has been promoted, and indeed with an expedited organization called the CAPE, in honor, they have put back on them and the Presidential Decree has even ended. This total amount of the four years 2010-2014 was distributed and distributed. I have already asked you a question about what you will do for the four years 2014-2018. Local municipalities have benefited from the benefit of the local communities - in kind - and everyone expects your decision, as far as the allocation of these amounts that have already been guaranteed is concerned, under the relevant law adopted by the previous government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too. Mr Karras, from the Group of the European Democratic Alliance, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, a government-friendly panic is when it wants to go through something with the urgency procedure, including dozens of other issues, so that, under pressure of time without the normal parliamentary procedure, it will give solutions that it is supposed to want. Today's bill does not deal with a matter. It is faced with too many problems from time to time, by fixed provisions. I'll start by talking about geothermality, which is the title of the bill. Geothermality is afflicted. Why is she upset? For the country's large geothermal fields have been committed to PPC for many years. PPC indifferent or did not want geothermality to function competitively to electricity production and remained untreated and still invoked by local social reaction. But today, when we need to change the print of production and go to renewable energy, we must support geothermality, but not with the philosophy of continuing that philosophy, which has, decades ago, inactivated the large geothermal fields. I want to be absolutely clear and clear. I have long supported the view that geothermal fields should be declassified as ore. They're not ore. It's a natural resource. They will be able to have their own autonomous legislation dealing with ownership and management - but not in the sense of ore - being held for the benefit of the state, forever. Because the first geothermality law I've met him in my career as a lawyer in 1985-- if I'm accurate, maybe a little earlier. My personal proposal, therefore, is to declassify it from the mining code and according to the value of high or low enthusiasm, to be the owner of the property where they are located or to be in the public sector, in cooperation with the local government in order to provide solutions. Today's bill may appear good in theory, but it continues the past, because by transitional provision it talks about contracts that have been signed. And I would remind you that four years ago, in November 2015, Mr. Tsironis then as Deputy Minister, brought provisions and extended his geothermality contracts to PPC - Renewables for five years. I don't know if PPC did anything - Renewable. I guess not. Now they will integrate to PPC, increase the price of the failure of the lignite fields. Let's not get into that logic. It's a lot of issues. So I think it should be a different solution to geothermality. Of course, the form of the legal person governed by public law does not add anything. On the contrary, bureaucraticly, it gives another dimension, because it is parallel to the directorates of the Ministry. At the same time, the Ministry of the Environment, which has addresses for the mines, has the same competence. In fact - unprecedented for my own thought - I can see that there is a special research account at the IGM, while we have a School of Mineralists at the Polytechnologists for many years, we have recently a good school in Crete Mineral Pluto and parallel environmental engineering activities. What will an account add? Is it no longer the management of money as a research account and we want to have a source of different income? These must be answered. Of course - and so as not to become tiring - I want to close the matter of the Building Auditor's Register. The Building Auditors Register has had a good course, but today we are seeing something different. We see under Article 61 of the draft law that competences are being changed, and TEI engineers have not actually been granted professional rights. Let me remind you that the Council of State has made a statement several times at the request of the representative sector that there is a failure to act by the State and that professional rights have not been established. Something is coming here that weakens not only professional rights but also the strength of the TEI representative for the reason, Mr President, that they are now entitled to be building auditors, not only the registered members of the EUTEM, that is, the representative trade union organisation that has always covered them with a single voice and with unity of claim. He's saying something else. the words ‘or registered in the TEI's technical name book or equivalent register’ shall be inserted. So what do we do? We're breaking up, having a lot of people so they can't fully claim. The TE's register now. I tried to locate the legal basis on which it was created or the legal basis or whether it gave professional rights. I can't answer that. I didn't find anything that would convince me of the proper layout or the necessity of the layout. I think, Minister, that this opens the door to Halos for further impairment of the professional rights of TEI engineers. Since the TEI has engineers, let the TEI engineers have their own body, so that they can claim their own professional rights, which the state has not been able to determine for many years. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Carras. Mr Kouzilos has the floor from the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. I will stand in part III "Individual separation of natural gas distribution networks", and I will start by saying that it was fair and the Memorandum of Understanding of SYRIZA, the Left. What do we see? The break-up and sale of the DEPA begins. That's very simple. All that you, as opposition, said you would never do, and you will fight for it not to happen. And of course who do they belong to? Where have their stock package been? I'm at the T.I.E.L.D. In the bad TIADED, which is now a tool for developing and exploiting public property, while in its report the World Energy Agency says that every year we will have an increase in demand for natural gas by 1.6% by 2023, and we will not control natural gas. It won't really be ours. What can we now say about the Athens Exchange, which starts with the creation and development of a wholesale price in natural gas? All this makes it possible to balance the national transport system, but in fact the way you have done it, what will be done will be not to run the task of the Ministry of Energy. We are starting now and we say that we have the third tank of Rethyssa, which was launched by the Prime Minister and at the opening in November 2018: "The upgrading of Rethyssas can cover one third of the needs of imports of Balkan, Hungarian and Slovenia countries." In September 2018, the cooperation agreement for the Alexandroupolis terminal between the DEPA and the ‘Gastrade’ was signed and was signed as follows. The Alexandroupolis project will also enable potential buyers of Balkan countries to diversify the sources of supply a little. In other words, the upgrading of the Rethyssus until now had some sources of supply. We took from the bad American people's killers, as you were saying, natural gas. Now for Alexandroupolis you say differentiation of sources of supply. So that's where we're going to the part of America. In fact, everything will be done on the basis of what America wants, what the American market for natural gas wants. In your statements after December 2017 with the loan sharks now become institutions for you, you spoke about deinvesting the PPC by the Thessaloniki and Attica subsidiaries and you sold its shares after strong pressure. Strong pressures on a national sovereign state, so that we can understand? Any pressures and accepting a state, when it is strong and has national independence, are not others going to say? But certainly nothing is random. We have the CITIBANK report in 2010, which clearly said that the Persian countries after 2030 from exporting countries will become oil-importing countries. This is how we see what has come to Greece, which is that certain people will control the natural gas market. And there are statements from the US side and the IGC as well as from the President, the American Energy Minister, who has asked for a close relationship on energy issues. And with all this now we will not control the gas at all, we will not control the sources at all, and we have a pipeline called East Med that we can be dominant, for which the IPCC has answered in a document in my question that not only confirms the economic competitiveness of the project, but adds a body of quality, geopolitical advantages to the rest. And we won't control the DEPA. You're the one who sells the DEPA. You start selling DEPA and you call this a sovereign state. We will continue to fight for national sovereignty, we will continue to fight for what is called national dignity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr. Kouzilo. Mr. Tassos of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. The SYRIZA Government as a - a statement by the US Ministry of Foreign Affairs - a committed partner in promoting US interests both inside and outside Greece, that is, as the signifier of capitalism and imperialism in our region, could not be the first priority for the assignment of our country's mineral and energy wealth to the major business groups in the sector. That's why there's a fight in our area. The main tool for this is the IGM, which, by renamed to LAGM, turns it from research institute to the service of the Greek people, as it should be in a small and flexible supervisory advisory body, which assumes a regulatory, supervisory and control role in the service, of course, of the business groups in the industry. In this way, the EAGF will further operate in enterprises active in the exploitation of mineral wealth and manage funds, data and workers with flexible forms of work, fixed-term contracts, etc. Of course SYRIZA does not originalize in serving the interests of capital, it simply does it better than all the previous ones, since, as the US Ambassador said in Greece, Mr. Piat, the Greek American relations are at best today than ever before. Thus, from the thousands of three hundred workers working at the IGM during his full development, from 1982 to 1988, he had four hundred ninety on the New Democracy - PASOK coup d'état, and then the hybrid burial of EKDA was built. Today, of course, the SYRIZA Government is finishing it, turning it into an EAGM with fewer than a hundred sixty employees and with a provision of two hundred twenty - organic positions, when the previous board of EGMM, in 2015-2016, after a study, had concluded that they needed five hundred thirty organic positions and direct recruitment of thirty - one employees. What other tools are used to achieve the target of small and flexible EMEA in the service of business groups? Transfer the mobile and immovable property of IGM, the remarkable heavy construction equipment and its highly modern laboratory equipment with a value of more than 40m euros, to the Ministry of Finance, through the unclear clearance process. The absorption of the EUR 20 million ESRB will be done by entrusting work to third parties and transferring work with outsourcing to service offices. The new body is run by a legal stunt, both as far as its staff are concerned, for an unknown period of time, without rules of operation and will ego the Director-General, as well as the execution of the NRP projects, which, due to the operational difficulties of the EPC, are frozen. You are abolishing labour rights, which the workers of the EGF have until now guaranteed through collective labour agreements and the Staff Regulations. You legalise the theft of EUR 3.5 million in retrospectively, resulting both from the final decisions of Greek justice and from the legislative lifting of the illegal application of the single wage. You change the EGMM institutional framework, because that is what capitalist growth and the private interests that you and all urban parties are serving. And according to your usual practice you do, definite the concept of the public interest, as you have defected the concept of the Left, after transforming the EGM from a legal person to a legal person governed by public law, you claim that you do it for the public interest, and in practice you do it for the very opposite. I will say a few words about geothermality, wind parks and, in general, renewable energy sources. We are in favour of using every form of energy in order to meet the people's needs and not the profitability of business groups. Our criteria are the cost to the people, the use of domestic sources of energy by society, the safety of residents and workers in the energy sector and, of course, the protection of the environment. Now as far as geothermality is concerned, in addition to the general liberalisation of geothermality in large capital, there is also a question of making use of a quantity of thermal water available, beyond what is stated in practice in an emergency, as the Municipality of Ikaria has pointed out, with a view, of course, to being able to operate with more thermal water than it is currently using. Because, if this is not the case, the issues and ownership of the thermal sources and the ownership of these sources are raised, as is the case with Ikaria. That is why a similar amendment has been tabled. Now in relation to wind farms we cannot accept, for example, the multinational "IBERDROLA ROKAS" to install at first stage three hundred and fifty three giant wind turbines of 706 MW in Lemnos, Lesvos and Chios, and the "Mytilene" hundred ten wind turbines of 330 MW in Ikaria, while the energy needs of the island are 10MW. The people cannot pay EUR 130 per MWh, while the cost is EUR 45 from lignite production. There can be no installation of wind turbines, each weighing two hundred to thirty to three hundred tons, with a hundred to eighty feet high and eighty to ninety meters in diameter of cursor, for which a base of sixteen meters will be needed for sixteen meters over three, or seventy cubic meters of concrete and an surrounding platform of two acres. In other words, taking into account that the distance between each pillar must be two hundred and eighty-five meters, it is understood that the twenty-eight parks of this multinational company will occupy many tens of thousands of acres. In addition, thousands of other acres must be added, taken from the roads to be opened for each wind turbines. There will be huge damage, i.e. irreparable, which will completely dismantle the landscape. Conclusion. All about the profitability of capital. That is why you will find us with the people, their workers and their needs all the time to meet you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. Mr Tsironis has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for five minutes, and immediately after Mr Papadopoulos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. I want from this Step, to welcome the expedition of court investigation into the tragedy in Matti, because I am convinced that every responsible person wants timely and quickly to clear up the responsibilities that are due to him. We're all devastated for this tragedy. Unfortunately, however, I see that the attitude of counterpopulation only gives rise to disobedience. And I'm explaining. The responsible people are looking for our responsibilities. Greece, however, was not destroyed by the responsible people. It was destroyed by irresponsibles, who, when their name is heard, threaten the judges and speak of constructions. Responsibility for me is a title of honor and does not necessarily mean guilt. I personally declare myself very proud of myself to be the party of the responsible people and not the party of the irresponsible. Unfortunately, you do not show that you are interested in the outcome of the trial. You don't show any interest in responsibilities being attributed. You don't seem to be interested in ever becoming evil again, which is the greatest. You've already done your own trials on television. You have already made your own sentences with the party "pattoka". I would remind you, therefore, that I was the first Minister to dare to record what property we have within the forests legally or illegally. Be registered, be locked, know that's it, see how we deal with it. On the contrary, for decades these settlements have disappeared. You had the people hostages and you pretended you didn't see. You pretended there were no houses between the trees. Of course now you're moving the finger. For us, the Greens, it is the prevention that saves lives and not the management of the disaster. A characteristic example of the indifference to the problems was yesterday's debate on this bill. So what was the first issue yesterday? Venezuelan plane. I guess I should be beaten up to take it down, so we don't get to lift up the months of antipopulation. What about the plane? But here, I repeat, that the major issue, the major front page yesterday, had to be geothermality. In Greece, geothermality, an unexploited gold mine, is finally institutionalized, an independent and completely safe energy. Why? Because it only uses clean, hot water, nothing else, that nature offers simple. I admit there was an accident in Milos in the 1980s. It did not happen during the geothermal operation. It was during the operation of an experimental drilling. It was drilling wrong and not geothermality. Let's get this straight. Geothermality itself has no danger once and it starts and works. Multiple danger has a simple oil tank. Geothermality is not at risk, and yet it was discredited. So today we are talking about a new era in the country's energy map, and this news has not become a headline, and we are talking about an energy map, where at last the citizen, the simple farmer, will be able to exploit the low enthusiasm that is under his home without huge bureaucratic processes. The Greens welcome this chapter. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] A second important issue which is clear and must be welcomed is that, at last, slate oil and gas are not negotiable, it is not important, it cannot be exploited, because where slate gas and oil were exploited, because it is being done by a destructive method necessarily, with the fracking, hydraulic cracking to say it in Greek - it is causing appalling catastrophes. What is this method for fellow citizens and fellow citizens to understand? Water mixed with chemicals is ejected to great depths to push oil or gas upwards. Seismic vibrations, great descents, but also huge groundwater destruction, are few of the results of this process, which if you enter and read it is nightmareous. We therefore welcome, Minister, the exception, but with an amendment we have tabled to you, we ask that it be not just gas excluded from exploitation and oil, but that the method of plumbing itself should be banned. We have also tabled a parliamentary amendment to protect NATURA from mining. Already under Article 9, Law 3937/2011 is prohibited within the NATURA areas, high nuisance activities are more or less, since the oil activities are equally nourishing and dangerously proven. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end in a few seconds, Mr President. I know that the two amendments were not accepted because the services requested further legal investigation. We are also welcome to investigate, but we are appealing. Our only nature, biodiversity, our only products, thyme, honey, oregano, tourism is the incalculable capital we must protect. It is not possible for today, during the days of the SYRIZA Government, to leave this chapter unprotected. Quickly look at the amendments we have tabled. I think we'll have our ears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, too. Mr. Nikolaos Papadopoulos from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very important draft law by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, which regulates important sectors of the national economy. The bill refers to the resolution of the chronic problems and diseases of the IGM by replacing it with a new public body, the Hellenic Authority for Geological and Mining Research. Secondly, to shield our policy towards arbitrary construction by introducing planning and town planning provisions. Thirdly, the delimitation and regulation of the process of ownership separation of IPDP and individual issues that cause malfunctions in the energy sector. Fourthly, the establishment at last of a clear and comprehensive institutional framework, which concerns the research, exploitation and management of the country's geothermal potential, an integrated institutional framework, which, almost half a century after the first surveys initiated by PPC in 1973, has been based on the dynamic beginning of the systematic exploitation of geothermal resources for the production of thermal and electrical power in the 1980s and sixteen years after the adoption of Law 3175/2003 on the use of geothermal potential in our country, is coming to modernise the existing legislative framework, to simplify and simplify the procedures for issuing research and exploitation permits on local geothermal fields, to establish strict and transparent rules on the reverse of customer or local practices in previous years, so that local societies can make use of this form of alternative environmental and low-cost energy. With all this in mind, to finally benefit the national economy and society from the use of the rich geothermal potential with which it is favourable at world level, and even to go beyond the European average, which is 28% of the geothermality in covering either electricity production or heating. This objective is absolutely feasible, when in countries in the European north such as the Netherlands, drilling for the use of a geothermal field reaches two thousand or more meters, while in our country a few dozen meters are enough. Furthermore, research and technological developments and potential in this sector make the exploitation of the geothermal potential an extremely advantageous - both in terms of reduced costs and of the reduced environmental burden - a source of energy. There are positive effects on economic development at local and national level, the creation of new jobs and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, the safeguarding of cheap and clean energy in dwellings, public buildings, villages and towns with remote heating, agricultural production, etc. In the primary sector, the use of geothermals favours a gradual rehabilitation of environmentally-friendly fossil fuels, and can contribute to the drastic reduction of production costs, therefore also to the enhancement of agricultural income, as it is estimated that it has very low production costs. It has constant availability, does not require storage, can be produced twenty-four hours a day, three hundred and sixty-five days a year and after its use is exploited at reduced temperatures. It's reintroduced to the earth to reheated. It goes without saying the impetus that can be given, thus in the areas of primary production and, in particular, advantages such as thermal crops, aquaculture, heat treatment of agricultural products, heating of installations, stable installations, winemaking, drying of fruit, vegetables, etc. A special upgrade, according to ELGO studies, exists almost everywhere throughout the country. At this point let me make a comment - a proposal - on Article 72(3), which refers to positive care to ensure a percentage of the price increase in terms of damaged photovoltaic stations. However, we also consider it necessary to provide for an additional category of 100KW below, which concerns small agricultural photovoltaics. That is what we are proposing to diversify, from the five hundred and here I believe, Mr Minister, a funding for these rural small environments, to solve the issue of the land of high productivity, to be able to set up such a photovoltaic in a large area of some 1% of its area, and a price which is close to 10% of the domestic sales price that PPC offers today, so that farmers can be able to sit in their own villages and have an extra income so that they can be in their own place. I think this is a good proposal and we would like your help, Mr Minister, at least for these small agricultural photovoltaics. I return to the issue of geothermality, saying that it is positive to increase the minimum temperature, to define a geothermal field, because there are many waters in rural areas with temperatures above 25 degrees. To sum up, we believe that the proposed provisions enable the valued but fewer examples of the use of geothermals in agricultural production to be rapidly multiplied. Ladies and gentlemen, the road to the recovery of the primary sector, the recovery of the economy and society is increasingly opening up with steps designed, stable and, above all, decisive. I invite you to pass this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u155	The Minister has the floor for presenting some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u156	Let me announce the legislative improvements and stand a little on the amendment tabled for PPC. I'll start with PPC. As the amendment says, the competition is being reopened. It leaves a very short period of time - for both the old ones who participated in the previous and potential new investors - a short deadline of seven days. Applicants may submit tenders for either or both units. The evaluation of tenders will be carried out through an assessment of an international independent valuer, a fairness opinion. The independent valuator may express an opinion, i.e. that PPC should hire him and submit a memorandum. But binding is the fairness opinion by the international independent valuer for the price offered. The contract for the sale of shares of each new company will be ratified by the House. The other provisions of the first invitation to tender shall apply mutatis mutandis. In both labour - wages because there is the well-known issue with the twelve and fourteen wages, it is guaranteed that in the deported units, the annual pay paid by the workers will remain exactly as they are. It will simply be distributed differently. Finally, for the quantity of NOMs, the provision of the previous law, which says that once the relevant share-sharing contracts have been completed, the new companies will be automatically abolished. In addition, we have an arrangement for transporting installation and operation of power plants in Crete. It's about the transitional period. It provides for how, of course, the interconnection between Crete and the Peloponnese - in January 2020 - will be this period of emergency for the medium term. So PPC can move units or other forms of energy production for this transitional period through some summary procedures. I'm going to the legal improvements now. First of all, after the debate, we will withdraw the provisions on RAE and come back to a next bill. I am referring to civil liability, recruitment, etc. Secondly, the request made in the public debate, in the debate the other day, that the price of PV projects should be determined not on the basis of 'N', but on the basis of 'N-1, -2, -3', the previous three - with the exception of the latter - because I do not have time to make calculations. Thirdly, the small photovoltaics of the professional farmers are included, precisely on the same terms as the energy communities, that is to say, up to 500 KW power, and with 10% subsidy, a price above that specified in the tenders, as determined, precisely with the same prerogatives as the energy communities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u157	And a funding, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u158	We will see the funding at another time. As we draw up an NSRF for the energy communities, Mr Papadopoulos, we will also make a NSRF for farmers. For ‘ARIADN’, the part of a project of common interest is deleted. But there are still thirty recruitments. It is, however, clear that it will be until the project is completed. So the thirty recruitments will take place, but they have a time horizon for the construction of the project. We insist that these workers be recruited for a simple reason that it is a transitional provision because the AACC tender has been opened. So instead of leaving and waiting - it won't work - it's transitional until the ADP competition is completed. They're not new recruitments, they're not out of CAP but they're a transitional situation. The EPC, the new body, cannot function without the workers already employed and planned. That article is correct, Mr Screka, for the oil trades. There is one ambiguity there, so this is correcting, that is, withdrawing. That's the legal stuff. There are also ten others, which are more expressive and less substantial. I now go to the Members' amendments. With regard to the amendment of a general number 2011 tabled by Members of the SYRIZA, the proposed arrangement covers a gap in the New Building Regulation, so as to allow construction in public spaces under strict conditions and in legally existing settlements without an approved plan. The text is reprinted to be accurate and I read it, because as it came, it had some inaccuracies. It is therefore accepted that the title of the article is changed to: ‘Amendment to Article 20 of Law 4067/2012 (A'67)’ and, secondly, the text of the article changes as follows: ‘After paragraph 5 of Article 20 of Law 4067/2012, paragraph 6 is added as follows: ‘The provisions of this Article also apply to legitimately existing settlements, without an approved tariff plan’. The improvement to the register, the improvements to be made where mistakes have been made and the others, which is essential. And as regards the last one that has been tabled, while I am positive, I think we will bring it to another legislative work, because it wants a process with the appropriate ministries. As for what Mr Chironis said, we are in agreement. We want a process as a ministry, too. They're legitimate. The law, however, is clear. We are taking a big step today, banning the fracking in Greece, which was a commitment we had made some time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Evangelos Apostleu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot avoid the placement of Mr Manatis, Mr KINAL, for the tragedy in Matti. Why so much bis on a subject with which we all hurt, with which we all are all in pain? We also don't forget. But why do they forget that they were the ones who ruled the country when this urban and spatial bazaar was created in Attica, when without any planning they decided to remove the Forest Service from forest fires? It is, ladies and gentlemen, a global originality, that the manager of a natural ecosystem is absent when it is destroyed. We are trying not only to cure the wounds but also to address all these distortions. Citizens can understand, who can lead the country into the memorial reality, and who is the only one who does it is to be destroyed. Ladies and gentlemen, my intervention in the bill will have a direct or indirect relationship with regulations relating to rural areas. And I'm starting with the IGM. When we received it in 2015, it was on the brink of dissolution. We kept it alive, solving too many problems. What do we want today? Let's update it. I would like to address their colleagues in geotechnics, and to tell them that at a time when the phenomena of landslides, floods and generally extreme phenomena are causing many problems, their degradation would be suicidal. And I would like, by the way, to thank them, in particular, for the immediate response to the floods of Chalkida with their presence. I would therefore like to make it clear to them that this rename to a Greek Geological and Mining Research Authority does not change their duties - on the contrary, it broadens them - as also that there is no problem with their employment. And a moment ago the Minister confirmed that once again. And I come to the point of geothermality. The Greek territory, ladies and gentlemen, finds geothermal fields. We found no serious possibility of exploiting them. We have tried - and we have succeeded - to have valuable units, especially in rural areas, but also other units that operate using geothermality as a basic source of energy. Let me refer to the characteristic case of 'Selecta' a flowering company in Chrysopolis Kavala - the Prime Minister also visited it - which we incorporated into the rural programmes of 2017. It produces ornamental plants in a sixty acre greenhouse, making use of the region's geothermal field. The product it produces is 95% exported, and the company employs 30 employees permanently. The Ministry of Rural Development was aware of the possibilities that these enterprises have, and that is why we moved to find a way to join the development law and to strengthen investment proposals of over 500 thousand euros. In cooperation with the Ministry of Economy and Development we have submitted to the European Commission a file on the greenhouse-type plants which operate renewable energy systems such as geothermality. After his approval, Minister, the European Commission must also make the necessary corrections to the national institutional framework to cover all these cases. I now come to the agricultural photovoltaics. We have enabled the rural area to cover a large part of its energy needs with mild forms of energy. Farmers are financed from the Rural Development Programme through the improvement plans both autonomously and with net metering. And it was, indeed, very positive what I heard a moment ago by the Minister, who accepted the request for accession and the small farmers who want to install photovoltaic arcs, it is enough, of course, to realise that all this is done easily, if it goes through collaborative schemes, because if they follow co-operation, there are multiple benefits and possibilities in all fields for farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, too. Mr. Cassidy from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u162	I begin with the essence of today's bill, which is, of course, once again, the sale of the wealthy sources of Greece. I am referring to the DEPA, to the Public Gas Company. It is a mockery, of course, and a tragic irony to talk about a public gas company, because it is not public business. It belongs to 65% of the ICTD and now with this bill 50% plus 1, i.e. the majority of shares, will go to private and in particular to foreign hands, because the private investor will be a foreign investor. The property of Greece leaves, the only economic power left in Greece, which is, of course, natural gas. Natural gas can be our financial salvation. On the substance, however, with the vote of the SYRIZA Government, it passes into foreign hands. And this debate is taking place at the time of the discovery of a new gas overcapacitation in Greek Cyprus. I am talking about the glaucus look, which can reach all 230 billion cubic metres. It is equal to the "Afrodite". If we look at the map, there's a natural continuity in the gaze. We start from the "Leviathan" super-conscious at the EEZ of Israel, we pass to the "Zor" look of Egypt that was discovered relatively recently with 800 billion cubic meters of natural gas, after the deposits of the Cypriot EEZ, the "Afroditis" look and the "Glaukos" look. Physical continuity of these are the energy deposits in the Herodotus basin in the Greek exclusive economic zone. In the area south-east and south of Crete, according to the most valid universities, we may have in the south-eastern part, i.e. south of the complex of Maxesi, Kastelorizos, we may have 2 trillions of cubic metres of natural gas and in the south of Crete we may have one and a half trillion cubic metres of natural gas. We're talking about the property of Greece, which you're betraying. If we had once betrayal in the case of Macedonia where you granted a name and history, here you assign national sovereignty and national property, not accepting the proposal of the Golden Dawn for the proclamation of the Greek exclusive economic zone. This can be done by the Greek Parliament in one day, to vote for the declaration of the Greek EEZ and then start drawing our energy deposits, drawing natural gas, as Cyprus does, as Israel and Egypt does. And so that Tsipras does not speak of trilogues with Anastasiades and Netanyahu in the presence of the Americans, when Greece is the only state in the region, which dares not under Turkey's threat to declare an exclusive economic zone. Of course I understand now - and I have a complaint to make about an event that happened here in Parliament - because you had put the guard of the House a few days ago outside the Senate Hall. I went to the Senate Hall for a meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence and ten people were there and they say: "Please, you can't pass. This committee has been transferred to Chamber 223, and I say 'all right, guys, and what happened? Is there a coup in it and is the entire guard around here?' And then I saw on the news what was going on. The NATO committee met in the Senate. The Turk had come and said that if Greece starts to pump natural gas, they will make us a war. And the MPs of SYRIZA and of the New Democracy sat down and listened to the Turkish challenges within the Greek Parliament, and had put ten people in the garrison, don't go through any way by a member of the Golden Dawn to place them in a committee from which you have been blocked from there illegally and unconstitutionally. You're going to give a reason for this blockade, too. In today's bill, of course, there is also an amendment to the arbitrary legislation. This is a photographic case of the drama, of the national tragedy experienced by the entire Greek people in Matti. You think that with such actions you will delete your crimes. You think that with such actions and the lies you're telling on the intertwined media, you'll get away with the prison. For the crimes that took place in Matty, Duru and Tsipras and Toska have to go to prison. And we watched Tosca lie. The people who were burning, jumping into the sea to escape and drown and set up a circus in the channels with Tsipras and told him he sent the Navy ferry. At the same time, the world was drowning and there was no reaction at all. And this circus that led to death in a hundred dead people, you'll pay for it. And I say again: The Eye is going to prison and Durus and Tsipras and Toskas and all those responsible for this national tragedy. Because we were there the first moment that this tragedy broke out, we saw that, in fact, there was neither the police nor the fire brigade nor the port. We're talking about a state of mess. We're talking about a state in absolute disintegration. But I want to be fair. We must share responsibility with everyone. We say the Syrians must be imprisoned for the tragedy in Eye, for the responsibilities and the dead in Mandra...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u163	Come on, let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u164	I shall finish with the time given to me by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u165	A lot more to be expected of court rulings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u166	The previous speakers also had two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u167	Be careful when talking to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u168	And if you don't eat my time, I'll finish right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u169	Finish now!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u170	These orders to SYRIZA, not to me. I respect the Rules of Procedure, and do not accept such a style. I do not accept orders of this kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u171	Get off the Step, now I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u172	That's what I'm not taking. SYRIZA and your branch, your party...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u173	You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u174	To the plural to speak no to the Native.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u175	In the plural. You're done, Mr. Cassidy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u176	You will speak to me as a member of the National Representation, because this is where the people have put me in their vote, and I demand respect in every case and I do not accept orders from anyone that has been symmetrical. So I conclude with a complaint, because you see the style of the President-in-Office and see how the real fascists treat citizens, because the real fascists in that country are the government of SYRIZA. And the Minister of Citizen Protection comes out and says that "we arrest them because they know what they will do in the future". In Macedonia, he says, they know what they're going to do in the future, and that's why we arrest them. They are psychic, that is, the SYRIZA ministers and they see what the other one has in his mind and what he will do in the future!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u177	Well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u178	That's fascism! That fascism we fight your ethnicity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u179	Come on, take the champagne cross off now! Now, Mrs Karakosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u180	But yesterday, Mr President, you have left twenty-eight minutes for the SYRIZA rapporteur to speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u181	It is true that when fascists talk about fascism, when killers come to accuse people who have not actually been tried, you don't know if you should either talk to them, because fascists you put them around the corner, and we all have to fight them together, because we know what their practice is and what their actions are to date. However, it is tragic that the rest, such as Mr Maniotis, who has been Minister for years in the government for the hundreds who have really been lost in very bad conditions, should be crying out for too many years when their governments have not been able to plan in that country. It is really a disgrace to dismiss their responsibilities and not to regret what they have not done to date. As is also a disgrace to raise a matter that is not inconceivable and where, as previous speakers have said, justice must be attributed - and it is, of course, independent and we do not even want to influence it - and while it has not been tried, it simply goes to the justice side, to the eye, to some people until yesterday to justify the fact that it did not go to the second degree, that is to say, that the decision on this child-seeker Nikos Georgiadis was not finalised, and now to be cut for one thing that has not even been passed through justice, but is simply sent. This government, well or badly, step by step, proves to Greeks and Greek women that it is making sure to correct fundamental issues and one of them is today's bill. That is why the rapporteurs of the Opposition, the Greater and the Elasson talk about anything other than the bill. Because it really is our principle that this country should be as much as possible detached from its energy dependence. And how's that gonna happen? It will be done by exploiting most of the energy sources it may have. One of these is scientifically proven to be the use of geothermal potential. We have, to date, some thirty regions which have emerged. Scientists talk a lot more. And here comes a bill on the correct and fair way of exploiting these sources, which recognizes the value - and has been mentioned by previous speakers - of the agricultural sector at all levels, highlights the tourism sector, and we are even talking about the healthier sources that precede any other energy farms - and it is very important - that determines and distributes to various categories - smaller and larger - those fields, in the smaller areas it also places and includes local authorities. And here's what I heard. I have heard it called 'you dream of a transaction company with local government'. That's what KINAL's rapporteur said. So in their minds whatever you do in order to give authority to local government, they consider it a transaction. Because it seems that this is what they have done to date. So he tells you there can't be others who think differently and go in that direction. I'm going too fast because time doesn't take me. As far as the PPA is concerned, the New Democracy rapporteur prescribes that the big investor will not come, why? Because the public keeps 51%. It is clear here that we do not want anything in public. And in fact this government is fighting in the difficult economic conditions brought to our country by previous governments in relation to lenders and being able to keep rates and manage energy sources in our country is very important. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm not going to employ anything but little. It is also the fact that we are highlighting and strengthening the scientific body and we are building a public authority on the HEME. Others have mentioned this, and I shall not go into the urban changes. But I would like to stress something that has not been stressed so far and is important. It is an extremely important two provisions, to which I should like to refer. From 1-1-2021 all new buildings must be zero energy consumption and this obligation for public buildings starts from 1-1-2019. It's excellent. We must achieve this. This is why the environment and the safety of research and the exploitation of hydrocarbons are being established, which have an advisory role in environmental protection in the regions carrying out their respective activities. We are completing a step-by-step, truly, electronic control systems in all areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too. Mr Saridis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Union of Centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that there are many beautiful parts of the world, places that I have not had the opportunity to visit and to see, but that does not prevent me from being stubborn in believing that we live in the most beautiful country in the world. And this country has been characterized by too many - and they have rightly described it - as a blessed one. And I say this in order to convey to the Chamber what they found with relief from very early this morning, thousands of our fellow citizens throughout the country when they grieved to understand what has been going on today. Fortunately, they said with relief, it will have a good time today, thank God. Do you know why our fellow citizens have said that? Because they won't have to light up heating, they won't have to burn oil, they won't have to burn gas and - much worse - they won't have to burn wood in some parts of our country. Have you wondered, ladies and gentlemen, how many of these fellow citizens our first thoughts can be when they wake up in the morning in the cold winter months of the winter in Greece, is whether they will have sunshine because they have no money for oil, why do they have no money to light up the water heater, even though they have to warm up their family and take a bath? So for them, today's legislation comes, for them we are legislating today, for them we are talking about, for them we are talking about. With the power they gave all of us in here, we are having this particular debate about these people. Perhaps, then, when we talk about the word 'geotherity', we should talk to those people who, while counting the coins of the day, see how they will spend the day and get ready to leave the house, are shaking to think that it may get worse tomorrow. So what do we have to tell these people? How can we explain to them the issues that this bill is dealing with today? We've been talking about geothermality and we've been talking about geothermality to them and we've been talking about it for decades in this country. We are talking about the suitability of the geological conditions that offer rich geothermal potential in the country, about the geothermal fields that have been identified for thirty years in the various regions of the country - which is now officially one of the most favoured countries in the world, as the explanatory memorandum itself states - and we are talking about the verified report on the potential use of geothermals, about direct uses with mild environmental imprints on heating, cooling schools, hospitals, desalination of water, the heating of fish farms, thermo-growth, drying of agricultural products and many more. They're familiar with all of them. So we have been discussing and analyzing for many years, and I would say that this has always been a theory about the need to ensure the country's energy autonomy. Who disagrees on this, the country's energy autonomy? We've all already agreed. There is unanimity in this direction by everyone. Whoever you ask about the country's autonomy will tell you. This target is one that unites us. This is our national objective, energy autonomy, regardless of and beyond ideologies, how much more than ideological ideologies. I would also like to remind people who may have forgotten about this at this point, the fact that the Greeks know very well and understand exactly what exactly energy diplomacy means. Energy diplomacy to remind you that our airmen, when flying over the Aegean Sea, are there, above the Aegean Sea, these waters which are melting by the Turks. Energy diplomacy is doing. We therefore wish, as the Central Association, to fill the gap immediately in order to start our gradual decommissioning - independence from fossil fuels, but also to obtain the benefits of geothermality, such as growth, sustainable and economic, at local and national level, the creation of new jobs, the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, the increase in agricultural products. We disagree with this bill - and I will focus by name, because it is also a matter of time - on Article 5, because you grant the right to administer and exploit the fields from thirty plus twenty, a total of fifty years. We disagree with Article 19, which has been set up by the Committees for the Management of Geothermal Powers in decentralised administrations. There is a process that will certainly be gigantic, in fact it will be an attempt to giganticize the state and because there is now no design, we are afraid of the worst, so we disagree with this article. We also disagree with the description of the total of Articles 25 to 50, where there we have the Hellenic Authority of Geological and Mining Research. At this principle we start with two hundred twenty organic jobs, and there is no provision, there is no limit to recruitment of seasonal and temporary staff. The years that have passed, the years in which the government has worked on this bill, which brings us today, shortly before the end of its four-year term, do not justify these ambiguities and make us a wicked eye. In fact, we are convinced that something is wrong and, in any case, not that we are plundering, but that we may be able to create new jobs in the SYRIZA Government and let others find them. Recapitulating everything that has been heard for a millennial time today, it is neither unknown nor useful, as they do not answer the real question. The question is: When will the Greek finally enjoy all these richly rich goods that this blessed place, which I had returned to, as I told you at the beginning? When will all this be enjoyed by Greeks? When all the good things we have and where no one in our country disputes that they exist? They're gonna get where? To the ordinary citizen. After how many years will all these good things get to the ordinary citizen? When? Many people say 'never'. I'm a little more optimistic. They're gonna be a long time, but too long. This simple question I can assure you that it concerns all those out there, all those who wake up in the morning and tremble, as I said before, with the change of weather. On behalf of these people I feel that I am speaking here today, in this Chamber, as I hope I represent them with my words. If, therefore, such a bill in plenary dealing with energy ever comes and has something serious to answer that question, the Central Association will vote in favour of both hands. But today's bill does not give answers to the questions we are concerned with, and that is why the position of the Centro Association will be at the'residents' in principle. We agree with all these beautiful, intelligent, pioneering things that have been heard here on the part of the government, as well as with most of what is written in the bill. But we don't forget, on the other hand, that all these beautiful things aren't enough, that's not enough. They do not offer anything at all to the average Greek citizen. Two comments on today's amendments. The Ministerial Amendment under number 2026 and a special number 221, in the first part of which arrangements are made for the reopening of the competitive process for the completion of PPC's famous "investment" as well as the previous competition under Article 3 of Law 4533, has been declared barren and, in the second part of which it is attempting to regulate the transfer, installation and operation of power plants in Crete, we are opposed and will vote against it. As regards the Members of Parliament who have been accepted, we will vote on this amendment which regulates the agenda. But as regards the second amendment - as an engineer I shall speak - with the roofs, do you think that is how problems are solved? So, with an amendment, with a legislative provision? This is how the problems of the few are solved and, ladies and gentlemen, the problems of many are increasing. Why don't you expect us to get inside the plan first? Why don't we look at how legal procedures go faster, put an area in the centre and look at taking advantage of any delays in this by legislating during the period of these delays, without being active, creating distortions in the letter of the law and destroying the spirit of the law? As regards, because it has been heard very strongly in today's debate, on the matter of Eyes, I will tell you something on the part of the Central Association. Responsibilities exist. They're big. They will have to be sought and they will have to be rendered. Political responsibilities exist. Political responsibilities existed both from the New Democracy and from the Movement of Change, the old PASOK and the current government of SYRIZA. That's the truth. Don't hide it. Don't worries in here, just addressing each one of you at his own audience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u184	So do we. Mr Kegeroglu from the Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. As we have already said, we are not in agreement with the bill and, of course, we are not in any way in agreement with this amendment, which adds units to Crete, from which it is intended to remove units. Changes planning due to failure of government policy. I should like to say that the breakdown of the DEPA for us is unnecessarily unnecessarily, but of course it is also irrational and will lead to a dead end. It can only be sold out by the DEPA of Trade and, of course, without clarifying the issues that have to do with the Petsiti of Maximos and the 120 million Laurentiadis. However, I would remind many people who are forgetting that a development plan has been launched since 2010 for the use of our country's deposits, for the recovery of hydrocarbons. The second axis of this design was our country, of course, to be an energy hub, but also to ensure national interests, and this was to do with cooperation with other countries, with Israel, with Cyprus, with Cyprus, with the whole of the European Union, with the use of European funds for the creation of the pipeline from Israel - Cyprus - Greece - Europe through Crete, in order to be financed by European funds and the so-called great interconnection from Crete to Attica. We have, therefore, given examples of writing and the creation and organisation of the hydrocarbon utilization body and the investigations carried out, the so-called 'Semitism' and the tenders that were launched, which are, of course, an unprecedented luck, because the tender opened in November 2014 and accepted tenders until March fell in the first disastrous half of Greece's governance by SYRIZA, which sought every effort, which every investor would want to participate in. The second was that Lafazanis, Skourletis, Alexopoulos, the Secretary-General, opposed the use of hydrocarbons and cancelled competitions. They didn't go through the competitions that were ready, but they hadn't had time to get out of the air. So today, our country is losing every year half a billion euros from the use of hydrocarbons. The Generation Solidarity Fund established since 2011 could today have at its disposal around EUR 3 billion in order to finance pensions as is foreseen by young scientists, as well as regional development with 20% provided for in the relevant law. These are, therefore, issues that are not of interest to the government and the Ministry, which only deals with how communication will be fooled. Look, for the failure to promote the large interconnection, they are still looking for Mr Stathakis. And the letter Mr. Maniotis revealed, that's what he says in it. There are questions from Cyprus, questions from the European Commissioner, questions from everyone because the planning is changing. And of course, there is an attempt to convince us that IPTO is public. Only 25% have been given to the Chinese, but they fail to tell us that by later regulation the majority package was actually allocated to the Chinese, namely majority rights. We have the so-called'small interconnection', which has actually gone back two years. This creates an energy gap or a potential energy gap. This, therefore, not only does not allow the government to remove the units, as envisaged by the Lino-periphery and the other points, but the Minister tells us today with an amendment 'I will also bring you new units'. The failure, in other words, of the government's planning results in overturning the forecasts they had made a few years ago, beyond the costs to which they referred to in order to operate social automation. But it is the result of your failure, Minister, that consumers will pay a further contribution for two years through the accounts. It is, of course, the euro you have put in, for which the Citizens' Counsel has put questions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like a little more time, Mr President. It is also the fact that you have lost funding or want to lose the funding of the EUR 450 million that was guaranteed. So, that's how you're going through this? Instead of removing the units, you bring us new ones and tell Mr.Michologanakis: "Declar, Micholoannakis. You fought all these years together with the other MPs and we were well placed in a design to remove the units. Now vote for new ones and we will see what happens." I conclude by saying that this is not acceptable at all and we do not vote for the amendment. You have a reference to two settings. With regard to the EGM, workers are complaining about the abolition of labour rights by converting the legal person. I have the announcement here, and I will submit it to the Minutes. Moreover, is it possible to ignore the final decisions on illegally withheld? You've paid half the employees you were entitled to. The rest of you say: 'Go to the clearer'. Furthermore, I must tell you that there are criminal responsibilities here, because they are also insurance contributions, but also withholding tax. That's not allowed. Under no circumstances can you do this. So change the order and pay the money to the rest of us and inspire, as you did, with half the people. From there, proceed as you wish. Finally, for the EUTEM, it seems that some have signed a contract to dismantle technological education. This is the Minister of Education. From there on, of course, there is also an ETUC. Why is this provision? Mr. Stasinus asked for it? Tell us, did Mr. Stasinus ask for it, the president of the TEI? Mr. Spirtzis asked for it? Who asked for it? We are voting against the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u187	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u188	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, I will only take a minute to clarify something to Mr Kegeroglu. The transfer of small airports or small stations will not take place in the Greekopratics. Do not demolish on this. It's only about Chania and Atherinolakko. There is a six-month authorisation for...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u190	Minister... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u191	Don't do that now. This procedure is not foreseen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u192	We're talking about all of Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u193	We're moving on. Mrs. Iglezi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the issues of the country's energy policy several times within the framework of parliamentary procedures, the European Union's energy policy, issues relating to PPC, national energy and climate planning, the Paris Climate Agreement and much more. So we come today to discuss a multi-brand plan of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which includes several separate and co-ordinate important sections, geothermality, the establishment of the "Greek Authority for Geological and Mining Research" which replaces the IGM, the company transformation of the PPC, issues of the Land register, amendments to the provisions of urban legislation and energy. Of all this, I would particularly like to focus on the issues relating to the country's geothermal potential. I would like to focus on geothermality and not because I do not appreciate the rest as significant, but because I firmly believe that geothermality is a sector that has been underestimated very much in previous years, and can be a significant energy way out for many regions of the country. In a phase where our main energy policy is to change the energy mix of the country by gradually declining the use of fossil fuels and the development of renewable energy sources, the regulations that are currently being proposed in the field of geothermality can contribute significantly in this direction. And that, because so far geothermality seemed to be the poor relative of the RES. But it is clear that the government is willing to bring the country's geothermal potential to the energy map. The examples we have in our country from the exploitation of geothermality are measured on the fingers of one hand. This scenery we want to change. Geothermal energy, i.e. the heat of the interior of the earth, a mild renewable energy source, with negligible to zero environmental effects, can be exploited significantly, especially by the primary sector. When fossil fuels discharge production costs and due to the volatility of their prices put the producer insecurity, geothermality may be a way out. In particular, the agri-food sector and our country's fish farms have a lot to gain from exploiting geothermality, strengthening local economies, creating jobs and promoting a mild environmental footprint. Our country has several geothermal fields, which can be exploited without much cost. In my place, in Halkidiki, there are two geothermal fields of low enthusiasm, the one of the Olive Villages in Nea Provondida and San Aftos Sani Aftos in Kassandra. Their exploitation will bring significant benefits to local society and the economy, and that is why the geothermal fields are an undeniable natural national resource and their exploitation is of particular economic importance. We do not lack the technology to make use of this resource. We must, however, set the conditions to ensure sustainability in its management, with a view to moving to a low-emission economy, but also to an economy of needs. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that some time ago we voted for the legislation on energy communities, and that is because in our energy planning through the plans of the energy communities, social and decentralised energy production for production and consumption is promoted with clean and cheap energy from RES, which also strengthens energy autonomy. The use of geothermality therefore complements the possibilities of local communities to exploit the RES. Through energy collaborative schemes, geothermality can be specifically exploited in greenhouses, in farm drying facilities, in the heating of fish farms and many more. In particular, the co-operatives of the country have a wide range of scope to act and exploit the potential of geothermality. The institutional framework exists, the incentives have been given. Farmers must collectively come out in this area as well. I cannot, however, mention the potential of the use of geothermals for heating and cooling public buildings, schools and hospitals. On the other hand, I consider it crucial that the policy of incentives for similar uses and for private buildings is also crucial. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the abolition of the IGM and the establishment of the Hellenic Geological and Mining Research Authority reflect the challenges that a modern state has to face on the issues of geology and mineral resources. Action in the fields of geo-risks, geo-energy, the geo-environment, the techniques for protecting and restoring the environment from geological and mining activities requires a modern public geological principle based on the historical and long-term experience and activity of HEME can give a new perspective. This shift is done with the full guarantee of workers and their exploitation in the new beginning. I would like to stress that it is about setting up a principle in the service of the state and society, and not about another public enterprise with private economic criteria, and that is a clear political choice for how to exploit the natural wealth of our country. Finally, I too welcome the exclusion of shale gas and oil from usable deposits, the ban on their exploitation. And I note that the amendments to which Mr Chironis referred should immediately, Minister, come back and vote. Each step towards protecting the environment is a step towards a sustainable future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u196	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u197	Mr Micheloannakis, I think that after the short speech of the Minister you have no comment to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u198	Just give me a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u199	Here, you have the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u200	Minister, I think this has been cleared up after your position. The constant demand of the society of Heraklion for years has been the removal of the Linopera. In the amendment we saw that although there was an old intervention and version of an FEK that defined the relocation, although the ETUC meeting had unanimously supported the relocation, we suddenly saw it being said that the energy gap would be covered by a floating unit in the Atherinolakkos region of Heraklion. However, we are surprised that not only will the relocation of the plant be promoted, but it will also provide for new aircraft. I believe, however, that this thing has left the amendment. Is that clear?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u202	Good, clear, clear. Let's go down. The State Secretary, George Diaras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill solves problems: it opens the way to exploiting geothermality as a renewable energy source, solves problems in relation to the register. I have heard the rapporteur in the New Democracy and in the committees and in the plenary say why the IPCC is divided. The PPA is divided from one side into infrastructure and networks and on the other hand into marketing and production, because we do not want to give the majority of the company that controls the networks to private enterprises. In other words, we want the Greek State to have the majority in the networks, because that is how it can plan a productive reconstruction policy in the country. The same logic was in PPC, because PPC was separated in this way, so that once again the Greek State controlled the networks. The New Democracy's attitude is even the networks and infrastructures to go to large multinationals, usually companies. If that's not neoliberalism, then what is it? In other words, when we say right-wing policy, it means delivery of production, but also of infrastructure and networks to multinational companies. With these policies of the New Democracy and PASOK, all banks were handed over to aggressive foreign funds, the so-called funds, after reaching bankruptcy. The banks controlled by the Greek State, i.e. the National Bank, the Post Bank, the Agricultural Bank, the Commercial Bank, all went to investors and mainly to foreign investors. How, then, will a state develop a process of productive reconstruction without any state-owned bank? With the same political logic of the New Democracy, the Greek State does not need to control either the networks of Physicians or the networks of PPC. I listened with care and placement of the JRC. It's on the other side. I understand the other logic of the JRC to one point. Good or bad, we're not alone in the world. We are in the European Union, either from choice or from need. We have chosen the European Union as a country, perhaps for geostrategic reasons, economic reasons and others, and we are subject to its rules, which we really want to improve and change, creating similar alliances. As long as the data, international, European, are allowed, we are struggling to set up a sustainable economy and a fair society, an economy that is not the one that has been built now, which has collapsed into certain shocks. The other option would be to be alone in opposition and leave the old system, New Democracy and PASOK, to rule the country as we saw them, as they knew. I also wanted to refer to geothermality, because I would like to say that it is absolutely necessary to make use of this renewable source of energy for our contribution to tackling climate change and limiting the country's dependence on energy. The bill we are discussing simplifys the procedures and lays down conditions for the quicker and better use of geothermality. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I would like to remind you that we have commitments from the European Union by 2030 to have a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, at least, compared to 1990 and a 27% increase in total energy consumption from renewable sources. Therefore, such decisions must take a lot and turn financial resources and work into these directions. By 2050 we will have to reduce emissions by 80% by 95% compared to 1990. I also wanted to stand in the register, because that's where I have responsibility and supervision. The articles on the register deal with functional problems that have been demonstrated by the realisation process that some legislative changes and improvements are needed. Let me note that in 2015, after twenty years of the founding law of 1995, the Land register covered 6.5% of the country's surface and around 25% of rights and titles, because mainly urban areas were built up. At the moment, the whole country is being recorded. That's the difference. We're aiming, by the end of 2021, to finish almost with the realisation. However, from the past, there have been mistakes in old real estate and major discrepancies. Citizens are afflicted. We know that very much and we understand it. We have complaints from too many regions. They usually ask for extensions. They're title issues. We don't want them going to court by spending money on lawyers, etc. That is why we are trying, by monitoring evolution, to continue to provide solutions and to improve the law where it is needed and where we see the application as necessary. That is why Articles 56, 57 and 58 really improve the law. That is why we also accepted the amendment by the SYRIZA Members, with a general number of 222, by Mr Tsironi, Mr Kamateros and others, because this amendment also solves problems, such as the ones we are facing in Lefkada, where mistakes are too great and we should give a year to correct errors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fifty-one students and students and three educational attendances from the 2nd Kilkis High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, Mr Spartin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today deals with very important issues of responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, such as the modernisation of the institutional framework for geothermal exploitation, with the aim of finally exploiting the country's unexploited geothermal potential in order to cover the part that is due to it in the national energy and climate change plan for 2030. Geothermal exploitation is known to have extensive applications from electricity production, district heating, desalination, agricultural applications, aquaculture and many others that the country has so far not been able to exploit. Another timely issue that comes to resolve the draft law is the creation of the successor organisation of the IGM, the EAGM, a legal person governed by public law by clarifying its responsibilities relating to a regulatory role or to a supervisory role and by harmonising its object, structure and staff with other bodies and those in place in most European countries, ensuring jobs for workers. In my time, however, I would like to focus on the ownership separation of gas distribution networks and the transformation of the IPCC. Article 53 of the draft law adds articles to Law 4001/2011 regulating the new ownership status of PPA, as it is transformed after its separation into PPAs for Infrastructure and Commerce, as well as to issues such as control of distribution networks, control capabilities of RAE, absorption of subsidiaries and labour relations for existing personnel. This draft law completes the planned privatizations through a very different approach from the one designed by the previous governments. In the energy sector, both electricity and natural gas, the current government chose and succeeded, overthrowing the plans of the previous government, the respective networks to remain under public control by ensuring 51% of their share capital. This was done with IPTO for electricity, and this is now done with the PPA for natural gas infrastructure. We overthrowded the program of HIDE for full privatisation of IPTO and we succeeded by holding 51% in the public sector and by introducing a strategic investor to have a very successful outcome with great investment in very short time, despite the 'Cassandra' of neoliberal idealism that the project will fail because we did not deliver them all to private individuals. Because they really are the ones following a false Thacher recipe, whether they sell everything out with a blind or post-advisory tactic, or fail to go ahead with successful moves that will ensure public interest and control in infrastructure crucial to national security and national strategy, energy adequacy and the fight against energy poverty. The previous government's attempt to privatise the DESCRIP, for example, has made progress in an agreement that was not compatible with European data and has been rejected by the European institutions. Today the public holds 34% in the DESFA with much stronger rights, with much better sale price and harmonious co-operation with the company of the majority package. It seems that those who proclaim that the economy - in principle the private economy - are above politics, above society and even democracy, cannot afford to be privatised, even if they are indifferent to the public interest. What stops them? The lack of competence, necessary knowledge, proper data weighting, or that their minds are somewhere else? The current government having a specific plan, orientation, principles and care for the public interest and the social benefit went under its own different logic of segregating and privatising the section of the PPA relating to marketing, keeping here the majority of the public infrastructure and gas distribution networks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Article 53 lays down the conditions for such ownership. It is laid down that the operator, i.e. the operator owned and controlled by the distribution network, may not exercise direct or indirect control by an undertaking or person carrying out any of the activities for the production or supply of natural gas or electricity or for the marketing thereof. In addition, the absorption from the DEPA of Trade and the Infrastructures of their subsidiaries is defined within three months of the completion of the partial division. Also, it is an important issue - working relationships based on a technical economic study prepared by the “DEPA SA” - and a time limit is introduced for the protection of the existing staff of the International Trade Organisation. It is worth emphasising that contracts are signed indefinitely during the transition to the new scheme for workers who meet fixed and permanent needs and are currently working under the unacceptable status of contract workers. To conclude, I would like to stress that the majority package of the public in the Infrastructures PPA ensures the extension of natural gas to thirty two cities in Greece without being hampered by the criteria of a private person who would obviously not have as a strategic plan the penetration of natural gas into towns for domestic and commercial use, which is the objective of the government's energy policy and its specific planning. In the context of this policy, it was recently made in Patras, as a seat of the Region of Western Greece, a wide-ranging meeting with the Minister, the Administration of the TEN, the first and second degree self-government, scientific, technical and productive entities where the arrival of the natural gas in Western Greece - a request for decades - became the subject of a positive approach and was discussed not with generalities and abstracts, but on a specific basis with location points in the three counties of the region, anticipated consumptions, timetables, etc. All this can be ensured by public infrastructure control, while leaving room for long-term investments safe for major retail investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, too. Mrs. Hara Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, we are discussing a multi-brand plan from the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. But I would like to make a comment first. When we debated the procedure in committee, i.e. with three committees as an urgent procedure, there was a great deal of objection, I would say a fuss. Some said "Why do you bring such a serious bill through three committees, etc. by the urgency procedure’; But the picture presented today by the House, and at the moment and during the longer part-session, shows that these objections, these words are more for reasons of impression, for reasons of opposition and not for substance, since we are discussing such a serious bill. Also, this continued today, I would say. All the speeches I have heard from the Qualified Opposition, the rapporteur, and so on, we continue to have catastrophes. At some point there should be elementary self-criticism from those who ruled and put us in the memoranda of what they did on the energy side. In other words, we cannot hear about the PPA, about the networks, about the procedure being followed, when the New Democracy and the PASOK as a government wanted to sell it effectively, while the networks are guaranteed under public control, which was also about 66% of IPTO, which was about 30%, the small PPC. All of this can't be passed like this, like nothing's happened. Ladies and gentlemen, climate change really is present. It is present, it is not make news and makes its presence felt every moment. Within this framework and with a guide to the very important Paris Convention on Climate Change, we are moving towards the commitments of the European Union and the global community, I would say, to the further development of renewable energy sources. A very important renewable energy source is the use of geothermal energy. So I'd say it's a renewable source that's environmentally friendly. Also, if we look at it from prehistoric times, hot springs were used for certain specific reasons. Italy also first installed a geothermal power plant at Larderello, Tuscany. World War II has been growing further. And I would say that the number of countries that used geothermality in 2000 was fifty-eight, and the United States was ahead of the geothermal utilization list, covering 29% of the total global use of geothermal energy. In Greece we have many heat wells, from Eidipsos, Methanas, Kassandra Halkidiki, Loutraki, over seven hundred fifty. Of these three hundred forty - eight are scattered throughout Greece and are used, offering healing treatments. Nor can I mention an important source in the Lesbos, which is one of the areas where the water temperature is one of the largest and reaches about 92 degrees Celsius. But when did the development of geothermality begin in Greece? It started with the Institute of Geological Surroundings in 1970, the precursor of today's FIME, which was aimed at - the first research it started - the high geothermal fields, what we call high enthusiasm in the volcanic arc of the southern Aegean. In Milos, as we said before, there was a bad example of a misapplication by PPC at the time and it was somewhat discredited. In the 1990s, however, research continued. The benefits are as follows. Mild form, clean, friendly, small emissions of pollutants, absence of smoke, ash, suspended particles, continuous supply, which makes it competitively superior to other forms, I would say, renewable sources, a small area of use of geothermal energy, something very important, of course, something that must also be done in our country, exploiting by-products, metals, etc. Here I will say that as far as the use of geothermal fluids is concerned, Italy is again a pioneer. Since 1810 there has been a production of boar from a geothermal source. In Article 13 I would like to make a point on the point that we are talking about energy heating and cooling systems that we are talking about here - because there is also a confusion about so-called shallow geothermality - about heat pumps and a series of technological applications that exist and are implemented. To mention the important example of the Municipality of Nea Ionia, which, for the last four to five years, the hospital, the children's stations, the youth centres are heated by heat pumps and with concrete application and utilization of intensified geothermality use energy. But can there be geothermality in Greece without IGME? The government rescued the IGM. With more than sixty-five years of history - from the IGY, as I said before - we also had in the governments of New Democracy and PASOK - and I am sorry that Mr Kegeroglu, who was placed before and spoke about the IGY - in 2011 with Law 4024 and with the Ministerial Decision 25200 of the IGM with the EMCDDA in the so-called EMCDDA. Also, peculiar reserves have been applied by previous governments, and these employees at the UFO do not forget them. One hundred and thirty employees in reserve! Also, our government just took over in 2015, by Ministerial Decision 12935, restored the IGM. This was, of course, abolished for the workers' reserves. We have played with the workers at the IGM, and I think they recognize it and together now, we will each contribute from the position of the new shape to the modern data with the EAGM, the National Geological Mining Research Authority, because it needs the country's productive reconstruction. Mineral wealth and scientists and research in this area are much more than necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u208	Mrs Stuboulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I will come back to an issue that we have been listening to since the morning, the prosecution of fire in Matti, because I feel compelled to recall in every direction, not the presumption of innocence, but the presumption of reality, which actually says that Rena Durou has been a District since 2014, not since 1964. So, Rena Dourou since 2014, she is not the one who built the houses in the pine forest, she is not the one who shook the streets and the beaches, she is not the one who arranged under the table how all the people in charge will look the wrong for all this lawlessness. This is where the word 'insurance' goes, the favorite of the two wings that are now missing. Others have been district rulers, ministers, or prefectures since 1964 or even since 1834, and it is too much to come here to shake the finger. Justice is also, of course, legitimate to check how quickly and efficiently our services, civil protection, police, firefighting, port, have worked, but we must remember that from good luck or from divine justice those who first rounded up and saved hundreds of our fellow people, picking them up from the sea, are Egyptian fishermen, fellow compatriots and perhaps friends of the neonazis who have tried to stab in their own home, who too have come here to swing our fingers. Now, as far as the draft law is concerned, today there is a big step towards upgrading our country's energy policy and indeed towards making use of a truly renewable energy source, very important, with zeros - I would say - a burden on the environment, geothermality. Northern Greece is full of geothermal fields in both Macedonia and Thrace. In particular, in Serres, in my region, the entire Strymona basin is an important geothermal field that starts at the Greek-Bulgarian border and reaches the Strymonic Gulf near Amphipolis. I must say that for many years the thermal part of this source of energy has been exploited. The bathrooms of Nigrita, Sidirokastro and Agistros are well known. Less years use is made of the geothermal field for mainly spirulina production in Nigrita, but also in Sidirokastro. Also, the surveys at the Municipality of Heraklion have yielded and are expected to use the field identified by the IGM and the municipality is preparing to use it. Where the municipalities intervene, however, there is no public authority that effectively controls sustainable management. This gap seems to me to cover the current bill, because it regulates the Geothermal Capacity Operation and Management Framework, with the decentralised administration in the fields defined as well as the Greek Geological and Mining Research Authority in the national fields of interest and overall across the country, which can oversee and regulate and above all design, coordinating local authorities. This bill facilitates research and encourages use, but ensures social compensation from farm fees, where 10% of the rent goes to the municipality, and if the holding is intended to meet needs of education and health, schools and hospitals, no rent or a guarantee letter is required. I believe, Minister, that the same regulation should apply to detention shops, such as the Nigrita office and to the foundations and structures of responsibility of the Ministry of Social Solidarity, such as those at Sidirokastro. I would ask you to expressly add this to the text of the law in order to ensure that this legislation is applied uninterruptedly. Very important is the increase in the minimum temperature for the determination of the geothermal field by five degrees from the 25th to the 30th Celsius, because it leaves room for quick and inexpensive exploitation of lower temperature sources for irrigation of greenhouses or other mild uses. With the bill, too, the IGM is part of the EGMM. It was developed by the previous speaker. It is a body which has been afflicted very much in the Memorandum years, and now its responsibilities and functions are being upgraded and its employees at the same time being assured. The safeguarding of workers is very important, worthy of us, you know. In addition to maintaining public control with 51% of the shares, there is provision for ensuring its independence and public interest with the incompatibilities foreseen for shareholders and members of the board of directors. The Land register, which was always stuck, is on the move now. And I think it is very good that committees are being set up to examine cases of property exploitation, which are going to look at exceptional cases involving extensive errors and do not merely constitute legal disputes between the declarants, so as to ensure that the public interest is defended here as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, too. Mrs. Gara, you have the floor for two minutes from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u211	I'll come to the Step for my dentistry. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, moving towards the completion of the debate and the adoption of the draft law, I will try to focus on the most important points of this draft law. I do not need to mention again the most benefits of exploiting geothermality both in the economy, in the agricultural sector, in tourism, in investment, in strengthening labour and exports, as well as saving energy and protecting the environment. It is, however, a good opportunity to note that we have set high on our priorities the exploitation of renewable energy sources and the designation of the country as an energy hub, and we have worked closely on the completion of major transnational projects or on the conclusion of agreements, as well as on the extension of networks, on the promotion of the CNG, the LNG, but also on the adaptation and improvement of the institutional framework for the energy field as a whole. Our work, but also our approach to that of previous governments, strongly demonstrates the opposition to progress and maintenance. As far as the provisions on the Land register and town planning are concerned, it is noteworthy that citizens benefit, both in terms of time and money and, above all, an end to the arbitrary construction that has prevailed in the past. As far as the separation of the PPA is concerned, once again we have the different approach we have with New Democracy and KINAL on the issue of the main infrastructure of the country. They have supported and launched full privatisation, while we are promoting the model of the break-up of infrastructure from trading, with the network staying under public control, and also the right to veto the public in major international interests and cooperation. The biggest issue is defending the public and, above all, the national interest in this matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I take time from my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u212	Mrs. Gara, since we're talking about dentistry, let's get in touch with each other. You have already spoken sixteen and a half minutes when you first spoke. And Mr. Screkas has spoken seventeen minutes and twenty-nine seconds. So that there is no sense of injustice. Understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u213	I do not feel any sense of injustice, we have just asked for tolerance, because it is a plan, and we said that half of it will be in our second language. I won't be too late. I want two minutes. Indeed, the provisions are too many on different issues. As far as the conversion of IGM into a public body is concerned, then, we make it clear that we are going beyond the pathogens of the past that have rendered IGM incomplete. We are recommending a modern public body with new responsibilities, which will also be involved in preventing major disasters and dangers, which is necessary and timely with what we are discussing today. It also ensures and shields uninterrupted research, free of pressure and interests. As far as energy provisions are concerned, I shall refer briefly to them. It is important to predict price increases in small photovoltaic and energy communities at 10%. It is also important to ban the fragmentation of energy projects, the ban on flucking, and the 10% fee in local communities from the use of geothermality projects. I would like to stress that the work rights and positions of workers in PPC and EAFRD are guaranteed, and particularly important is the increase in the fields of ninety degrees for already leased geothermal fields, mainly concerning Alexandroupolis, Nestu and others. Finally, on the occasion of the speech by my colleague Mr Prussakis, some questions have been raised. So since we consider the geothermal fields in Alexandroupolis to be models and important projects, I wonder why so many years has not changed the framework to unlock the works of geothermality? Why was it not promoted and did not support the extradition of the expected licence? Why did a Mr. Stathakis or a SYRIZA have to come to unlock this great and beneficial work and get the first universal leave? Why does New Democracy not recognise the importance and use of energy communities for the benefit of small local communities, since the first thing that has happened was between the Municipalities of Alexandroupolis - Samothrace, the Port Agency and Metropolis Alexandroupolis? Instead of working for so many years to promote geothermality, you ran to give mining permits to the Thracian gold mines. And finally, a clarification as to the payroll from the wind parks. We were the ones who gave the payrolls of the previous period that the New Democracy ruled until 2014 and the process was already completed to return to Evros from 2014 onwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Screkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. I will not repeat what I said in my prototype, Minister. But let me make a special reference to an important issue concerning the country, and I mean the rural one. You know very well - or if you do not know - that the Greek farmer and Greek farmer, the country's agricultural sector, has been brutally hit by the SYRIZA Government of Mr. Tsipras. Let me tell you two - three things that have happened over these four years. First of all, taxation has increased. Secondly, contributions to the insurance funds have increased. Thirdly, VAT has been increased for many years from 13% to 24%, even for the straw with which farmers feed and it took great struggles from us so that you can finally understand that it was unheard of for the farmer to pay 24% of VAT even for the straw. Energy costs have been increased, since you have now abolished the oil subsidy used by the farmer to farm his farms. You have also increased the excise duty on petrol and the excise duty on diesel, so that you will once again increase the cost of agricultural production. Of course, over and above that increased the drugs and the seeds increased. So something needs to be done to save the country's primary sector, which is supposedly electorally and all these four years you are defending, but the results show that you are destroying it. Above all, there is also a new raisin, the environmental raisin, which, especially for the farmers of Thessaly and the Trikala I am elected for, will be at least EUR 11 to EUR 16 the acre to water their fields. In other words, you are driving farmers to stop watering their fields, to have watering crops, and you are leading them to dry crops, which have less efficiency and, of course, much less income. When they cannot survive with water fields, imagine what is going to happen with the dry land. Of course, they will leave the whole country uncultivated. So we come and tell you: come and help farmers in another way. You have come and passed, and you have given a better price in terms of agricultural photovoltaics. It's about five thousand facilities. We agree, it's not enough. We come and tell you to help them in a way that reduces at least the cost of the installation in order to make them more sustainable. Allow them to build these parks on high productivity land. Secondly, put them into a development law to reduce the cost of initial installation. You disagree about installing these agricultural photovoltaics in high productivity land. We're coming and we're telling you to keep it what you're saying. We have the opportunity to build photovoltaics for compensation for their energy needs in order to water their fields, for example, or to operate the arteries in livestock facilities. We tell you that in these cases it is for small agricultural photovoltaics ten kilowatts, 20 kilowatts, thirty kilowatts installed, i.e. for arable photovoltaics that are 100 or 100 square meters, 0,2 per acre, 20% of an acre.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u216	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u217	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I need a minute. Please, Minister, come here to agree and give them the opportunity for these small ones who are for energy compensation, which will reduce production costs, which will reduce energy costs for farmers and farmers, come and give them the opportunity to build next to the pomone they are watering, next to their livestock unit. We are talking about 200 square meters and in this way to make them competitive and not only that, but also to add great value to the product produced, because it will be a agricultural product which will not be produced from lignite-fired energy, but from renewable energy sources, so it will be a green, twice green product. I think we have no disagreement on that. Come on, let's get through this now, today. We can do this - I repeat - only for the very small photovoltaics ten, twenty, thirty kilowatts, which is to reduce the energy cost of the farmer using it to water the field or to sustain and feed his animals. You said one last thing, that the New Democracy thinks the state business is a curse. I will tell you, Minister, that the curse of state-owned enterprises is unfortunately SYRIZA. Both PPC and ELTA and the Athens Urban Transport were profitable in 2014, they are heavyly problematic businesses and injurious businesses in 2019, after four years with SYRIZA governance. This is the curse, and unfortunately you leave all this for the next ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u218	The House is aware that the Minister of Interior, the Vice-President of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Ministers for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Deputy Ministers of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, currently tabled a draft law, 'Promoting the effective equality of the sexes, the digital policy, Telecommunications and Information and Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity' -as well as 'Promoting the fundamental equality of the sexes, Prevention and Combating the Integration of Victual Religious Opportunities'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr. Arvanitides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u219	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like to make a clarification about the remark you made about unbundling. Explain to me about Article 53 and the ownership division. Is there a company that owns a gas and electricity trading company, and at the same time owns 49% and runs an exclusive company operating distribution networks in Thessaloniki? Does this company interfere with the prohibitions laid down in Article 53? Is this company, in other words, going to have to separate ownership and leave? Correct me if I am mistaken if, on the basis of your arrangements, you will force an investment to leave the country, unless you exclude it. Of course you are exempted from the care of Article 80g, where you are talking about existing participations and rights. Isn't that a piece of legislation, legislation? As far as the workers are concerned, the new pattern of the DEPA ensures them, you say, for three years. Why three and not six, as you gave for PPC in lignite? I mean, you're playing games with the workers, you're mobilizing roughly and improperly. Subscribe an addition to the draft law, so that the PCC board and the board of any other company in the group is lawful to proceed directly to the absorption of contractors with an indefinite employment relationship. For us, this is a trap for both workers and investors. You are preparing segregations and recruitments with rhyspheological and paleo-party criteria, you are getting favourable treatment 'days'. We said from the outset: Take back this bill and bring in a serious proposal, a proposal that will enhance the sustainability of the single PDP, a proposal that will be profitable to the national economy. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I would again stress that the results of your choices will be regrettable. In this sad stalemate, we will have arrived solely on your own responsibility because of delays in the networks, in the competitions. Even for geothermality, you brought the relevant provisions with a delay of one and a half years, while they were ready. These deadlocks cost national, economic and social costs. In closing, Minister, with this bill you make two meaningless state-runs and based on your so far failure in the timetables, even in the gastation of the Greek region, I doubt you will be able to implement what you are planning. You may be able to bring back some amendments, but reforms in the energy sector in the country are still pending, which will cost the Greek consumer primarily. No resentment characterizes us as any such delinquency. I answer Mr. Xydakis. We are here with our proposals and positions, strengthening day after day, we are the responsible progressive force without fear and passion, and this attitude rewards us by the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, too. Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't talk more than my time. I think I'm entitled to more than that. Those of you who do not monitor in detail to listen, because the Greek language is too rich, how we are placed and exactly what we say, you will fall into gaugs, you will speak inaccurately and you will lie. Mr President, I should like to refer to Mr Stavoulis' previous colleague, Mr SYRIZA. I have absolutely nothing personal with you. You mentioned and said that the presumption of innocence applies. I couldn't agree more. Immediately afterward, however, you referred to a court case that is being dealt with. You don't have that right. You cannot choose to refer to a presumption of innocence in one case and in the other not. The same mistake was made by the President, who, by leaving, wanted to make a point to a speaker on the Golden Dawn, while referring to the presumption of innocence, said 'killers'. Where does that come from, Mr President? It's sounded like "killers"!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u222	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u223	First there was the champagne cross.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u224	That's what it sounds like. The other one didn't sound. The other one wasn't spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u225	I might be wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u226	Look at it from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u227	Your role is institutional, it is not to comment on each party's own speaker. This may be judged by those who listen to it. You have no right selectively to speak of evidence of innocence. There are no double standards.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u228	I didn't talk about a presumption of innocence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u229	I'm not just talking about you, Mr. President. But the reports that have been made several times by your own officials, government officials and MPs, are violating the law of the state that was just passed last week. This cannot continue. If you continue with it, as I have said in my prototype, we will upset you in legality. And you keep in mind that lawsuits do not require immunity. You'll be parliamentarians for more than half a while. We will take you to the courts for years and you will pay with money that you will not receive from the Greek Parliament. Be careful how you act! We've never offended anyone on a personal level. You cannot succeed against an entire parliamentary group. And can I tell you something? I'm not a defendant. What right are you doing against me because I belong to the nationalist movement? No, you personally, I don't have anything with you. I don't even know you. But forget about that in here. Either you are truly democrats and you will observe the Rules of the Parliament and the Constitution of the State or go home if you do not stand. In no case can the muddity and teratology of the Left continue. It's over! When we don't offend someone, you have absolutely no right. Presumption of innocence and you're talking about an incident in court? Are you a judge? You're going to pay justice? What right? It's over! If you want democracy, if you want to be tolerant of the diversity that you stand for as left with your ideas, prove it to us! And then you can move our finger. No one in this Chamber can move me personally to my rivals because the case is in the Greek courts. And when Greek justice ends with this trial, come move our finger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u231	Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u232	Despite the atrocities of the previous speaker that it was not a personal attack, it was a personal one! - and it also contains threats. So we will not be fascinated by the neo-nazi formula in the Greek Parliament. From the Step forward of the House, we have a right - which we do not dismiss - and situations - to describe and judge and judge events that are published and universally known to us to have.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u233	No case pending in the courts! Presumption of innocence, that's the essence! Otherwise, you wouldn't have voted ten days ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-four students and students and three teachers from the 2nd Gymnasium of Kilkis (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u235	Let me remind you that Paul Bridge was murdered and the killer is at home. Therefore, there are murderers. The greatest shame is that the trial is not complete and lasts for so many years. And there is a responsibility to the governments for this shame. Just like the Chief of Golden Dawn took the political responsibility of murder, let the Chrysayites on top of us not get out! Let's go to the bill now. Minister, you spoke about the IGM and said that the number of staff is being guaranteed. What age do these workers have? What's the average? They're fifty-nine-sixty years old and they're leaving, they're going to retire. Where and when will they hand over to younger people? You throw their experience in the trash. That's what you're doing. And for clearance you said nothing - it is the third time that we put the matter on - and for the other half of the workers. Regarding the DEPA: Yes, there is a difference in the privatisations between SYRIZA and New Democracy. Let me say it like that: The Syrians are more dudes. Why? They cut off the state business, sell what is "fleet" and bring more profits and the businessman buys it cheaper because he buys a piece and of course the most profitable and that is why they prefer SYRIZA much more than the traditional representative of capital, which was New Democracy. Now they've found SYRIZA their best representative. That is why the SYRIZA Government is moving on to the privatisation of state wealth very quickly. Of course, the capital is good and the people pay it. But for the contract workers in PPA you wished for a farewell. You recognize that these people are offering, but nothing has been passed on to the bill that ensures their work. I conclude with the amendment on the lignite fields, which we are voting against. Here it also contains another paragraph for installation and operation of power plants at existing power plants in Crete. Look, right now in Crete, and especially in Malevisi, this amendment of rage and indignation has caused this. The procedures are fast track and the road opens to install new, additional aerobics at the Linoperama Station, despite the opposition of the municipality, which was by unanimous decision. We are telling you - and, of course, they themselves have said so - that there are alternative ways of covering the energy gap and that they must be removed from Malevisi. What are we asking? We say clearly that we will vote against it, but at least once the Minister said that it was not about the Linders orally, go through the writing. The words are the air. You don't even pay tax for your words! Mercy! Put it clean, clear, because what does the amendment refer to? It refers to the operation of power plants on the island of Crete, to be okay, but these people are also fortified. I conclude with the parliamentary amendments that you have accepted. I will start with Amendment 2011, which is 'photographic' and unacceptable. We will vote against it. It's a challenge. I continue with the 2012 amendment to the register. It does not solve the many problems that exist and which have been created. It has a limited character, and that is why we are saying 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Minister, do you want the floor to put on the stereogram? Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, from what I saw in the seconds, the main objections of your prototypes have been withdrawn, as if the big issues you raised have been resolved, and you are coming back focused on individual issues that could add something to what has been raised throughout these days. I'll start with the farmers' photovoltaics. As you know, for the first time with this bill, it clears the landscape of what is part of the competitions, all forms over 500 MW, and what does not belong to a competition that is below 500 MW and which depends on its price always from the competition, adding a 5% incentive for individuals, i.e. small producers and a 10% for the energy communities. We have taken the first step, to increase the possibility for farmers, by a hundred, to produce up to five hundred. Secondly, not with a certain number, namely the right to have it two thousand, three thousand, five thousand, but all farmers have the right to do so. That's the second big cut we're making. And the third incision is that we treat them as 10% that they can get above the price of the contest with the energy communities. Energy communities, as you know, retain an advantage because it is the institution that we promote - that is obvious - and it is a very innovative institution and has enormous potential for energy production and energy savings and can make it households, small communities, multi-households, universities, TEIs, farmers, livestock associations, municipalities, everyone. There we have also given them a first ESDP programme to promote investment in rural communities. I also said in my speech that we are open to any debate, to see something similar for small energy producers, farmers and we will see it in the future. So with regard to the objections that came after Mr Screka, I must be clear here: there is no way - and I am in agreement with the Minister for Agriculture - that the land of high productivity should be licensed. High productivity land is finite, is a high productivity land exclusively for agricultural use. Greece has - thank God! - huge percentages of other land with all these characteristics, NATURA forests and dozens of other large areas. We must protect the land of high productivity and we will not turn it into use for renewable energy. That is clear from my point of view and from Mr Arachovitis' side, that this is not going to happen. So let's get this straight. We are going to the second theme on which the workers are concerned - I have heard the JRC carefully - and the energy sector too. I've learned from the JRC that they live in the IGM.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u238	It's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u239	It's a gala regime the IGM for which I didn't hear you say about the fact that they had private insurance, private pension. I guess you're applauding it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u240	It was an extra conquest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u241	The JRC welcomes them and I am pleased to hear this, that public sector workers are invited to have private insurance, private retirement, public insurance and public retirement. I'm really surprised to hear it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u242	We're in capitalism, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u243	This government, as you know, defends with nails and teeth the public insurance system, the public pension system, the public health system, and stubbornly refuses to give space to private insurance, to engage in and take what the New Democracy says very explicitly in its programme, all the professional funds and supplementary insurance, and to take them exclusively from private insurance. Congratulations to the JRC on its insistence on being identical to private insurance opinions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u244	You've forgotten it looks like private insurance says the law... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u245	In the face of this, therefore, - I am coming back - the employees at the IGM have agreed to the extrajudicial compromise on the private system they have had in the past, in the long run, which paid public funds, so the public has paid back this amount from the budget, and their wages have increased. And now we are told that: "After our wages increased, do you not give us retrospectives?". That is a much wider decision issue. It does not concern this sector or industry, and I imagine it is an unjust and excessive one for every worker, and I wonder - I repeat - for the JRC, which in this way denounces something anti-labouristic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u246	It's stolen. That's what the governments have been asking for this decade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u247	Yes, sir. I go to the second section and to the labels for Crete and the energy system. I heard Mr. Kegeroglu, I read Mr. Augenakis. They are in desperation in Crete, especially in Heraklion, because terrible works have been done. There have been so many projects lately. I would also add a few recently: Build-up cooperatives, where we approved two in the Heraklion region after twenty-five and twenty-seven years, decommissioning years of problems. So they have a tendency to create a problem where it doesn't exist. And in an intelligent way - and the JRC, in applauding too - they have spoken about the Linders, which I repeat for the fourth time that no additional activities will be installed in the Linders. The units will go to Chania, I repeat it for a multiplier time, and the ashtrays in Atherinolakko. So a lot of fuss about nothing once again. I repeat: rather because of the inability and the inability to criticise, they are trying to create impressions where they do not exist. It reminds me of what was said about the ancients that we gave to the superstition and various other fireworks, which lack substantial content. The last issue of what has been said - and I shall end with that - concerns the work of all categories of energy companies which, as has been criticised, are not incorporated into the bill. However, it is an explicit commitment. It could not be incorporated because it has several technical and other issues. In the transition, however, we state directly, unequivocally and without any restriction that all categories of workers working under these conditions cover fixed, continuous needs or are within companies and work in organic positions, in essence, all these categories of workers, therefore through the process of separating the two companies, will be integrated and treated as permanent workers. This will be done and this is a substantial commitment by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fifty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the 6th High School of Larissa. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: "Research, exploitation and management of the country's geothermal potential, the establishment of the Greek Geological and Mining Research Authority, the ownership of natural gas distribution networks and other provisions". We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, eighty-six articles, three amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen up to four articles to be voted on are shown. To vote and the rest you have to roll on the scroll down screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the whole. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any question you may raise to the Bureau, so that the officials concerned may assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u249	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u250	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u251	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Research, exploitation and management of the country's geothermal potential, the establishment of the Greek Geological and Mining Research Authority, the ownership of the separation of natural gas distribution networks and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u253	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-07-S1-commons.u254	With the agreement of the House at 17.22 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 8 March 2019 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's proceedings: a) Special plenary session on International Women's Day and b) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
