ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Please beg Mrs Georgia Genias, MEP I Piraeus, to announce the petitions to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-03-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that there have been three topical questions in the agenda for today's topical and urgent debate, which will not be debated for reasons which I will speak immediately. The document of the Secretary-General of the Government is relevant. The first, with number 525/30-5-2019, timely question for the first cycle of the new Republic of Athens, Mr. Theocharis, Mr. Theocharis, Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "An unanswered questions about the General Secretary of Corruption", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Mr. Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, due to a workload. The first under No 526/30-5-2019 topical question by the New Democracy MP, Mr. Vassiliou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "No validation of results of the Board of Directors and the Higher Disciplinary Board of Doctors (PSC) of the Pan-Hellenic Medical Association (PSC)", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment of the relevant Minister. Also the second question under number 524/30-5-2019 of the Independent MEP, Eftathiou (Stathi) Panagoulis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Those persecutors are destroying property in defence of the professional killer Koufantina", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make the following announcements here: Firstly, the decision to incorporate the leaving from the Parliamentary Group of the Union of Central Members of the Association of Thessaloniki Mr Ioannis Saridis is made in writing. The statement of independence of the honourable Member to the President of Parliament will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-03-S1-commons.u3	It is also made known in writing that a member of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Theodora Megalonos, has resigned after her departure. The statement of independence of my colleague to the President of Parliament will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-03-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, there are requests from Members for permission. The Member of Parliament, Mr Vassilis Yoyakas, shall request a short-day absence abroad from 10 June 2019 to 13 June 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-03-S1-commons.u5	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Also MP II Athens Mr Nikolaos Dendias asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons, from 3 June 2019 to 4 June 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-03-S1-commons.u6	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member, Mr Ilhan Ahmet, shall request permission from a short-day absence for personal reasons from 29 May 2019 to 31 May 2019. For this licence, time has passed. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-03-S1-commons.u7	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of making two announcements to this House. Firstly, the Ministers for Environment and Energy, Home Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic and Administrative Reconstruction, the Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Economic, Environment and Energy, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity and Energy submitted a draft law on 31-5-2019: ‘Installation of forest maps of areas within the Ionian contours, control procedure, environmental management of these and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, Finance, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Deputy Ministers of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, tabled a draft law today: "Principle of the Criminal Code". Also, the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, National Defence, Foreign Affairs, Citizen's Protection, Finance, Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, draft law today: "Structuring the Code of Criminal Procedure". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-06-03-S1-commons.u8	With the consent of the House, 18.15 minutes will be closed.
