ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Following the Final Agreement on Dispute Resolutions described in United Nations Security Council Resolutions 817 (1993) and 845 (1993), the End of the 1995 Interim Agreement and the Establishment of a Strategic Partnership between the Parties". Before we start, say three things. Firstly, I believe that all the parties in the democratic arch are supporting Mrs Jackson and condemn the attack that took place yesterday at her home. The second is my personal opinion. I believe that all colleagues in this Chamber and those who vote in favour and those who vote against are the result of our free thought and support for the political line of our parties. In this sense, I consider Mr Nimitz's statements to be unacceptable yesterday. Thirdly, because, ladies and gentlemen, we arrived at the figure of fifty-nine yesterday, you realise that until two hundred-six and I ask you to accept it if we want all other Members to speak, or at least 90% of them, the seven minutes to be six. If you had heard me yesterday and hadn't reacted, we would have spoken at least half of my colleagues today. We'd be over a hundred. I ask you, together with the request, to keep the time, because those who are presided over are bad for colleagues, keep the time, those who want to be sympathetic to colleagues, leave time and run. I would ask you very much to accept this so that all Members can speak if possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u2	I think one minute that practically works does not limit your thinking. Most people here, at least the first, are capable of concentrating them. The Minister is here, so we can start. So we start with Mrs. Kefalidou. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, Mr President, we are associated with what you have said in the introduction of our debate. The Presidencies' Agreement we are debating today is, at best, highly controversial. In fact it is a disgusting, supposedly, solution to a nationally sensitive problem. The vast majority of Greeks consider it to be inconsistent to betrayal for national interests, but the Prime Minister calls it a 'historical step' for both countries and its ratification of 'patriotic duty', of course not omiting to describe it and to describe all those who support it on every opportunity 'right' and at the same time forgets that 70% of the citizens, at least as polls do, are against the agreement. Are all these extreme right-wing, supranational, fascists? To take seriously the words of a Prime Minister who has never solved any problems without creating another ten, would be inappropriate. Wondering how he can provokely ignore the people's will would be the one who gave the citizens a referendum in English and then made the "OHO" "NAH" by accepting a new memorandum on much worse terms, would be unnecessary. The perforated Prespecies Agreement is but a phantom diversion that strives to alleviate the last spasms of a tragic government, a government that in words writes history and in practice only does shameless shit. The press case is problematic from wherever you get it. As historical and patriotic as they present it to us, one is certain. If it passes, Greece renounces Macedonia's historic heritage. As for Skopje, they place the monopoly of identity and language with the bogeyman of the Greek Government and enter NATO proudly. It concedes that the country should go with tied hands in a series of endless negotiations with its neighbours on what is entitled to be called Macedonian and what is not. You should be aware that any such negotiation will always result in the Greek interests, because the government has made sure that this agreement is loaded. The Skopje may have rushed to change their constitution to pass the deal, which is the first time in history. But propaganda is not covered by the Constitution. After the agreement, it will have powerful momentum for it to continue but also to constantly undermine not only our historical acquired and current activity through the designations of origin of products, universities, etc. Those who perceive all this as an archaic or nationalist hypersensitivity remember that we will find all this in front of us every day in the near future, whether when we have official visits of neighbor's officials or even in recreational knowledge games. The government negotiated behind closed doors divisively, rather than seeking public dialogue and consensus from Greek society and the political world. That's how we handle ourselves. We are going to our destiny of doctrines, prejudices and ideas, instead of being informed, wise and calm. Only lack, you know, we don't have experienced diplomats, interethnicists, lawyers, economists, scientists who could, with their knowledge, give a global picture of all aspects of the subject. Instead of listening to them, however, and wisely, to create a draft serious agreement and discuss with the neighbour, you have given in to a sloppy and hasty agreement - cans. Already from the first paragraph where the Contracting Parties are identified, we find that the Hellenic Republic is compatible with an anonymous ‘second party’. And I ask you: which one of you in his private life would sign a contract or a simple lease without knowing what the counterparty is? Would you? Moving to the articles, we find a number of ambiguities and seemingly incomprehensible verbal acronyms that confirm only one, that the author is struggling behind uncertain generals to hide certain cases that he wants to suit. Soon we will find out what the progressive Mr. Zaev, who has already spoken in the Skopje Parliament about "The Aegean Macedonians" but will now be too late to do something. What's to say first? For Macedonians, citizens of northern Macedonia, for Macedonian language spoken by the North-Macedonians, called "Macedonians", for the free use of acronyms that do not have the "N", the North, by the North-Macedonians called Macedonians? Conclusion. The government's greatest achievement with this agreement is the one-sale of the term "Macedonia" from Skopje. And all that we are discussing will be the result of this and will lead to a revival of aluterism. And they are naturally made in an environment with intense smell of transaction, misery, cynicism, patriopathy, with heterogeneous majorities of one, with public hints of money to the right and left, and visits lightning in Athens to the powerful in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prespecies Agreement, if it were not filled with unscrupulous and degrading predictions for our country, would also be a good number for inspection, but with thriller elements. And because neither NATO nor the Americans nor Mrs Merkel nor Mr. Younger are used to staring in comedy, it's probably what we don't want to believe. A national tragedy in the birthplace. A lever of national division that is ruthlessly projected as a historic step and patriotic duty. At the same time, it is defined as a catalyst for reordering the political system towards the most unresolved and oppressive directions that the modern world has experienced.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u4	Please, Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u5	Finally, instead of acting in accordance with our long-term interests, we seem to trust others with our hormones and anger and others with the Prime Minister of '360 degrees' and 'non-existent sea borders'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u6	Mrs. Kefalidou, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u7	I shall conclude, Mr President. Do not forget that I am a Macedonian MP. Your tolerance for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u8	I don't forget the personal friendship we have, but I have to be consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. This Prime Minister and this government in twenty years will have passed into the finest of history. But what is happening today will mark the country from now on and in the adventurous world. It's too heavy a past you're creating.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u10	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u11	Today's agreement is not a memorandum to go through, nor is it a supreme ninety-year-old. The country will pay for it forever, and the Greeks of the future will find it before them. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the government, we are saying a pivotal 'OH' to this harmful agreement for our country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u12	Because of a mutual transfer, Mr. Maniotis now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u13	The Greek Parliament is now called upon to ratify the nationally harmful Prespecies Agreement. As with the Memorandums, with the Prespecies Agreement, Alexis Tsipras gave it all and took nothing for the country. Deliver the guns to a trooper. He took only one friendly hit on the back as a obedient executive of the foreign agent's orders at the historic moment that Greece had all the geopolitical advantages with its side. There has never been such a favourable juncture for national laws in recent years, leading American and European priorities for FYROM to join NATO and the European Union as a deterrent to extending Russian influence to the Balkans. The deal opens new wounds without closing the old ones. Ultimately the obedient Tsipra government assigned to Skopje what they have been requesting since 2008. According to the classified telegram of the United States Ambassador to Skopje that Wikileaks revealed asked for a country of North Macedonia, Macedonian language, Macedonian identity. They took them all three with a signature Alexis Tsipras, the name of Northern Macedonia to remain from the first moment only as black Macedonia. I submit for the record the relevant confidential telegram of the United States Embassy dated 29 July 2008. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Aleksia Tsipras has already been responsible for the business withdrawal of Greece from the Balkans and the concession of a vital space to the respective Turkish, German and American interests. Unfortunately, the ban on the term "Macedonian" for all Greek products will be followed. The Embassy Agreement commits the country to Article 2 not in any way oppose the accession of Macedonia to the European Union, even if a chapter, such as trademarks or agricultural products or energy, includes regulations harmful to Greek interests. They are locking the country down for the years to come, encouraging our basic rights as a Member State. Instead of forming a framework of national understanding and a strong patriotic negotiating force, Mr. Tsipras used the topic as a tool to hit Antipoliticism, thus breaking the snake's egg with the criminals neo-nazis of the Golden Dawn to come out of their dark rabbits again. In his new so-called central-left transformation Alexis Tsipras has spent several hours in front of his mirror, portraying Andreas Papandreou. He ignores that the great political leader doesn't do hypocritical techniques and rehearsals. They make him the load of knowledge, the range of performances, the whole of his life, his experiences, his achievements in and out of politics. Professor of Finance of the largest foreign universities Andreas Papandreou has nothing to do with it, it is light years away from the unrecognized and small man who typically has a degree in Engineering, but ignores that the 360-degree turn is in the same direction and not in the opposite direction. Because Andreas Papandreou opened the way to the middle class. On the contrary, Alexis Tsipras destroyed the middle class. Because Andreas Papandreou created the social state. On the contrary, Alexis Tsipras restored the social state. Because Andreas Papandreou expressed and served progressive patriotism. On the contrary, Alexis Tsipras unravels what the protector of the foreigner asks from all public property and the two thousand thirty-three monuments to the Macedonian. Because Andreas Papandreou shaped the strategy of national popular unity, the strategy of national reconciliation. On the contrary, Alexis Tsipras is based on division, miserable transactions and distances. Because, above all, Andreas Papandreou was aware of the leader's historical responsibility, as this historical responsibility was recorded in his historic speech in November 1995 on the interim agreement. On the contrary, Alexis Tsipras operates to the best of his life. It forms the most discomfortful situation in Transmolitanism. He is taking advantage of the difficult moment for his homeland and struggling with nails and teeth to be held in power. Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidencies' Agreement is injuring, undermining and dispersing the progressive ideas. Because progressive is the patriot. It is not progressively a solution that legalises the exclusive use of Macedonian identity, language and ethnicity in the state of Skopje. Because progressive is democratic. It is not democratically authoritarian to treat the syllables and social reactions. Because progressive is to respect political pluralism. It is not progressive to undermine parties with distances of willing and useful idiots to form counterfeiting majors. Because progressive is true and consistent. It's not the false and the inconsistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Maniotis, please, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u15	The vote against this harmful agreement is a one-way road, and anyone who supports it also assumes his historic responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Lykoudis is on his way. We won't stop. We move on to the next speaker and when Mr Lykoudi comes, he will speak. I don't want to go on deletion. Mr. Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. How can a person's conscience fit in six minutes? How can a people's identity fit in six minutes? Where were we when this course began? The geostrategic conditions required a solution. The moment was very positive. The country's interest, the narrative that we have that we are a pole of stability, was consistent with helping to find a solution to this difficult Balkan area. The leadership of the neighbouring country is at last biased and debated after decades. And he really wanted to find a solution to this timely problem. The Greek people, who have experienced defeats so many decades, also experienced some victories, such as Bucharest, were now ready, mature, to make a realistic, honest compromise for the sake of both peoples. What did you do? You're drunk. You thought that because the moment required a solution, you could bring any solution. You believed that we, who thought that we should not only give debts and problems to our children and that we should give them solutions to live their lives, would say 'yes' to any solution. Solution at all costs. So you started a secret diplomacy. You see, you know everything. You can do it all on your own. Unfortunately, however, the only thing that is greater than your inability is your arrogance. And unfortunately, the Greek people pay each other. Because the inability brought an agreement full of holes, infinite problems and gray zones. And arrogance dismantled the unity of the political world and national unity, to which we had arrived and which was possible. Of course, in your course, this agreement also seemed to be a useful tool for you. Because with the agreement you can break the Civic Opposition, you can dismantle the Centre, you can salute the centre-left and, of course, invent new divisions now that the Memorandum - our memorandum is over. You have come to call extremists and nationalists 70% of the Greek people who oppose this agreement. You've become far-right instructors. Angry, "I don't pay", referendums, Prespes. A straight line. Instead of acting as a leader - and he had the opportunity - to unite, which leads his people towards the future, Mr Tsipras acted as a party that knows everything and divides it. And we're getting to today. You are wasting the only historic moment that the country has to give a solution to this problem. Before the solution, no one dares. After the solution, no one can correct. This is the only historic moment to put things in place. And you're wasting it. You're capitalizing national damage. The national damage you capitalize will have your signature, will have the signature of those who have negotiated, those who have signed and those who are voting today. The worst of all: humiliate the Greek people. You're bringing in a foreign policy agreement. It's a foreign policy agreement. We do not have the pistol in the deal and we impose conditions. We give and take. When we give foreign policy issues, we give either identity or national sovereignty or both. When you do this, you do it with retraction. You do it with pain, so we can get a solution for our children. Because at that time we give flesh and blood. Not with boats and Happy Birthday. This is disrespectful to the Greek people, even if you believe in the historical necessity of this agreement. Why did you forget what Miteran said, since you are late fans of social democracy, that politics is the management of symbols. And the management of the symbols you've made is terrible. So you brought an agreement with infinite grey zones to economic, trademarks, abbreviations, identity. Even on the issue that has nothing to do with us, the Skopje conflict with the Bulgarians for language, we have taken place. Why should we do all this? Was there an alternative? Was there a way to bring in a deal that was better? They also ask me on the street: "What would you do? Wouldn't you do the same?" There was an alternative. If today we were discussing an agreement that was simply saying: 'A complex name on the part of Macedonia, admission to NATO with our signature, and our country's obligation to help with the accession process, take it and put it in the European Union and solve all the other issues in the opening up of funds, trademarks' and all that, - there is a European law, we would have the power of Europe with us - the language would be resolved within the European Union. Not now, with this deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u18	Close, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u19	I'm closing, Mr. President. And, of course, always, even if you're interested in what you're doing, you're asking for consideration. Think of what Turkey would do if it were in our place, how much it would take back. You didn't get anything. I was prepared to support an agreement, which, even today, I say is that in relation to the name is within the national line. I ask my old comrades to think twice and three times before they support this agreement, because it has many problems and many gaps. And now the conclusion to all the thinkers, rationalists, moderate citizens is one and is uncertain: not in the incompetent agreement, yes in the national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u20	He's worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u21	You're very welcome. Ironically, when colleagues speak, I will not allow anyone at all. Mr. Lykoudis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, our debate today on such a central and serious matter of foreign policy - national policy - is what we say and it is - such as the Prespecies Agreement, that it could be conducted in a completely different spirit and climate from what exists both within the Chamber and in society. This is because it is one of those issues that for their successful solution, but above all for their long-term viability, necessary and sufficient treaty is both the national understanding at parties level and the understanding and consent of society to the greatest possible extent. The issue of Greece's relations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, after years of tension and confrontation, has been in the last period and with the new leadership of the neighbouring country in the prospect of resolving disputes. The Embassy Agreement attempts to resolve the issue, the openness and perpetuity of which is to the detriment of our national interests. By definition it is a compromise, difficult, in my view, but necessary. It is neither a triumph of Greek diplomacy, as the government propaganda wants to convince us, nor a national disaster, as the rivals and wars of the agreement are proclaiming. Instead of pursuing the national agreement - as I said - the government initiated the consultations and negotiations and, in my opinion, used the agreement as a tool for serving political projects. First, it violated a well-established and tested principle of Greek foreign policy during the period of post-population in which, at least seriously, issues are sought beforehand to reach the least common denominator. Secondly, it sparked a new nationalist outrage, opening the ace of Halos for a national division that comes to be added, and perhaps for a sufficient period of time to merge, overlaps or replace the division that previously created the account of antimony fraud. In this new, completely inappropriate and unnecessarily national division, it is being collated - unfortunately - by the Civic Opposition, overhearing in unjustified and unscrupulous nationalist acuity. On the body of the agreement, political designs are shaped and evolved, with a glance at the polls, far beyond the national "sensitivity" that are hypocritically expressed from here and there. Those who have shaped our political identity through the democratic struggles of the Left in this place can only express our aversion towards this morbid climate that prevents political thought from being created and shaped unaffected. A chance was therefore lost to heal the wounds of the splitting "or we or they" both politically and in society. Because the opportunity was unique and because of the apparent and intense interest of the international player, as well as because of the change of leadership in the neighbouring country that showed willingness and determination to move forward. If those leading in the new division will be punished in the polls, it is the least. The other injuries, the ones resulting from the division, last much longer. Ladies and gentlemen, I must point out in this Chamber something that I repeat and which I do not get tired of saying it and say it again: Those who oppose the agreement either for reasons of different assessments and different weightings of national interest or for reasons of national emotion - such as large parts of Greek society, let us admit it, according to recent polls - have - and I suppose they all have - our full respect. It is unreasonable to stand in the various graphics of these mobilisations and, also, in the fascist and designed extreme right-wing extremes when, on the other hand, we are dealing with genuine feelings of a large part of our compatriots. I repeat, my respect for the mobilizations is a given one. But I would also demand that those who are mobilised also respect the patriotism of others, us, and not question him. We can't take a stand like this anywhere. On the other hand, it leads us to new, inappropriate and harmful situations for our country and, possibly, new national adventures. We'll all pay them very expensive. As far as the agreement itself is concerned, I already have enough - I think - to place it publicly and in writing. The agreement has a positive central axis in name, which, moreover, constituted a common national line and a central aim of all efforts in the past by other governments: a complex name with a geographical definition vis-à-vis all. I therefore consider that the agreement ensures this and from this point of view is a success. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen, there are serious questions about the historical resilience of the agreement. It is not something that can be predicted with the accuracy of a natural phenomenon, nor is it enough to wish it. It is clear that it will depend on the behaviour of the leaderships of the two countries and the generations that are called upon to coexist harmoniously and peacefully in the future in a spirit of mutual understanding, respect and cooperation in the context of a new reality. With all this I would like to say that the agreement, while it seems to resolve important loose ends, is not the end, but the beginning of a new era, which involves great potential, but also potential risks and difficulties. He'll try our relationships and I wish we could succeed. I shall therefore support with my vote the agreement, hoping and urging everyone to lower tone and stop throwing oil into the fire. Let everyone take a few steps back. Ladies and gentlemen, last week the government managed to get it - as it took it - by subtle individual votes, I would say, a vote of confidence. He must not stay on that vote of confidence. It must realise that there are problems openly, that the political system is disturbed. And if we want to be familiar with history in a sense - because we repeat our relationship with history many times - but also with our conscience, there cannot be a solution throughout the climate, as it has been designed, only if we speed up - as quickly as we can speed up and as quickly as possible - the issue of our country's direction towards the polls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u23	The Government Secretariat sent the list of Ministers. I want to inform you it's ten Ministers. The ministers will first be subjected to a similar reduction in time, as they have suffered, because they had the same time, except for Mr Katrugalos, who, as a competent minister, will have more time. The procedure is now as follows: The speech will be taken, in the order of order, by Mr Excellency, Mrs Karakostas, Mr Pratsolis, Mr Fortsakis. I shall then give the floor, on the basis of the order of the list by the Government Secretariat, to Mr Vernardakis. Here, Mr. Excellency, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about common assumptions. What are Skopje today called Skopje from countries among which China, the United States, Russia? They are recognised and called the "Macedonia" detta - black. How does Greece today recognise Skopje on the basis of the 1995 interim agreement? It is recognised and called the "First Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia", that is to say Greece recognises that the name of this country, which was before the federal state of Yugoslavia, is the "Macedonia" detta - sketch. What was the Greek Government's proposal with Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis and Foreign Minister Dora Bakoyannis at the NATO Conference in Bucharest in 2007 for the name of Skopje? The proposal was a complex name with a geographical definition, which would certainly be the term 'Macedonia'. And who reacted and did not accept that name? He was Skopje Prime Minister Gruevski because he wanted the sound "Macedonia". I would also like to refer to all those who have been in favour of a complex name over time. In 2014, Venizelos, in 2017 Mitsotakis from the Step of the Parliament and not just. That's all there is to video. There is no question that everyone is in favour of a complex name. What's changed today? We are now coming to the Prespecies Agreement. What will be the name of Skopje after the Prespecies Agreement? It will be "North Macedonia" erga omnes. In other words, all the world countries - and Skopje themselves, because they will be their constitutional name - will recognise and call Skopje "North Macedonia". So in the wider geographical area we will have "North Macedonia", we will have "Macedonia of Pirin" and Greek Macedonia. Therefore, the deta - set "Macedonia" will be mentioned exclusively in Greek Macedonia. And it is the Macedonia of Philippi, the Great Alexander, of Greek history. And all this is guaranteed by Article 7 of the Embassy Agreement. Therefore, with the Prespecies Agreement, we have had to change its name by a country - there is no such precedent - we have forced them to change articles of the Constitution that are related to those of Greece, i.e. we have entered their DNA, which is the constitution of each country and have mutated it. And that's something that's never happened before in history. We forced them to change symbols, flags, change names, disappear statues. Anything assimilating to school books is changing. As far as the language is concerned, the official language of Skopje today is the Macedonian language, as was acknowledged by the Third United Nations Conference on Standardising the geographical names that took place - what irony! - in Athens in 1977. In other words, we were named "Macedonian language" in our home. And one wonders: Where were all these Macedonians, university teachers, linguists, historians, diplomats, politicians, the government, to prevent this development, which enshrined a Slavic idiom, a Slavic dialect called "Macedonian language" as an official language in Skopje? And now the Opposition comes after forty-two years, which did not do anything all this time, to tell us that the Government gave us Macedonian language to the Skopje - the languages are not sold, not bought, in the butchers and fish shops you may find - at the moment, in fact, that you know very well that historically such language in Macedonia of Alexander the Great and so far does not exist. So how did the government provide us with a language that does not exist? The government of SYRIZA is now coming, after forty-two years that you granted the name "Macedonian" to the Skopje, with the Prespecies' Agreement to cure your own sins and oblige the Skopje to accept with Article 7(4) that their official language, the one guaranteed as "Macedonian", belongs to the South Slavic language group and has nothing to do with ancient Greek culture. As regards citizenship, the Greek state in its official documents translates the "nationality" as "nationality". My identity says "Greek citizenship - Hellenic nationality", like the identities of all of you. All this is specified in the private communication. It's over and over! Slogans of the type “Macedonia is a Greek” and “We Delivery Macedonia” amplify nationalist reflexes and almonds. Similarly, the opposition on the other side also fuels nationalist slogans. What's the benefit of all this? Discord, division, extreme right rhetoric. Only a left-wing government, such as SYRIZA, which is a force of peace and has within its ideology the peaceful coexistence of peoples, solidarity, the right of self-determination and self-determination, could bring such an agreement, such as the Ambassadors' Agreement. So, with this agreement, the SYRIZA government opens roads in history and sets on them the peace rug, which will start from Thessaloniki and unite all Balkan countries to the Black Sea. That was the vision of the King Ferret. This is the vision of the left government of SYRIZA. In other words, we want peace, peaceful coexistence of peoples and not wars, indebtedness and nationalism. That's our belief, that's our ideology. In peace we say 'yes', 'no' we say to the crabs, 'no' to the patriots, 'no' to the 'hitlers' and to the traders of nationalism, as Lucian Kilaidoni would say. And I will say, by end, something that has been said again as an Arab proverb in this Chamber: Dogs fly, but the caravan goes on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory of forty-five students and students and five of their educational companions from the 24th Municipal School of Ilio. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're moving on with Mrs. Caracosta. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u26	Good morning to colleagues and colleagues who are here today. We are talking - as we have all mentioned - an extremely serious issue - perhaps one of the most serious issues that we have discussed in this Chamber - since this is a really national issue. And that's the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement. Today, in other words, we are called upon to resolve an important national issue, which has remained unresolved for twenty-five years - not to say much more if I go back to the past - and creates problems in our country. At the same time, at the same time, over a hundred and forty countries have recognized the neighbouring country as "Macedonia". I would need too many hours to mention the statements of the leaders and leaders of the counterpopulation, even a year ago, about the name of the neighbouring country. And as much has been mentioned, I will mention the statement by Mr.Mitsotakis to the House on 11-7-2017: "There is an official position of the Greek Government validated by the National Delegation for a complex name with a geographical designation for all uses". This official position was also reflected in the Karamanlis government's programme statements in 2007 and was ratified once again in Bucharest. Statement by Mr. Venizelos, Vice-President of the Government of Samaras, in 2014 to the UN General Assembly: "We propose a mutually acceptable synonym with geographical identification before the word "Macedonia" for any use, in and out of the country." It should be noted that the Prespecies Agreement, which we are discussing now, has not only remained within the national line, but has gone further, since the neighbouring country has moved on to the change of its constitution, to the constitutional review, which has never been negotiated by previous governments. After ratification of the Agreement, the neighbouring country will be called the "Republic of Northern Macedonia" for all uses. However, following the signing of the Prespecies Agreement, New Democracy and the PASOK refused to support it, because we allegedly recognise Macedonian language and Macedonian ethnicity. The revision of the constitution, as has often been said in this Chamber, as well as the private communication sent to the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs, states that the use of the term "nationality" is only used as a "nationality" and not as a "ethnicity", as stated by the Opposition. This amendment to the Constitution states that 'nationality' does not define or define the nationality of the citizens of the neighbouring country. After ratification of the agreement on all travel documents, the term 'nationality', 'citizen of Northern Macedonia' and not 'national Macedonian', as indicated for twenty-five years ago. As regards the language, which has been recognised as "Macedonian" at the 3rd Conference of the United Nations in Athens in 1977, the agreement explicitly states that the official language of "North Macedonia" belongs to the Slavic languages and has nothing to do with the ancient Greek culture and the history of Greek Macedonia. And remember the statements by Evangelos Averov since 1959: "In Greek Macedonia the Macedonian language, which is spoken in Skopje, has both grammar and editorial, is not spoken. Furthermore, the Sun of Vergina is removed from the flag and from all public places and everything is degraded in ancient Greek history and ancient Greek culture, in spaces, buildings and monuments. This agreement and the amendment of the constitution eliminates all forms of altruism, with respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Greece. A Joint Interdisciplinary Committee of Experts on Historical and Educational Issues shall be set up, which will ensure that chain references from maps, books, school manuals are removed. There is no possibility of claiming rights for an alleged minority in Greece. "North Macedonia" commits that nothing in its Constitution today or in the future, if amended, will not be the basis for intervention in Greek affairs, including the protection of anyone who is not its citizens. Also, a concrete amendment to its Constitution, ensures support for the dispersion rather than the Macedonian people in neighbouring countries. The Embassy Agreement is final, irrevocable and is prohibited from being amended, and is recognised as binding by the UN. Any violation of it will trigger Greece's right to appeal to the UN and then to the International Court of The Hague. The fact that she's unchanged helps us. What would the failure to ratify the Prespecies Agreement mean? It will weaken the role of Greece internationally, since our country will be accountable for the failure of this agreement, as the neighbouring country has already ratified the agreement and carried out a constitutional review and even more countries will recognise it as a 'Macedonia'. The most important thing, however, is to strengthen aggressive nationalism. There will be instability in the Balkans and the risk of third-country influence - Turkey, Albania - will be strengthened at our northern border. And I will return a little to the strengthening of aggressive nationalism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The most important of all is our separation from the fascist cultures developed throughout Europe. It is extremely important to condemn all those who are strengthening and financing intimidation against MPs. I should like to take note of Mr Treasury's positive attitude to the Golden Dawn in this Chamber yesterday. I would also ask that the applause he has received from our side, because that is the bet: in addition to all our differences, nothing should give fascism space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u27	We're moving on with Mr. Pratsoli Anastasio.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Balkans have been from an old field of intense conflicts and have carried a layer of burdens and tensions over time, not only because of the differences between the peoples, but mainly because they have historically been the apple of the Great Powers to exercise sovereignty in the region. After the end of the Second Balkan War and the Treaty of Bucharest in 1913, the borders of the Balkan countries were finally determined. From Macedonia's geographical area Greece received 51.57%, Serbia in 38.32% and Bulgaria in 10.11%. The southern region that came to Greece was similar to about the limits of the historical Macedonia of the classical times. In Titus the Yugoslavs promoted the idea of calling Macedonia's geographical area a separate Macedonian nation and formed the respective federal state, along with the retrospective interpretation of the entire history of Macedonian space to support their theory. Tito's policy was tolerated by the Greek post-Greek governments. Even worse, the policy of persecution and discrimination followed by the ruling class after the civil war towards the Slavonic Greeks did not help them to feel equal citizens with the rest of the population. The problem of political refugees, who, as non-Greeks, did not have the right - and not yet - not only to return but also to simple visits, aggravated the situation. Indisputable witness to the indifference of all governments was the books of Geography, but also the maps we have learned and said that one of the republics of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia is the Socialist Republic of Macedonia. We arrived at today, after a series of failed attempts to solve the name of the neighbouring state and, while already a hundred and forty - more - countries have recognized it under its constitutional name, namely "Macedonia's Republic". So, in the face of this historic agreement, which the Greek Parliament is to ratify after the completion of the planned procedures in the neighbouring country, we must stand with a sense of responsibility and genuine patriotism, let me refer to Orwell's phrase: "As long as people learn to think with slogans, they are always ready to speak with shots." And I mean this: this is by far the best deal we could achieve, given the circumstances. It is much better than what all previous governments have achieved on this issue. It is clearly moving on the national line, as we have reached a complex name with a geographical identification of erga omnes. Furthermore, the neighbouring country was forced to change its constitution, which is difficult to do, even after victorious war conflict. They are explicitly denounced their false myth of ancient Greek origin and heritage. The Treaty guarantees the existing borders, and the lie about a Macedonian minority in other countries is permanently eliminated. A deal, however, is a negotiation product. We all know that mutual concessions must be made to achieve this. The hypocrisy of the opposition parties, in particular the New Democracy and KINAL, is evident, because while this agreement ensures a lot more than the ones their own governments have been able to achieve for decades, when the loose ends and abuses, they are now engaged in back fights on language and identity issues. Since the 3rd UN Conference on the standardization of geographical names, held in Athens in 1977, Macedonian was recognized as the official language. It's over and out. Let them, then, leave the escapades and admit the truth. After all, Averov himself referred, in unsuspecting time, to Macedonian language. The agreement defines citizenship rather than ethnicity. Also, it does not recognise Macedonian nation, since no agreement as legal text can regulate such matters. In the private communication the matter is fully cleared up. But I can't help talking about some people who talk about flattery and treason and tell them this: I come from New Artakis, refugee, who felt it, with the Asia Minor Disaster, both my parents and my grandparents, as well as nationalist patriotism. There, then, when the appointed by the German prefecture conquerors sent an alert to enlist Greeks in the security orders, the prefecture records wrote: "From Artaki no one came". On the contrary, they came to the mountains to fight through the lines of EAM the conqueror with the bark cross, which some people today have on their sides and on their body and dare to talk about meditation. And to say this: the Left has always been in front of the difficult struggles of our people for national independence and national dignity. He never hid. I firmly believe that we should finally leave the gray pages behind and look at the future with feelings of contributoryness and good neighbourliness, as well as the generosity that characterizes the Greeks. A great deal will be decided in the implementation of the agreement and we will have the opportunity to take a step forward to monitor implementation and improve our relations with the Balkan peoples, thereby depriving the peace, friendship, cooperation and the co-development of our peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u29	Exquisitely, Mr. Colleague, absolutely in your time. The next speaker is Mr Theodores Fortsakis. After the Minister, as I told you - to be in the Chamber - Mr Beyalas, Mr Apostolos, Mr Baxvanakis and Mr Skreka will be speaking. Here, Mr Fortsakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the agreement we are debating has - in essence - been the subject of an exhaustive exchange of arguments. I think there is the issue of the substance, which is of course crucial, but there is also the question of methodisation, the question of the procedure to be followed to discuss and vote on this agreement. I think it is worth paying attention to how we get to today's debate and what is the method or, more precisely, the methodology that has been followed. I think it is a general assumption that such an agreement, in order to be able to pass through, needs a more general acceptance, a consensus, a consensus both in the body of citizens and in the House. I would like to remind you of four points briefly and then say, for the substance of the agreement, a very small word. Point one: everything prior to the agreement. I would remind you of the alalum which had prevailed during the Kotzia-Kammenos era, when the Greek had been informed that there was a debate on the Prespes, without any information on the substance, and of course, the opposition has been kept in full darkness. The Prespecies Agreement was formulated by the Greek Government individually, however, without the creation of a necessary national line. That's unprecedented. Never before had such an important issue led the government to act on its own. It was always preceded by a Council of Political Heads, as had been done in 1992, and as was done in 2004 for the Cyprus issue. In any case, there has always been agreement between the main political forces, while in addition the talks have always been transparent, in the sense that there was an update of the Anti-Population, not in secret negotiations on individual persons or parties' opinions. This bishop policy, unfortunately, has been followed by the government for this agreement. Point two: what was done in the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs of the House. There we have all seen it: there have been manipulations that do not have precedents in our area. SYRIZA had twenty-seven of the fifty-fifth Members of the committee, that is to say he lacked one vote to have a majority. So what did he do? The President at first decided to pay the place himself by declaring Mr Dannelly and when the New Democracy denounced this unprecedented parliamentary diversion, the President again did something he had no precedent. He made a draw for two posts which included only three independent MPs, both of whom were in favour of the agreement. So, whatever the result of the draw, the government found a lacking willingness and all this rather than an open invitation to the sixteen independent MPs to state who they wish to participate. In fact, in order to avoid this unprecedented manoeuvre, Mr Amyras was bypassed, who expressly stated in his letter that he wanted to participate in the draw. Why was he overreacted? Because it was against the agreement. Point 3: The Greek Government has not brought the definitive, revised and codified constitution of Skopje into Parliament as part of the ratification of the agreement. Members are only invited to put them in the relevant amendments. We have constantly called for the full text, as has been revised, to be made available, together with the amendments and the preamble. Unfortunately, this has not been done so far and the text that has been tabled is the text of the constitution, as it seems on the Internet, without integrating any of the things we should be discussing today. I would remind you that the amendments which have been tabled, and in particular the first one, show that there is a reference to the change of name there, but it shows that there is no such reference in the others. I would remind you that in the private communication that has been tabled it is referred to 'the Macedonian people'. In simple terms, the constitutional review in Skopje, which should have been completed so far, does not seem to have been completed, because this is a sign of the agreement we have made with the government of Skopje. It seeks essentially to integrate Skopje into NATO without completing the constitutional amendment, which they have undertaken to carry out. It is unprecedented to discuss in this House a text which we do not know how it is finally formatted. I am talking about both the text and its preamble and the texts of the amendments. I would like to stress that this practice is not unknown to the government. I remember following it in the famous 2015 referendum, where the Greek people were invited to decide on a text of which they did not know. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, in a minute. Point 4: The Government has so far not ensured that the agreement we are discussing will be a final implementation text in Skopje, because I would remind you that the President of that country has described it as a treason. There is, therefore, a lack of transparency which is exacerbated by the fact that the judiciary of that country and, in particular, its constitutional court - which at any time could have caused problems with the validity of this agreement - has not yet been ruled out. I would remind you of what happened in the case of Albania. I close by saying that it is incomprehensible at the time when we know that the three quarters of the Greek people are against the agreement, that the government insists that it adopt what is so much of the population that it does not want. It would have been a good job if politically - there may have been no obligation to have an increased majority in this House - the government had guaranteed this increased majority, just as in cases where the Constitution is provided for in Article 28, even if we do not have a legal obligation to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u31	Hang up, Mr. Fortsakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u32	I will close, Mr President, in a second by saying that, on the one hand, we have the good thing in the balance, which is that we are closing an issue that is open for so many years, on the other hand, evil is that we are opening up new issues, which will be bigger. I am sure that, unfortunately, the name 'Macedonia' will eventually be imposed anyway, so it remains the great question to see what our country is gaining from this agreement. This approach and this substance lead me to vote against the agreement. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u33	Minister Vernadakis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to state the need for the political parties, which are institutions of democracy, to be faced with the challenges that democracy itself is facing. The Embassy Agreement we are discussing this weekend has acted as a catalyst in the political system, has recovered old ideas, old historical injuries, buried stories, great contradictions of the Greek state's own national integration. A wound that has been opened before is speculation of the extreme right and nationalist ideologies. In this respect, it is of particular political and symbolic importance that yesterday's position of the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. It showed, especially after Sunday's deflection attempt, that there is a strong democratic pulse in the historic party of the Central Right, which must not be a tool to legitimise social intolerance on the political stage. Ladies and gentlemen, following yesterday's speech, I was impressed by a very interesting and clever abhorrence, but one of the best speakers of the Officerial Opposition, Mr Tasoula. He said, among other things, an argument which I would like to comment on, that in our argument on the agreement we are looking at arguments on the Bucharest national line or on statements by prominent political representatives, such as Mrs Bakoyannis or Dimitris Avramopoulos, even Antonis Samaras. It can't be the old political system on the one hand, it's bad on the other, it can't be a lifesaving of our own arguments. But the old political system - and here is the answer I want to give to this interesting argument, which I want to comment on a bit thoroughly - is old before everything, because it is inconsistent. It can change its mind or hide an opinion depending on the temporary interest, and this is a substantial criticism that is made in what we call an old political system, not in the national interest. The current position expressed raises many doubts as to whether it is on the line of national interest or merely a speculation based on the social and political climate, on the logic of other objectives, such as the overthrow of the government. It is also an old political system - and this is another criticism - because it is ineffective. He had a big problem ahead of him, and for at least thirty years he did not solve it. It's so simple. And, as a ghost, the following question arises over this Chamber: These politicians, who handled this issue, what did they think when they negotiated this national position on the issues that are allegedly raised today as pretexts, namely ethnicity or language? How did they plan to handle it? What did they have in their file? What diplomatic preparation had they done? When they were talking about compromise, what exactly did they mean? Or did they just have any idea and no preparation and today they are simply resuming opinions that are shifting to a spiral of nationalism in some way, finally reaching the last, last argument, that is, the core of nationalism, in "Macedonia is one and it is Greek"? I have seen, for example, a video in which former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras states that he is certain that the neighbouring country will never change its constitutional name and on the basis of this assessment he has drawn up a political strategy. Incidentally, the very same assessment was made by Panos Kammenos, who considered that nothing of what they said would happen, that the agreement would not be passed by the Parliament of Skopje or by constitutional changes. But come on, where this happened! There is therefore an issue that needs to be answered. But I would like to focus a little more on the political position of the JRC in relation to the agreement that we have before us. I would like to draw attention to a number of contradictions, which are even greater because the JRC cannot actually be blamed for any ideological relationship with nationalism or coexistence with it. 1992 was the only party that had reacted to the logic of the rally. It's a fact. And then there was a solution for the nominal and around it that had been the well-known political speculation of the nationalist circles. The question is: did the JRC then have a wrong policy against nationalism? Then there were no imperialist designs, but did they emerge like Athena from Zeus' head, and that was after twenty-seven years? And in those twenty-seven years, weren't those imperialist designs? As a basic reason for today's position, the stated desire for the state to join NATO is expressed. However - and I would like to make it clear here - that the accession of northern Macedonia to the European Union and to NATO is a choice for the citizens of the neighbouring country on the basis of the parliamentary and social choices they make. So there is a series of questions I would like to ask at some point to be answered seriously by the JRC. First, is the general will of the neighbouring state in this direction questioned? What does the labour movement of northern Macedonia or the parties of the left arc or the social forces in which we could express our international solidarity? Even if it is true that this agreement is being expelled and served by the imperialist organisations of the European Union or NATO, the most appropriate way to express it is for us not to go ahead with an agreement, but to leave this country a tool in their hands? [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like two minutes. I won't bother you any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u35	Okay. Don't start the ministers asking for two and three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u36	I'm sorry, I misunderstood.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u37	Good. Because you're the first to make the concession, but I'm making it clear there won't be. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u38	The second question: To date, and in the field of Marxistism, in particular the Leninist theory of imperialism, he - imperialism, that is - is not, in fact, foreign policy; it is not transnational relations; it is not military interventions. The term ‘imperialism’ is described as a concept of evolution of monopolistic capitalism and the hegemony of stock capital. The rest belong to the urban history, which describes, for example, Ancient Rome as an imperialist state. Interventions and transnational relations in imperialism result as a result of imperialist development, i.e. capitalist development at a given historic phase. If they have a dose of truth and the JRC embraces it, then the question arises: Why, instead of seeing the agreement as a step forward of Greek monopolistic capitalism and the Greek stock capital that wants to cycl the small people and their identities, does it see the imperialism of the small state, which even presents a wholehearted eye to Greece? Do we notice that this scheme is in danger of leading to a bowdown in nationalism? Do we realise that it is being replaced by the struggle of the states? Thirdly, in an imperialist chain there are ratings, economic correlations, different development relationships. If these theoretical assumptions are real on the basis of the concept of the imperialist chain, then the view that the agreement is a pursuit of NATO or of the European Union must also be accompanied by an analysis of the role and strategic aspirations of the other imperialist forces, such as Russia, Turkey or Bulgaria in the region. In particular, it should be clarified for Russia, because while, for example, it is opposed to the agreement as NATO's plan, has it been quick to recognise the state as Macedonia's 'Macedonia' as a 'Macedonia'? The fourth and last contradictions are historical.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u39	Minister, limit it as long as you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u40	The KKE from the Middle War had a clear line, as can be seen from its texts, that Macedonian ethnicity exists which speaks Macedonian, has been alphabetically, and in fact this people suffer and oppressed by Bulgarians and Greek nationalists. For this post, the JRC was persecuted by the Greek civil state and paid a heavy price. Today a selective affinity with New Democracy's positions appears that Macedonian ethnicity has never existed in the Balkans or, of course, Macedonian language. They also agree that the recognition of citizenship for the identification of residents strengthens the pervertality and can cause problems, of course, the JRC says in future. It therefore raises an important question that needs clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u41	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u42	It's changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u43	Can you hear me? Don't ignore me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u44	Yes, yes, Mr. President. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u45	But finish it up. That's the third time I've said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u46	Has the JRC changed its position? Has he deleted his old political positions from his history? If he has - and needs to be clarified - his current leadership is a huge political and historical injustice, if anything, since the non-existent Macedonians fought in the ranks of the Democratic Army, they gave their blood to the socialist affair, the survivors suffered more than their Greek partners, were considered foreigners in their homeland and, furthermore, they were never restored.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u47	It is certain that the Communist Party will answer you for everything you have said through his parliamentary delegation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u48	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, please! For calm down, both SYRIZA colleagues and the JRC colleagues! After we said Mr. Pachilis was going to answer. There's no reason to argue and waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u51	Excuse me for a minute, Mr. Tasoula. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the upper Western theory of thirty-seven students and schoolchildren and three of their educational attendants from the 6th Ano Liosia Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Invitation to all speakers not to make personal references, even if they may be a little positive to face, because then they start to ask for the floor on staff, which the Chair cannot give, and so we will be wasting time. Mr. Tasoula has the floor for two minutes, not a second more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna need less time. The Minister made use of my argument about the contradiction of using the government's arguments from the so-called 'old political system' and said that it is not a contradiction, but that we are the ones who hide and confuse our former positions. The overthrowing and falsification is, unfortunately, a sad privilege for the Government. Evidence is how the previous speaker of SYRIZA also used the view of the late Averoff. The New Democracy in 1977 and Evangelos Averov in the summer of 1959, when he met in this Chamber of a bilateral agreement between Greece and the Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia, did not recognize Macedonian language. I've said it, and I've written it a hundred times. Averov used the expression of the titular constitution that spoke of Macedonian language by saying "the Macedonian language, not as I recognise it as Averoff, that there is, but the Macedonian language as called it the titular constitution..." - a reference to this is called in the Constitution - "...is not spoken in Greece". There is no one who speaks that language called the Titoic Constitution like this. So there is no minority in Greece. Because at that time the issue was the alleged existence of a minority. Because then, so many years ago, the problem was different from today. The policy of exiting the Aegean Sea, the policy of the tsars...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u53	Let's not go into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u54	...and the black eagle and the red star, both the tsars, and the communism and the christian regime, were the same. Minorities were a vehicle. And a vehicle was...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Tasoula, did you answer as far as...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u56	That's what Averov said, and he didn't recognize a language.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u57	Good, perfectly understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u58	If the language was recognized by all you're saying, why do you today recognize it again?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Tashula, please! Good. I repeat the next four colleagues because changes are taking place. I think it's Mr. Beyalas, Mr. Apostle, Mr. Baxvanakis and Mr. Skrekas. Here, Mr. Beyala, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are anxious to see - we have already heard the pluralistic point made by Mr Tassoula - trying to distort the truth again, since, according to the minutes of the House of Parliament of the time, Mr Averov then referring to the language and the doping that exists at the northern border of the country told us that this is not the same language as the Macedonian speaking in Skopje. That was clear. What we are seeing is the continuation of a one-year attempt now distorting reality, the truth, the creation of oblivion situations, as is the issue of the nomenclature, the Macedonian issue started in 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much you want to turn that into, the Greek people and everyone knows that it is a matter of decades and ages. I don't want to go into this controversy in my speech. We have said this many times here and on the occasion of the debate on the vote of confidence, where all the issues have been raised, but also in the public debate. So I don't want to go into this controversy. However, I would like to make a point: if we consider the evolution of the whole situation from 1900 or even before, if you want - the historians know them better - how this story called Macedonian issue has evolved and how it has taken the traits - everyone will, of course, have to look at them critically - why our country over the entire hundred years has not reversed some situations. When Paul Melas, called by Kottas, reports that Kottas was speaking the Macedonian, Macedonian, is a first report. But these people are talking there too. Is that right? They speak a language that is kind of called. And we have a series of people who gave their lives to liberate Macedonia. Inside them was my great-grandfather, who left his soul and his bones in Thessaloniki in 1912, leaving his two children, four and six years old. Those who were struggling for the liberation of this Macedonia - and our rapporteur mentioned it yesterday - did not think of such an issue that will arise today, while going to close a decades or rather centuries of conflict in the Balkans, to be the silhouette of the region of the Balkans and Europe, and while going to stop it, you continue to perpetuate these conflicts. How to stand critically when an agreement on trade relations between the country and its neighbour was signed in 1959? How can we stand critically and say that some people have not reacted or not implemented agreements such as the interim agreement? We did not react to the implementation of the interim agreement. However, the interim agreement that you do not take into account came after the blackmail of the Greek Government with the full embargo. They didn't apply it. Is that what he's telling us? We wondered why, until the 1980s, we called the Ministry of Northern Greece? Do You Remember? When did we call it the Ministry of Macedonia Thrace? Is it not our fault that we were guaranteed, and with the cold-war climate that existed in Europe, they said: 'Okay, it's okay, let's be collected as they want'? All this created a situation. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue is that there is a great deal of hypocrisy, a great deal of hypocrisy in the management of the issue and it is purely for voting reasons. It is not here in this House that when we are in our debates between us, our debates and your own reports, and many colleagues, say 'good deal', but from the Step forward, do not dare to say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u61	What's the lie? But are we saying in and out? What are we? SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u62	I didn't talk personally. My personal appreciations are. It's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u63	Mrs Karamanlis, she didn't report personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u64	It is not possible to hear two lines from New Democracy, one which gives more weight to handling and one which has its ears closed, eyes with blinkers and says 'we accept nothing'. Those who put particular emphasis on the handling, that is, if the manoeuvres were somewhat different, so it would be a good deal. And because time is too short and I want to close, I want to highlight something. Yesterday, in your rapporteur's speech, there were fewer than half of the Members of the New Democracy. I was given a special impression, and I wanted to mention it. Ladies and gentlemen, two words about the language. You say that we grant the language, that is, the language that is Slavic, their own. We're giving them the Slavic language. Is that what you imply that Alexander the Great and the ancient Macedonians spoke Slavic? Are you saying that we grant ethnicity, that is, the ancient Macedonians were not ethnic Greeks, such as the Thessalians, such as the Continentians, like the Peloponnesians? What were Slaves? With this, you say that we are giving them something that the agreement says is slavic and you say that we are giving it to them. Slavic language was spoken by the ancient Macedonians? The deal starts a new era in the Balkans. We must give our forces, because it is an agreement not forced but willingly implemented and long-lived, to work towards the peaceful coexistence of these peoples, the co-development and the good and peaceful livelihood between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, twenty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the "Chrysostomos Smyrna". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We continue with Mr. Evangelos Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, I understand your difficulties to admit that the government which you have been questioning since the first time, a few days after the vote of confidence it has taken, is asking you today - and it will take a vote on a national issue that you have not even been able to touch. It is a government that has led the country to normality, which has succeeded in not even applying commemorative obligations such as the pension cut, which will proceed in the next few days and in new arrangements for the relief of the Greek citizen from the consequences of the crisis. The government has also managed to resolve a national issue that has troubled us for decades. The only thing you did in the years that you had the government responsibility was either counting how many countries, one after the other, recognized the Contracting country called "Macedonia", or looking at the international fora and the meetings if the label in front of the representative wrote "First Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia" or "Macedonia". We, with the agreement we reached, did not only take the so-called national line of the dual name for all uses, which was shaped in 2008 in Bucharest and accepted it by all your subsequent governments, but we went further than that. We have come to force the other side to accept this national line by amending its constitution. There is no such precedent in world history in similar agreements. You have no arguments, ladies and gentlemen, to support your refusal. They have modified their constitution and you are asking for a change in the process of integrating the changes. But elsewhere, it's your problem. You cannot think that a Left came today, which did not give it any room for governance beyond six months, not only to take the country out of the memorials but also to resolve such a serious national issue that had laid down so many years. All agreements, including those following the war conflicts, contain some compromises. We didn't give anything. On the other hand, we have received a lot, although we have found ourselves in the face of situations which led to a fait accompli, which even led to the monopolies of the name 'Macedonia'. I imagine how you would feel the next day of the Skopje Parliament's decision to accept the double name when you saw all the international media being entitled 'North Macedonia'. The agreement leaves no room for the development of corrosion tendencies for acceptance of the dual name and you saw that not only does it not allow the development of arrogatory trends and the recognition of Macedonian ethnicity, but also of the Slavomacedonian language. Our neighbors not only recognize that they have nothing to do with ancient Greek Macedonia but also withdraw everything that is related to the historical heritage of the region. It is also clear that the term 'nationality' is used as a 'nationality' and not as a 'nationality', as you claim. Citizenship does not determine the nationality to which the citizens of a country belong. In terms of language, it is explicit that it belongs to the group of southern Slavic languages and has nothing to do with ancient Greek culture. But, beyond that, you do not see the most important thing that with this agreement we are neutralising any attempt to influence the country's course, the region in general, on the Turkish side. You do not see that this agreement comes our country in a hegemony position in the wider region of the Balkans. You do not see how much the role of Macedonia and Thrace is being upgraded to a regional economic hub, with what this implies for our investment in the neighbouring country, in our exports and in all economic activities in the wider region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, your problem is that all this is happening with a left-wing government. And the worst part is for you that you cannot invoke your patriotism, because above all, this agreement is primarily patriotistic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u67	We shall proceed as follows, so that other colleagues can prepare themselves: Mr Baxvanakis, Mr Skrekas, Mr Igoumenides, Mrs Theopevtou, Mr Salmas, will speak. Then I will give the floor to the State Secretary for the Interior, Mr Catherine Notopoulou. Here, Mr. Baxvanakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, the National Representation has been experiencing historic moments, as we are called upon to resolve a problem that has been afflicting the country for decades. Does the agreement cover the national line, which has been engraved for over a decade and has been closely followed by all the governments of these years? What's the national line? Complex name by geographical determination, compared to all. Is that the deal? It's for all three. So the main issue of our people, Macedonia, is over. Are the new Republic and its 'urban', the remaining PASOK, still in line with the national line, still supporting the composite name? Why does Mr Mitsotakis refrain from saying that, why did he refuse to enter into a television dialogue with the Prime Minister? That you're supporting the national line, you're telling the rallys you're participating in? You tell the people who say, "Macedonia is one and it's Greek"? It's one and it's Greek? Are you asking for a review of the story, ladies and gentlemen? Are you asking for a revision of the Bucharest Treaty? Are you asking for a reunification of the border in the Balkans? Do you have allytrointestinal thoughts? Are there Greek MPs who think so? What else did the deal work? Neighbourhood to change its constitution. Is it customary for a neighbouring country to force another to change constitution and, indeed, in a time of peace? To imagine the vice versa, that is, the agreement provided for and forced Greece to change its constitution. Think how humiliating that would seem to us. Greece doesn't do it. We have forced the neighbours to change their constitution. So we have achieved everything that the national line and much more. What are these? Article 3. ‘The existing borders are lasting and inviolable’. Finally, any expansional views. Article 4. ‘The Parties undertake not to make and not to allow supranational declarations’. That is no more than an intent for altruism. Article 8. "The neighbouring state changes the names of infrastructure, roads, airports, monuments, public buildings, which may imply ancient Greek history." You're not allowed to use the star of Vergina. A committee has already been set up to examine school manuals and remove any suspicions of altruism there are in them. So the agreement has succeeded not only in the national line, but much more than all of you have expected, you simply do not have the courage to say publicly what many of you have mentioned in our private debates. But there is one disadvantage: the Left has been achieved by SYRIZA, Tsipras has succeeded. So you should have invented pretexts to question her. And you found it! 'We give', he says, 'language and nationality'. Yes, sir! What does the language deal say? Repeats language, as recognised by the Third UN Conference, which - irony of history! - this conference took place in Athens in 1977. Do you remember who was Prime Minister of Greece then? The late Constantine Karamanlis. Do you have anything to add to the then Prime Minister? The agreement therefore repeats what was decided in 1977 in the UN, but adds certain things, namely that this language belongs to the southern Slavic languages, it is therefore Slavic and has nothing to do with ancient Greek culture, history, culture and heritage of ancient Greek Macedonia. So is what is currently in force or what is provided for in the agreement? Let citizens be judged. Your second squabble is that we give ethnicity. Of course, no international agreement determines ethnicity. Ethnicity is a matter of citizens' self-determination. No one's gonna tell anyone else what ethnicity it belongs to, it's gonna determine it on its own. The agreement defines citizenship as it refers to the private communication of the neighbouring State to the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs, stating that the word ‘nationality’ refers exclusively to citizenship and does not define ethnicity. Both of you have collapsed for a long time. So we gave it all away. We sold out Macedonia. Yes, sir. Announcement of VMRO, the nationalist party that was running until now in northern Macedonia and because of which no agreement could be reached, that is, the respective party, the relatives of the New Democracy, the nationalists there and the nationalists here. So what does VMRO say about the deal? "The Prespecies Agreement, not only changes Macedonia's constitutional name, but changes our Macedonian identity, deletes our language, our history and our culture. Zeev and Dimitrov rejected everything that Macedonian. Macedonia is humiliated and kneeled. State and national interests are being sold out.' Conclusion: Nationalists are just as ridiculous here and there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u69	We're continuing, like I said, with Mr. Screka. Mr. Screka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u70	You must be pleased at the left, ladies and gentlemen, those who are listening to you. I have nothing personally with you, nor with the leadership of SYRIZA and of course with the Left, but what the political leadership of SYRIZA and many of you, do not express the Left, is a shame on the Left. In other words, it is so undemocratic that anyone who disagrees with you is a nationalist and a patriot. He's extreme. Those who agree with you are right, progressive. Those who disagree with you are fascists. Bravo! You're very democrats on the left! [[Protests from the wing of SYRIZA]] There are moments, ladies and gentlemen, when a Member of Parliament, a politician, is involved with history. They are moments that come to Parliament not to vote for a bill on the daily life of the citizen or an economic event, but which, by vote here, will prescribe the future of the next generation. At such a time is today. And when this time comes, all he must have as counselor is his conscience and of course the public interest. Here all the opposition parties, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA and Mr Ministers, all the MPs of opposition, tell you that this is a nationally harmful, a disastrous agreement, but you do not admit it. Allow me very calmly to tell you three facts that demonstrate what many Members of the Opposition say. First, we have Article 1(3) of the contested provision. What's he saying there? That you recognize Macedonian identity, Macedonian citizenship and Macedonian language to the people of Skopje. And I ask you this: because here you come and say that you do not recognize any ethnicity, what does it mean by a nation, Minister of Foreign Affairs? Is it not a nation of a people who have a common language, a common geographical origin and a common culture? Don't you recognize that in the deal you've brought us? So de facto sociologically you do not recognize that there lives and resides in a nation which, as mentioned in the private communication, is also referred to as a Macedonian people? So why don't you tell the truth to the world and your MPs that de facto you recognize a nation and you have no problem with it? Let's go to second place. It is mentioned in Article 8(5) that you will create a multidisciplinary committee, including Skopje, supposedly special historians, to examine, among other things, the Greek books, to see the reports that have the Greek books of history and if the Skopje experts are disturbed, change them. And I ask, Mr Minister of Foreign Affairs: why don't you tell us here in Parliament what these supposedly inaccurate historical evidence is of paratroopers, which are included in the Greek books that have been taught for decades and taught Greek women in Greek schools, which you have to change? So, you're coming here to agree to condone and rewrite Greek history, as it refers to Greek books, with the help of Macedonian experts and celebrate? Third point. Assuming it's all right. Everyone tells you it's disastrous for Greece and our country. There is Article 1(4) which refers to some very specific steps to be taken before this agreement is ratified by the Greek Parliament. Have you read, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA, what does Article 1(4) say? It says that the second part, namely Skopje, will table the agreement in their own parliament for ratification. Then they will have to ratify the agreement in their parliament. Then, if the second part decides, namely Skopje, it should proceed to the referendum if it decides. They should then proceed to the process of constitutional amendments, as provided for in this Agreement, says the Skopje. Then the next step says that Skopje should complete the constitutional amendments in toto by the end of '18. So, what does it mean intoto, Minister? Completely, completely, they will have to complete the constitutional amendments. And when the second part - it says the agreement you have brought us - notified the completion of the above-mentioned constitutional amendments and all the internal legal procedures - the internal procedures of Skopje - in order for this agreement to enter into force, then it must come to ratification by the Greek Parliament. We have been asking you for days where the amended Skopje constitution is, where those internal legal procedures are in this agreement, which we do not accept anyway, but you say that it is good that Skopje has done so that it can enter into force. Nowhere. You come here, lofty and bring an agreement that has problems from the outset. It's problematic, that's not true. Are they violating contractual obligations and celebrating? Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, will you vote for it? It is your agreement, it has not entered into force. The procedure has not been completed, the state of Skopje has not complied with it. Why would you vote for it? What's your hurry? Why do you go ahead with the ratification of this incomplete agreement and say that this is guaranteed by Greek interests when it is problematic from the outset? In the Black Bible, ladies and gentlemen, of Mr Tsipras's administration, the chapter "Tradition of Macedonia unconditionally in a time of peace" will have a perceptible place and will be very dark. You will have to account for this in future and in future generations. The question really is why you did this. Why did you go to this national retreat? For two good words from strangers? For two pets on the back? So you can stay a few weeks longer in power? And that's why you're celebrating? We do not vote for this appalling agreement and we will do everything in our power not to be ratified by this House today. I would also ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider your responsibility towards history and not to vote for this nationally harmful agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Igoumenides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, 'the developments of the last few hours show that the agreement on the constitutional changes that our neighbours have to make are progressing. Since these changes make it clear that the Slavic language and the Slavic people have nothing to do with Greek history and Alexander the Great, the agreement is in the country's interests and I could vote for it." Mr. Theocharis said this on October 20, 2018 at the Athenian News Agency. Two paragraphs below Mr Theocharis clarifies - I will return to that later in my speech - that he has no debate with SYRIZA about their possible cooperation. In October 2018, he was invited to prove that he is not an elephant. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the agreement is the fruit and mirror of international law. In my opinion, it is based on the national line, which goes beyond. Goes farther than they imagined the people who handled the matter. I would like to call on all those who have handled this issue not just to stop this deafening change, but to speak and indeed to speak under the burden of their historical responsibility and not for micro-party purposes. I raised a number of issues in committee when it was discussed. I will come back to two issues, which unfortunately have not been answered. First, 'You have given it all, you have got nothing'. But a part of what they claim to be doing is basically the same that they claimed that to pass the agreement from Skopje they were pressed, blackmailed, the members of the parliament of the neighbouring country were bought out that otherwise this agreement would not pass. But for nothing this deal wouldn't pass? Did they buy anything for anything? Did the neighbours of the country blackmail about this? Secondly, and I am addressing, above all, the colleagues in the Staff Regulations. You, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, seriously don't you see that with this stagnation that took place in the day, year, year, decades, the situation was not stagnating? There was a retreat of Greece and its positions in relation to this matter. Don't you see that? Don't you treat it like a problem? What are we going to do about his solution? Or should we just hide it under the carpet of coercion? A great debate has taken place these days, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of this policy of liquidity, the change in positions of different Members or parties and political formations. I think that this is not the case in political terms. There is a debate, which is aimed at the anger and emotion of our people, who we all know very well that it despises, rejects, hates - perhaps this is the best word - this political illusion, which ultimately aims to change the correlation between the powers chosen by our people and their votes. That is what this debate is about. Immediately after the vote on the motion for a resolution, the House will be voting against the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of I am watching journalists: "Mrs. Gennimatas, have you promised Mr. Theocharopoulos a position in the vote on State as long as he does not vote on the agreement?". Answer: 'I am not Tsipras'. In my opinion, first of all, let the honourable President of the Change Movement not be concerned. I believe that the political stature and the political diameter of the two political leaders is such that there is no chance of confusing the Chief of KINAL with the Head of SYRIZA and Prime Minister. But not to mention one - one, what is said for those who choose to vote SYRIZA is that their choice is the result of a transaction, it is corruption, while for those who choose to vote for any other party or some of his proposals, their choices are the result of mature thought, a product of sober, unintentional and ignorant reflection. Mr Screkas said before: 'All opposition tells you that the agreement you bring is not good'. All of it? Does DIMAR not count on the political formations that are agreed or have it been repurchased? Why don't you count it? The MPs who belonged to the River aren't part of the counterpopulation? The former Prime Minister, the only one who spoke, has he also been bought? I would tell you not to poison the country's political life.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u73	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u74	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the problem we have to discuss today is a difficult problem that goes beyond bilateral relations. It is about an unstable economic, political and geostrategic area. It concerns an area that conflicts with the interests of the great powers, which over time had their own pursuits, their own objectives. In this context, the right-wing policy conflicts, the proposal to the Greeks on the right-wing side, the proposal to silence, to inertia - and to go through it - and to indifferent populism, with the proposal of the left-wing policy, active foreign policy on the basis of mutual benefit, mutual respect and peaceful coexistence of the peoples. This conflict is causing turbulence to the country's civilian personnel. That is why we have these changes. This is the most profound cause of the liquidity policy being attempted. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, do not poison the country's political life.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, my colleague. Ms. Aphrodite Theophevette, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor. I shall now say the names whole, after the request of television viewers who have visual problems, so that they can hear where the individual Member is speaking. I think it's right to say it. Here you go, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece, our country, is in an extremely sensitive and critical geopolitical position, in which case its foreign policy, in my opinion, must have a vision, a political courage and take advantage of the favourable circumstances in which they appear. When Constantine Karamanlis decided to integrate Greece into the European Union after the Migration, the reactions were strong, arguments against integration many and serious, fears and doubts founded and important, the political challenge crucial. However, the results warranted his choice. Andreas Papandreou despite the opposition to membership, as a government supported and improved in many respects the country's position in the European family, in practice implementing that politics is the art of the practicable. At the same time it put Greece at the centre of regional political initiatives, on the one hand, by inaugurating dialkan cooperation, at a time I remind you of the older - where bilateral relations between the Balkan states were characterised by dangerous tensions, on the other, by strengthening our country's relations with the Arab countries and the Unified Movement, in order to ensure stability and peace in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean. Reactions to all these moves and initiatives were many and fierce. At this juncture Greece emerges from a long-term economic crisis, having won with the sacrifices and patience of its citizens the appreciation and respect of its partners. The situation in the wider region is extremely critical, with Turkey especially after the coup d'état making threats in every direction, the Middle East countries being plagued by political instability and civil wars, ISIS uncontrolled to launch war and terrorist attacks, the waves of refugees and insurmountables to grow steadily and the extreme right to advance in most European countries, taking advantage of the inability of European institutions to give their citizens a new vision. In this sensitive and unstable environment, on the part of our Government, efforts are being made to change political correlations, in a Europe that can and must also change in a sensitive Mediterranean neighbourhood with a broadening of alliances and with important initiatives at international level. I would mention, on the one hand, the Mediterranean Summit on the initiative of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras. It started in Athens, continued in Lisbon and Madrid, with the aim of shifting balances to the correlations between Europe's strengths, and creating the conditions for convergence on common positions and common problems of the countries of the South towards social Europe. Another initiative led by the then Minister of Foreign Affairs Nikos Kotzias is the Conference of Rhodes - on our island, Rhodes - on security and stability in the sensitive region of the Eastern Mediterranean, from the Balkans, from the Middle East, from the Arab states, from North Africa, in order to build cohabitation and cooperation under conditions of peace and stability and to strengthen prosperity and democracy. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, do you remember the Rhodes Conference, twice in Rhodes, how much media did they mention it with a little mention of the two lines? We want to upgrade the country's international role, with what that means to the economy, but not just to it. Greece in the new era can and must be a hub of international trade, a pioneer in digital policy and e-government, an international tourist destination. These are the areas that have taken small or larger steps in the last period, but can be jumped to cover the lost ground. The Prespecies Agreement, ladies and gentlemen, is above all ideologies and parties and has nothing to do with political controversy, national betrayals and sales. This bilateral agreement is a headline, a starting point for building relations of confidence and cooperation not only with the neighbouring country but also with the wider region of the Balkans. After about twenty-five years of lost political and diplomatic opportunities, the two countries are given the opportunity to become an example of peaceful coexistence, economic development and the movement of citizens and goods, taking a step further - all that was divided into them in the past. It will not be easy, it will not be quick, there will certainly be drawbacks, but the Greeks all the Greeks, the Macedonians, the Etannesians, the Peloponnese, the Cycladic or the Thraces are a people that sees and dares, at the same time honoring its history and traditions. Our neighbors have chosen to take important and difficult steps to show us that they want to join us on this difficult path. It remains to us, taking advantage of the favourable juncture, to show political courage and to demonstrate once again that the principles and ideas that have been transformed from Greece around the world remain within us alive, beacons of stability, peace and hope in a world that has recently been, ladies and gentlemen, seems increasingly darker and threatening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u77	We shall proceed as I have announced with Mr Salma and then with the Deputy Minister, Mr Notopoulou. I read the next five names in order to inform the parliamentary groups, those of us who are not in the Chamber. It's Mr. Karras, Mr. Sarakiotis, Mrs. Manolakou and Mr. Delis. Then there will be the Deputy Minister, Mr Papakostas, and with your permission, because the order about when Mr. Bored is to speak coincides with the time when he should be in the Chair, you will allow me to intervene, do not lose his speech. Well, Mr. Salmas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I will recall Anelli's claim and abstention, a capitalist, that "what he can't make right, there's a piece of the Left that he's willingly doing." Unfortunately, this has been confirmed over the last four years and is unfortunately also confirmed on a crucial issue that is irreversible. That is the particular feature of the issue we are discussing today. Often what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen, we may have opposing views. It is not necessary to find a consensus, because all this changes. What we are now called upon to decide, will never change, will be irrevocable and it is an issue in which we should all try to reach the best possible consensus, because somewhere there we would find the best solution for our country. But let me start from something we agree on, because this should not be a matter that would divide Greek society, but it should be a matter which would unite Greek society and the Greek political staff. It is undoubtedly a big issue that has been of concern to all Greek citizens for decades. Should the Greek Government not therefore try to make the entire negotiation fully transparent at the highest political and institutional level with the parties' leaders and participate in all parties so that we can reach a consensus? There is no doubt that this has not been done. The whole process took place in secret, with the result that total support from the political system is now lacking, and on the contrary SYRIZA is the only party that wants to support and pass this agreement. Secondly, I consider that there is a question of democracy in this process of morality and legalisation of the decision, which is prejudicial and I imagine that, as the government claims, it will be overnight. When is a referendum in a country? The definition of the referendum is, when all the electorate are invited to be placed on a major national topic. Even if you see Wikipedia, it will say as an example is a change in the constitution or ratification of the treaties. And if the Prime Minister asked for the referendum, which is something that changes every five or every eight years, then the question is reasonable: why did he not ask or hold a referendum, for something that will be irreversible in what is decided? So, in the request for the Greek people to have an opinion on what is going to happen, the government for some reason I cannot identify it - I suppose, but I cannot say it with certainty - refuses to allow the Greek people to take a decision. And be careful what the problem is now. The problem is that the only party supporting the agreement is SYRIZA, who had taken 35% election. We cannot assemble another party, perhaps half of the river, which is another 1.5%. So we're at 37%. The decisions on these issues are taken by the parties, are not taken by the independent parliamentarians, who, if they go down alone, will not take more than a hundred and fifty votes. The parties nowadays, then, gather 37%. Watch what's going to happen now. We risk minority groups determining the future of the region. In Skopje 30% he said that "we want the deal", and in Greece from all polls 30% he says he wants it. So we risk 30% to shape the future. I'm not telling you intelligence. I'm telling you common sense. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] So, I come to third: Why so rush? I have heard previous SYRIZA colleagues say: 'We have had this problem for so many years.' Who was this problem tormenting? Was he tortured by a Greek citizen? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Listen, why are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u79	Don't have a dialogue. Now are you going to convince Mr. Salma by talking to him? Oh, no! He'll say his opinion and he'll say the same thing. Go on, Mr. Salma. For the holidays, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u80	Who was in trouble? I have a country of two million citizens, five hundred thousand are Albanians, one million are Slavonites and the other five hundred thousand are Roma of Turkish origin and Serbian origin. This small state was in danger of Albania taking over, I heard an argument. It was instability. Who's in trouble? Is the Land in danger of breaking up or is the large country next to the European Union a member of NATO? Who's in trouble to come to the negotiations weak? But what negotiation? With Mr Philadelphia saying: 'You are entitled to be called Macedonia', you cannot negotiate. So the small state that is at risk of instability, which is at risk of intervention from Russia, which is at risk of dismantling, comes the current government to save it at the expense of whom? I know how to yell, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u81	It's a state.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Barka, you have come to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u83	At the expense of the Greek interests. Why did the country win? I asked a SYRIZA MEP at a TV station on Sunday what the country won from this. And he replied that their development would be faster, rail, business, etc. He answered me financially. But I didn't hear any of you tell me what the country won. So this was a good deal? What would be the worst deal ever?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u84	And close with that, Mr. Salma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u85	One minute I've been deprived of...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u86	You've already had half of it. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u87	Why is the deal good? What would be a worse deal? I can't imagine a worse deal than that we've achieved. I do not want to waste time on my colleagues. I therefore consider that I have a bad agreement before me, which is accelerating as factors and foreign countries. There was no reason for this government to move so quickly into a decision that is contrary to the Greek people' s wish, which is, in the end, the sovereign to have the final say on such big issues as this, and which are irrevocable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u88	I would like to remind my fellow Members that the new microphone installation, as you know, is supersensitive. When we yell loud, we don't sound better. There's been an echo in both the room and the TV. He wants more distance from the microphone and I drank. We don't sound better. Keep it in mind. The Foreign Minister, Mr Notopoulou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, Members' announcements, egg wars, invasion orders in Parliament and yesterday we arrived at an arson at the house of Theodora Jakri. The Left and its executives are accustomed to extreme right trabbing. We're not afraid of them. But isn't your congratulating you on concentrations with the Golden Dawn? You legalized their presence next to parties on the democratic arch. Today we must isolate and condemn every act and voice fascist. We have a duty to defend democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, two days ago I heard the President of the New Democracy in Thessaloniki, which he recalled for other reasons, relating to the municipal elections, how Members in today's vote will be confronted with their conscience and will be accountable to history. That's exactly what we're asking of everyone. Each Member and each one choose the difficult path. The path of responsibility and the future. Don't choose the easy way to populism, the way we all know, and let's not hide behind our finger. A few executives from the leading team of New Democracy recognize him as right. Would you like us to remember, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, your party's attitude at the beginning of 2018, to the negotiations that led to the Ambassadors' agreement? What's going on in New Democracy? Has the position of the Regional Director of Central Macedonia played its part today as a neo-Macedonian with populist, unscrupulous and unacceptable slogans? You changed your position from the national line that the former Prime Minister and former President of your party, Kostas Karamanlis, called for a name with geographical identification, erga omnes, for purely internal and voting reasons. Belong with Mr. Djijkosta's neocedonism and behave from your extreme right wing. You made your need an honor. We have also said that the path of populism is very easy. The lie has become your second self. The path of truth does not always bring easy votes. For micropolitical reasons you have come to jeopardize the national interest in both the Ambassadors' Agreement and the country's exit from the memoranda. Let us not forget that the landscape, the environment, the conditions in which the name issue has been resolved, you have shaped it. Like you have brought the crisis to the country and now you are swinging the finger on us that we are giving realistic solutions. You tried to cause political disorientation. This is a cheap communication plan. It is politically dangerous and it is sick, while you know very well, although you insist on investing in misinformation, that the agreement not only violates the national lines, but takes care of all Greek sensations with a crown of this ancient Greek history. So I choose today to address the real issue. The real issue that is the next day, the dynamics that are growing and the prospects open up before us. The bilateral economic relations between the two countries are growing steadily. Greece in 2017 was the third largest trading partner of the northern neighbouring country, while bilateral trade increased by 22%. In other words, from EUR 726 million, EUR 546 million concerned exports of Greek products and only EUR 180 million concerned imports from the neighbouring country. You see, this is one of the extremely rare cases where the trade balance is surplus for our country. In addition, Greece is already the number one tourist destination. More than a million neighbors crossings we had last year that prefer the coasts of Macedonia, Pieria and Halkidiki. In view of that, ladies and gentlemen, that the economic structures of the two countries are different, excellent synergies are offered. In addition, the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement will allow for the approval of funding from European financial mechanisms for the construction of a series of important transnational projects which, combined with what has already been planned and implemented, make northern Greece a very important transit hub. In order to achieve this, however, good cooperation between the countries concerned is needed, based on sincere relations, on strong foundations. There are no grounds for building either on the ground or on the ground. They are built through extremely painful efforts. This is, therefore, the main pillar of the relocation of the country and northern Greece in particular in the international arena. Macedonia is looking from the inland to the Balkans and therefore towards Europe. The ERM is currently leading the effort of business cooperation. It's exactly the NYPD, the devalued one that was all about upgrading you said and only depreciating it you reserved. So, since we have been in charge, we have run the investment law and made payments of 16.5 million investment projects. So northern Greece becomes an investment destination. With Alexandria's innovation zone, we move towards the creation of a technological park. At the same time, we are setting up a European group of territorial cooperation, which will begin its operation in the first half of 2019, based in Thessaloniki and the implementation body of the RIS. In March, we are implementing a dialectic for infrastructure and entrepreneurship. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy MP had become your political shop. He shared some funding on the right and left without any specific targeting, as long as he maintained the account of northern Greece in danger. Today, however, the HYMAT is conducting an active development policy in the Balkans. And that's a new very important responsibility. The question, therefore, against every challenge we face, is whether we choose to function parasiticly or whether we function as the driving force of progress. Today we are taking the big leap in a new era, in terms of social cohesion, openness and perspective. We need a systematic effort and a strategic vision. We invite you to transcend your micropolitical spectacles, even at the last minute, of your political conservatism that reaches the limits of darkness. In Macedonia, in Thessaloniki we are determined to take the opportunity. We dare to dream, we dare to plan again, to work for fairness, because that's what we deserve. We are defending democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and how forty-five students and students and three teachers from the 3rd High School. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I see Mr. Venizelos is here. He had asked to speak. You know I'm gonna interfere with him. Then it's you, Mr. Varlene, before Mr. Sarakiotis. Mr. Carras, you have the floor. Disciplined, as always, please in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I hope I have not exceeded him many times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u92	That's why I said it, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u93	Thank you. Mr President, Ministers, six months ago when the question of voting for a vote of confidence in the government was raised, because the request for distrust of Officerial Representation had been submitted and the debate on the Prespecies Agreement, which was to be signed the next day, was to be described as a'return-free travel' agreement, meaning that everything that has been signed, from now on, cannot be controlled. It takes its way and possible problems, which will be created by signature, will be permanent and permanent for the Greek reality. We had then identified the problems, like everyone, not only of the name, of the Macedonian identity. Because when it is ethnic, when it is nationality, when it is citizenship, when it is citizenship, we understand that there is a confusion in this respect, whose application will prevail, the most helpful, the most advantageous to the neighbours and remain as a Macedonian identity. The language issues, which is referred to as Macedonian, were also raised in the same way. In terms and definitions given by international agreements, explanations can be given, but people do not read the agreements. People stay on the terms used. In this sense, therefore, because I, like everyone in the parliamentary group, took the view that this agreement is not a good one, we have come to the conclusion that it should not be voted on. So, speaking today in plenary, I would particularly like to explain why I consider it a return-free journey and why it will be a return-free journey. So, by reading the text - motions for resolutions, Mr President - it speaks of the finality of the agreement, it says that the agreement is final - I am not talking about the time economy in the articles to which these points refer - it says that if there is a question, dispute resolution will be compromise. And here I want to remind you of something. That when it comes to international agreements, they're not forced after all. If he wants any place to violate her, there's no forced war. There is no force in the International Court of Justice against a state. It will be a theoretical and teaching event. She won't be compelled. So these issues remain, which we have raised. In addition, I would like to say that. This agreement is complemented by certain conditions which, in our view, should have already been resolved. The example of the enclosed state has already been given. Indeed, the neighbouring country is enclosed without access to the sea. So someone has to give her fishing rights. Someone has to give her rights of exploitation in the marine space. Who's that? The one with whom according to international law, according to the Law of the Sea, has an agreement. As far as we know, only Greece has signed an agreement at the moment with Article 13. A question is therefore raised. Why does it not previously be held as a reservation on this point from a Greek point of view, so as to say that this is a sub-region, because there is no agreement with Bulgaria, just as there is no agreement with the Western Balkans on the sea side? We will be called upon to give the sea wealth surplus to the neighbouring country. Of course I cannot, personally, question the right to cross, which will have access to the sea, but it is an independent matter. We believe that these issues should have been prior to the signing of the agreement, even in application of the interim agreement, so that we now have a final agreement. We don't have a point here. And I have to fill in something else. An international agreement usually has the right of reservation. In some articles the so-called asterisks are placed. Furthermore, an international agreement often gives the right of exit or complaint to one party, because it requires - especially the current agreement - that a number of conditions will be fulfilled on the other hand, which, at least as long as I am in the Chamber and follow the debate and the newsprint, do not seem to have been met precisely with the agreed initially. It seems, therefore, that the other side is trying to maintain a way out of any commitments. But that's not good. And why isn't that good? Because an international agreement that does not give the right to complaint to a state, if an international agreement that we have not reserved for, is violated, what are we staying at? The provisions on the law of the Treaties. But this is not enough. There was more need for Greece to retain its rights. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] With these thoughts, Mr President, I would like to say that the six-minute deadline is close. I have commented on the agreement in terms of reservations on ethnicity, in particular, about language, the scope it gives to the other side and the limitation of Greece's rights. I will not talk about limiting sovereign rights right now. It is something that will probably be put before us. But there's something else coming up. That binding is unilateral. It's for us and not the neighbors. I would also like to say, Mr President, that I am not going to vote in favour of this agreement, as is the Group of the European People's Party. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u94	The President now has the floor, Mr Evangelos Venizelos, for twelve minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of today's Greek Parliament meeting are a crucial part of the country's parliamentary and diplomatic history. I shall therefore speak in full knowledge of this fact. Our country had shaped, through a gradual process of our foreign policy positions, a single national line on the issue of Skopje, which was to accept as a legitimate solution to the complex name by geographical determination for every use against everyone. For each use it means internal and external, bilateral and multilateral, with no exception. And the 'bottom-up' is the most famous 'erga omnes', as we mean in this case. This position had been established since April 1993, when on the government of Constantine Mitsotakis, the neighbouring country joined the UN with its provisional composite name until about Bucharest in 2008 on government Kostas Karamanlis with an intermediate critical station the embargo and the 1995 interim agreement on government Andreas Papandreou. This was an extremely good starting point for the present government in order to achieve a solution of broad acceptance and consensus when the momentum would exist. Momentum was for the first time in decades. It was with the defeat of Mr. Gruevski and his perceptions with the formation of the Zaev government, with the impressive strengthening of the role and influence of the Albanian community of both parties, mainly the largest, but also the smaller and the younger. This juncture was shaped by the problems caused by Montenegro's NATO membership, internal problems but mainly by the strong public categorical reaction of the Russian Federation to Montenegro's and other countries of the Western Balkans to NATO, which are not members. So, above all, we are talking about our neighbouring country and Serbia, given that Serbia does not want to join NATO. This is the measure of the lasting but strong interest of the European Union and, above all, the United States, for the full integration of our neighbouring country into European and Atlantic structures. This interest was exacerbated and intensified - logically - by Russia's reaction that we saw repeated very recently. So Greece was keeping - and so far still holds - one of the very important keys to the accession of our neighbouring country to NATO and the European Union. This was an excellent modem for our country. In addition, we have a very interesting curve in Pristina - Belgrade's relations with the most famous issue of the exchange of populations and territories and Pristina - Tirana where we have de facto federation and de facto abolition of borders. The national consensus that was absolutely feasible and absolutely necessary, unfortunately, has not wanted it and has never been sought by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. And I say today that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, despite the withdrawal of Mr Kammenos, because Mr Kammenos and the Annell kept the pen with which this agreement was signed, which in many respects binds the country on its own because it also contains a latent, new interim agreement that has been in force since the signature. The government's aim was, unfortunately, not to manage a national issue above party opposition and purpose, but to transform a national issue into a lever for internal political developments. He knew very well - and he knows - Mr Tsipras and his Government, that the name issue is an identifiable issue, namely an issue that moves in an extremely sensitive area for every society, particularly for a wounded and tired society because of the economic crisis. He knew it very well - and he knows - Mr Tsipras and his government, because in this identifiable sensitivity he has built his simplistic, demagogic and nationalist policy since 2010. So he arrived in power and led the country to the secondary economic crisis from 2015 until now. And Lord see what will happen in the field of economy until the elections. So he wanted to use the name issue from the outset as a tool to move it from the "sister" co-operation with Mr Kammenos, who was allegedly antimonetary to the so-called new centre-left. What centre-left and even young ones? It is based on the inter-government apostasy of four ANEL MPs and Ms Papakostas. These are the parliamentary foundations of Mr Tsipras' new central left. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] He did not care about the identity of Macedonia, but about the false identity of the so-called new centre-left. Who? Under the rule of SYRIZA, with willing tails, willing escorts to the late decade of his government service. So we have before us the real weighting of national interests. We have a foreign policy, which is conducted in terms of micro-party feasibility on the one hand, without protecting the country's legitimate interests, and on the other hand we have major issues of national interest, the protection of democracy, the rule of law, the independence of justice, we have the problem of the imperfection of parliamentary and democratic order. The weighting is clear, clear and necessary. We must protect the functioning of the institutions, the democratic and parliamentary and legal status of the Hellenic Republic. Our attitude - and my own personally - has strengthened the country's negotiating position since the start. We have told them at events and, above all, at a public event of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs together with Mr. Kotzias in the presentation of Nikos Merjus' book. But you remember what I said from the Step that, when the incredible Macedonia of Iliden came to the public, which was the epitome of aluterism. And you remember that the Revision of the Constitution not as a substitute for international law but as proof of the compliance of its neighbours with international law, also imposed it on it by its sober and creative voices, because this had been done in 1995. The interim agreement has led to a series of revisions to our neighbour's constitution. The main issue remains to be the validity of international law. And since, in fact, there are ambiguities, doubts, retreats, non-respect for all the conditions relating to the revision of the constitution, and because I see a majority as to the ratification of the Treaty, I say - to know this - that the next governments and to be recorded in the minutes of this House - that our neighbouring country cannot rely on internal provisions, as the Vienna Treaty says - this is an explicit provision of Article 27 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties - it cannot even invoke its national constitution in order to remove from obligations explicitly arising from international law. However, this could not be left to us as an open problem, as a wound to the national Parliament, because it was, because of the momentum and the correlation I have explained, perfectly possible, the agreement actually provides for a complex name for all uses of 'erga omnes' rather than a double name. Because Article 7, which is the fatal provision next to the composite name "North Macedonia", allows the use of the terms "Macedonian", "Macedonian" and "Macedonian" by the narrative and ideological use of the history that the second part of the Convention wants. And, of course, it could - and, as is the case in all countries - citizenship - I accept that 'nationality' is citizenship, the external aspect of citizenship, we see this very well in the United Kingdom which has a 'nationality' but many forms of 'citizenship' - must be north-eastern. And the clarifications of the financial communication were requested and imposed by the Albanians, while the Greek Government had to ask and enforce them. And so is the language because they are interested in Albanians using the Albanian language. The other language is not the language of their state, it is the language of the Slavic community, the majority. So it's a Macedonian or Macedonian, as we called it in all the critical censuses. So I don't want to talk about the narratives. I accept the best interpretation of Article 7 that they give up the exarchism and the vindication of the ancient Greek heritage, but take the historical account of the medieval and younger years, which is the critical one, because it is the one that has ejections so far. So the government did not want national consensus from political opponents. He only wanted supportive, applause and tails. He wanted to cause an internal break in the New Democracy, subjection of KINAAL by means of willing escorts, ventilation of the river. And Mr Tsipras treated Mr Kammenos as appropriate in a relationship of political co-workers who intertwin each other. The treatment of Mr Kammenos is very teaching and warning to young companions. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] The balance of the agreement is, unfortunately, heterogeneous, because Greece gives NATO membership and the prospect of joining the European Union. In fact, the synchronization of actions has changed. While the revision, ratification and entry into force of the agreement from the second part of Skopje and Athens had to be completed, Athens now takes precedence over everything - and full ratification and NATO membership - followed by the entry into force of the constitution. But what did they take? They took the nationality, language and account of Article 7. And, as we have said, the complex name has a summarised version - monolexic - of Article 7, and the full implementation - as the law implementing the revision of the constitution tells us - has a long transitional period which is linked to the accession negotiations in the European Union, namely indefinitely. We have been talking for decades now. And I'm not talking about trademarks, designations of origin, the International Standardisation Organisation and everything else. The financial communication, of course, and the change in the timing of the actions shows that despite the promises of the agreement, the agreement was and is receptive to improvements and its implementation is therefore based on the International Law and the Vienna Convention on the Law of the Treaties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end in a second, Mr President. I would therefore like those who are addressing us and the speaker, and who raise issues of modern patriotism and responsibility, to be very careful. I strongly condemn the insults, propagandas, molotov bombs, threats, posters. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] I do not forget, however, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, your insults, your preconflicts, threats, barbaric attempts to kill characters, which are unrepentant to date, leading to the rape of institutions, such as the independence of justice, where we have unprecedented statements of successive prosecutors' complaints of pressure. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] You divide society in cold blood. You make her feel disfellowshipped from democratic and parliamentary institutions. You always nurture ethnicism, sometimes as his expression and sometimes as a so - called opponent. You're changing into the roles with amazing comfort, the comfort of the cynical political humiliator. No, then, lessons of patriotism and responsibility to us and to me personally!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u96	Next is Mr. Bored, Deputy of SYRIZA and Vice-President of the Parliament. Here, Mr. Bored, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, Mr Venizelos who preceded this step and with whom we have a history of Homeless Controversy at press room - I imagine they were creative at least those - said it all but one. Have the boldness and boldness to give an opinion on the historical usefulness of this agreement. It is true that there has been an interesting legal contribution from the start of negotiations on this issue by Mr Venizelos. But - get out of here! - he's not avoiding the little horizon. And I would like to say here - without being characterized by this speech - that we should not confuse the hysteria story. And because Mr Venizelos raised a matter of identity - identifiable - I would like to say that personally, the reconstructing of the political scene comes second and the first is the historic importance of the agreement. But I would like to say to Mr Venizelos that KINAL has lost his identity long before the Embassy Agreement came to Parliament for discussion and ratification. He lost a lot before I.D.! And I would like to make a note - if you like - here. The ordinary citizen won't expect him to take him by hand either Mr. Venizelos or Mrs. Gennamas to take him to a certain right. If he wants to do it, he'll do it himself. The rest of the democratic citizens will be called upon to decide for themselves on the way they want to take. But let me say now, because there has been a proposal for a direct argument debate to the Chief of Staff, this being the case. I would read a shut-up letter if I said that Mr Mitsotakis was not going to accept a similar proposal, even if the proposal included it in "SKAI" and to coordinate it by one of you, say Ms. Voutesi, who is a journalist. And it doesn't do that, not for fear only against Tsipras as it is called but for fear of truth. I will tell you what this fear is about the truth, after remarkably saying that Mr Mitsotakis finally took the threat - he says - to put forward a motion of censure. And he did well, not for the reason that he avoided a bad parliamentary defeat that was, of course. That was certain. But what, for me is not certain, is that this parliamentary victory of SYRIZA would come through a confrontation and polarisation, which I am not sure if the Greek society and the state can withstand it. And I come to the matter of truth, which cannot be reversed. We read Mr. Mitsotakis' tweets. And if you believe it, if you come from another planet and visit Greece, you will think that here, all these years, it was Skopje that offered the composite name, and six Prime Ministers - he says - refused it. Wasn't Gruevski in Skopje, who turned them into a 'Disneyland' of nationalism, which ultimately imposed the interests of great powers - I say - to call them 'Macedonia'? And when they decided that their interests were not those, and there is a juncture that we need to seize, what happened? Was it not, then, the father of Mr Mitsotakis who tried to solve it, when the country could impose a power-driven solution, but was prevented by Mr Samaras and involved Greece in an incredible diplomatic - and not just - adventure? Wasn't there any other Prime Ministers, such as Mr. Simitis, who insisted that a solution should be found? Mr Papandreou, in essence, has the right, of course, to have his opinion on the manipulations - if you read carefully what he said, he considers this agreement useful. Didn't we go to Bucharest for defense, for hard defense? That's what we did in Bucharest with a certain position. And let us not now come to some serious people from New Democracy saying, 'no, the name is last, to see what precedes it'. We went with these seats. The reality cannot be reversed. And because there is talk of everyone's historical responsibility, I would like to address you - which you put negatively - and ask you this: Have you compromised with that consequence of the vote and if, as you want, this vote prevails? Have you compromised? Do you agree with the prevalence of the 'Macedonia' concept, not from a hundred forty countries, but from two hundred and twenty countries and, indeed, with the responsibility for the 'blame game' falling on the shoulders of Greece? Are you compromised with that? Have you accepted that? Look, we can play with a people's feeling, if you want to be informed with his lack of information, if you want his hypersensitivity. And on that, however, there is a limit. And what's the limit? We must not give room to create invasion orders, not give room to those who have condemned before Mr. Venizelos, whether or not he then tried to find setbacks, etc. Let Mr Mitsotakis openly condemn it in such a way as to cover the actions of those who are responsible for defending constitutional and legal order, to do so clearly and unequivocally. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: we can come here and express ourselves on the basis of our wishes, what each one wants, to prevail. Look, it comes after life and it's tough. And that concerns all of us. We can take examples from our recent history. A lot of things I might want. For example, Mr. Tsakalotos wanted to date Scarlett Johanson and ate his life's turtle pie! A lot we may want, but it is a matter of what the country can get distracted. And you know, after all, what's your difference, at least as I take it? It's what country we want. I would personally tell you that I envision a country which is not surrounded by enemies everywhere and that we build enemies of those who can have them creatively. Anyone who does this - unwittingly of him - degrades the real danger, which is one and knows him: with our unforeseen and stubborn neighbour to the east. And it undermines not only the importance of risk, but also the means to cope with this risk and to move forward, towards the future, with a different perspective for the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Vice President, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u99	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to point out something at this point. Once the President of Cyprus, Mr Anastasiades, told me: 'I wish the Cyprus issue was also a name'. I say that in political confrontation everything has a limit. I do not think anyone has the backs to raise a national division. We did not negotiate with Skopje after a war, we were the winners and we imposed them what they should sign. There has been a promotional compromise of interests for the country. And I believe that this story will justify it sooner than you expect, and when it stands, it will be a dala noon!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the request to apply the six-minute decision, because otherwise we will again limit the time for Members, and that is not right. Mr Sarakiotis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor. I repeat the request for six minutes. If we reach seven minutes, we won't win anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing historic moments that will determine the future of our country as a pillar of stability and peace in Southeast Europe. Today we are called upon to choose between a contoured and isolated Balkan province and an extroverted Greece, which will look with dynamism and confidence in its neighbourhood. The Embassy Agreement forms part of a comprehensive effort to achieve this strategic objective by resolving an pending decades, which was born and gigantic because of the continuing refusal and weakness of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK to assume historical responsibilities, possibly at a short-term political cost, but always with a view to the long-term national interest. Where did your decades of ostrichism lead, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response? Tell us what the country has won for the past twenty-seven years. We have arrived, on your sole responsibility, in a situation where more than two thirds of the international community's states recognize the neighbour with its prior constitutional name, namely "Macedonia" as a "Macedonia", leaving, at the same time, an area of historical blossoming of Greeks on the mountains of third countries. I'm going to turn you back a little, into "blammer" moments, when the New Democracy was teaching global diplomacy! I would remind you what the Greek newspapers wrote when your lack of strategy led to national defeats, for example, when in November 2004 the United States of America recognized the neighbouring country as 'Macedonia' as a 'Macedonia'. Then, of course, you were still living in the echo of the Olympic Games and you obviously did not have time to deal with Macedonia. So let us remember the papers of November 5, 2004. Journal "NATION": "Share from Bush. Karamanlis hid. Lost. The government ignored the moves that showed the conspiracy of American-Skopje." Official Journal of the European Union: 'Shok after inertia. When Karamanlis sent congratulations, Bush recognized Macedonia. CITY PRESS Journal of your current MEP George Kyprsu: "The recognition of the state of Skopje by the US under their constitutional name “Macedonia” has been made under conditions that give rise to justified reflection on the efficiency of the Government of Karamanlis". Then obviously, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you forgot Paul Mula and remembered him in 2019! Evidently you are filled with national pride, your above-mentioned achievements. Absence of strategy, fearful news, avoid taking responsibility and ultimately lack of leadership. The leadership, which would not be the chief concern for party survival and so-called "consistency of the party" but the safeguarding of our rights, has been developed. After all this, you come today to criticise us, colluding and matched with extreme right-wing elements, which only have to answer to Greek history. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in peace a country is forced to change its name and provisions of its constitution because it wants and seeks to do so in another country. As unbelievable as Mr Samaras thought it would be such a possibility, this agreement is done and you must recognise it. The name is changed from "Macedonia" to "North Macedonia" against all, as required by the national line. And because there are many different interpretations about this, I call on those who wish to refer to the programme statements by the six Prime Ministers, to whom Mr Mitsotakis has been publicly referred. At the same time, all kinds of fishing, such as the one on protection of Macedonian minorities, are being eliminated. Subsequently, any statue or symbol that invokes the tradition of ancient Macedonia is withdrawn from the neighbouring country. Finally, Article 7 states that the language of the neighbours belongs to the South-Slavish group of languages. People oppose: "Yes but why should it be called Macedonian?" Let them seek responsibilities in the right-wing ideological mentor, Evangelos Averov, and in his positions on the 'Macedonian' language in 1959, as well as at the UN Conference in Athens - tragic irony! - 1977 on the government of the country of Constantine Karamanlis. You probably preferred the krone for Alexander the Great and that their language has been paid down in the ancient Macedonian. In these flaws you have led us with your passive attitude, and that is what we have managed to correct. As far as citizenship is concerned, try to study and do not count behind each other’s extreme right-wing spike. Mr. Kotzias said it in detail from this step. For example, when we talk about European citizenship, what we mean. You can understand that it is a legal term, which does not overlap with the identifiable ontology, that is, one of the populations belongs to the Slavic tribes, the other to Albanians, the other to Greeks. These population groups are ethnic groups that make up the Macedonian geographical area. In terms of defending our sovereign rights, we must resolve issues and stop hiding them under the carpet. See what happens with all the unsolved international conflicts. Time works in favor of established situations and in our case the correlations are vague, with the entire international community calling the neighbouring state "Macedonia". Before the hundred states become two hundred, let us make sure that we stand up to the circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr Sarakiotis, and the consistency in time. Mrs Manolakos, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for six minutes. Please, Mrs Manolakou, keep the six minutes as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u103	With your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u104	No tolerance because then everyone asks for tolerance, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u105	Is the Ambassadors' Agreement a bilateral arrangement between FYROM and Greece, as the government presents, and cover the other parties, to resolve an issue that arose after Yugoslavia's break-up by the murderous American machine? The facts are answering and revealing. NATO summit decided to give FYROM its green light to NATO. This objective therefore sets out the content and timetable of the agreement. It is also confirmed by the following. A referendum on FYROM with the question: Are you in favour of joining the European Union and NATO, accepting the Agreement between the "Democracy of Macedonia" and the Hellenic Republic? The abstention large in 63% that made it void. It was, however, legalised by NATO and the European Union despite its reactions and doubts. The follow-up to their parliament. Amid complaints and revelations about the oath of pressures, blackmails and takeovers of Members with an active role of the US Ambassador in Skopje, the Zafe government has been approved for constitutional changes. Following postponements, bazaars, constitutional amendments to join NATO and the European Union called "North Macedonia". Do you see life parallels? Because, in the Greek Parliament, the moves of Members from one party to another are of the character of moving sand. Backstage is wrathing. Extortion of Nimitz. Strong mobility of the American Europeans and especially of the US Embassy in Greece, as the report of the US Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirms and includes its objectives, such as taking on a more active role for the Greek Armed Forces and Security Bodies as American Spatial Guard in the wider region, full settlement of Skopje as a vehicle of other arrangements in the Western Balkans, blocking the influence of Russia and China on Greece, expansion of US energy and other industries, displacement of its competitors and, indeed, by using NGOs and media to eliminate anti-Americanism in Greece, with unjustified loss. Is that really inaccurate? And after all, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA and the supporters of this shameful and dangerous agreement, you talk about the boldness of the two Prime Ministers in the two countries taking political risks out of any third-party intervention. The mockery and hypocrisy in all the majesty. In the new year's message, Zafe had the prespecies's agreement, stressing that the wishes and goals of joining NATO and the European Union of a global and fair Macedonia are reality. You are abducting all this, using the nationalists we condemn. They are, however, children of this rotten system. However, the text of the Agreement also remains the seeds of the 'Macedonian' citizen, the 'Macedonian' people and the 'Macedonian' language. These formalities are not an innocent compromise, as the government claims. They are chosen consciously, with the aim of maintaining altruism, nationalism in both countries, which is butter at the bread of those who want to divide peoples and pass their dangerous plans. These will resurface as the various imperialist centres choose their own interests. Consequently, the SYRIZA Government lies, when it claims that the Prespecies Agreement was signed to solve a historical problem, in order to ensure the peace and friendship of the people. Why do they want FYROM to join NATO and the European Union? But in order to weaken the influence of Russia and China in the context of strong competition for markets, raw materials, pipeline and transport routes, etc. These are competitions combined with military preparations, with unforeseen consequences for the people. Share in these designs is claimed by the Greek pluralism and these great works were described by Mrs Nanopoulou and others. That's why the government has heavy and great responsibilities, taking the role of a servant. The Prespecies Agreement was also used for exploiting and American fruit designs. This glory the government wants for itself. That's the way dirty missions are. They're being executed until the end. At the same time, you smell the anti-imperialist struggle and the EAM, even caricatures Lenin, to fit into the "Korse" of the forthcoming Prespecies Agreement. That's what you call realism and truth. We are voting against the interests of workers and development, solidarity, peace and common struggle of the peoples. We reveal the dangerous nature of imperialist antagonisms and targets, the pursuits of the bourgeoisie, which put their seal on the Prespecies Agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u106	Please, Mrs Manolakou!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u107	I shall conclude, Mr President. At the same time we call on the Greek people to strengthen their opposition to NATO's imperialist plans, a dangerous factor of destabilisation and insecurity, but also to the European Union, inviting the people to strengthen and fight counter-attack to overthrow capitalist barbarism, which gives rise to nationalism, hatred, competition, war, refugee, poverty and misery.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u108	Thank you. The MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Delis, has the floor for six minutes, just like the ministers. Everyone has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u109	In order to express the agreement, the government says: 'we have achieved the best', and not only that, but it is also a progressive agreement. And why please? Because the New Democracy disagrees and because the Golden Dawn falls into nationalistic delirium, does that mean that the agreement is progressive? No, of course not. Why do all of them disagree? Where do they focus? Where do they raise the tons? Just for the name, for the baptisms, not for the naval marriage. At the same time, you're not getting out - where dare you get out! - for the substance of this Article 2 agreement, which describes with 'n' and'silage' the FYROM mantle in NATO and the European Union. The question is relentless: Is it true how progressive an agreement can be that implements the American-Russian designs in the Balkans, designs that have so precarious, bloody background in the region? How progressive can an agreement that maintains and nourishes the perverts and nationalisms, with the unscrupulous 'Macedonian language' and 'National' that it contains? Because whatever you say, these alperatorial sperms in the agreement are maintained consciously, so that whenever the imperialists want to make use of them, they will nurture nationalist hatreds, dividing and bleating the peoples, since one nationalism, as we know, feeds the other. Is it in response to these imperialist designs of this agreement slogans, such as 'Macedonia is one and Greek', or are they also hiding a hindrance, as they objectively question the Treaty of Bucharest of 1913, which defined the current Balkan borders? What is different from Erdogan, which we denounce - and rightly so - when he raises the question of reviewing the Losan Treaty? It is a shameful agreement, and as long as the government advertises it, it simply becomes the NATO rally and the Imperialist camp guard in the region. See Article 2 of the Agreement, which is its foundation. There is perhaps no precedent in the global diplomatic history, an international agreement between two countries to serve - and to mention it - the strengthening of NATO's most aggressive, most warlike, most murderous warship today. Another objective is served by the agreement, the interests of the Greek business groups who look forward to a piece of prey in the region in cooperation with large multinationals. Article 14 of the Agreement refers in detail to the areas for which the business groups are concerned, with first and foremost the pipelines, of course, of natural gas and oil, for which competition in the region is bored and even dangerous. This is the well-known deceptive, reactionary fairy tale of the government and all the urban parties that I have been ageing, selling in Thessaloniki and northern Greece about "The Balkans Metropolis" and "Capital Paradise" that will allegedly come with the expansion of Greek capital in the Balkan mainland, as you say. But hold on, because the project has seen it there before in the 1990s. It was anti-grassy and left behind that shells of factories, unemployment and poverty. Go for a walk to Naoussa, Macedonia, see it with your own eyes. Equally dangerous and reactionary are what SYRIZA says about the right of so-called 'collective self-determination', as he says. This is a carabinato imperialist ideal, which since the 1990s has been horrificly forged as a so-called democratic and humanitarianist. What does that say in a few words? It disputes that the nature of a nation has an objective historical basis and claims that it can rely on the nature of a nation on the basis of subjective criteria only, of dispositions and perceptions, that is to say, what you are saying. And if a collective self-determination of imperialists is convenient, then you may also be entitled to a state, such as the Kosovo protectorate. If it does not suit them, however, as is the case with Palestine, then this right is not recognised for the multipathy and heroic people of Palestine. That is why we say that this is a valuable modern tool for imperialists to motivate and revive existing and even create nonexistent minority issues so that then they appear as supposedly peacemakers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Don't go far. In the dismantling of Yugoslavia, this tool was used by coroner, since, of course, the ground was first cultivated by a storm of reports and publications by euphoric Carnegi imperialist institutions at the end of 1996. Who officially smashed it in our country? George Papandreou lanced it in 1999 as Minister of Foreign Affairs, speaking of Thrace. Today this reactionary imperialist construction that hides a clear danger, invokes it and supports it by SYRIZA. Go higher! We are well aware that the majority of our people are struggling and concerned about developments. It is problematic about the critical ambiguities of the agreement. We are well aware that he does not trust or feel any security with the country's involvement in European planning. After all, our fur has been burnt many times by these designs in Cyprus and by the junta.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u110	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u111	So now he needs to see the great picture that only the JRC shows. To see the naval source of this agreement and reject it. To get the message from the cliff of the Acropolis, and to bronze the great "no" to the imperialist plans and the great "yes" to the friendship and solidarity of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much. The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr Papakostas, has the floor. Please also, Mrs Papakostas, speak for six minutes - the ministers are not excluded - so that all the Members can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. I read, ladies and gentlemen, a critical assessment of the Greek-FYROM Agreement: "My general impression from the careful reading of the agreement is positive in terms of a number of points, particularly as regards the description of the lifting of allotment activities, and also positive in the second part where multiple ways of strengthening transnational cooperation are provided for. First of all, it is expressly stated in the preamble to the agreement that the existing border between the two States is international, permanent and inviolable. I also consider it important that the term 'Macedonia' is completely eliminated at international and transnational level. Let us not forget that most countries, including all the strongest, today recognise the country's 'Macedonia'. Let's be honest. Macedonia's name was healed. Everyone used that name for the neighboring state. With the agreement as painful as it may be for us its use as a complex, practically the name returns to Greece along with his history and culture. It is also important to remove all kinds of symbols that refer to Macedonian Greek culture as well as to changing to school books and to the historical narrative that leads to the creation of new generations that are not customized in the use of such falsifications. The importance of the second part of the agreement, which creates a strategic partnership between Greece and Macedonia, must not be overlooked. Without demonstrating chauvinism, I would stress that in cases of such strategic cooperation, de facto, mainly benefiting part is Greece, in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, this critical assessment of the Greek agreement - Macedonia I endorse it. He signed it in today's "Kathimerini" with an article dated 24 January 2019 - and I will present it in the Minutes - Mr. Dimitris Katsoudas, who served as Secretary General for European Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs 2007-2009 and former political adviser in 1987-1991 of Constantine Mitsotakis. Please, I'm tabling this for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u114	So what?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u115	And what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u116	I would now like to say this: ladies and gentlemen, under a quirk, a grim and passionate atmosphere, through the well-known extremes, which I expect we all to condemn in a clear and unequivocal way and to look at from them forward, I must admit that it was a bright break - but unfortunately only a few moments and awkward the attitude of the rest - that of the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy yesterday. It was a bright break, and I must say that in any case this has created an optimism that we can go further, without divisions, without extremes. Today I have come to ask some questions and some assumptions, so that we can all ask ourselves until the night when we will be called upon to decide on a matter of conscience and on a free mandate, as defined by the Constitution - the MPs and not the parties - how we will be placed. In relation to the pathogens and zophus, I read the phrases dated 29 February 2008: "The interests of the place are not served, ladies and gentlemen, with crowns sacrificing the future in perpetual party purposes. It is not a solution to transfer responsibility. There is nothing more important than the boldness of the decisions they offer in the place. This is not a time of impression that harms and can seriously harm our laws. It's time for responsible manipulations. It is our time of responsibility." He was Costas Karamanlis in a timely question from the President of LAOS Karazafiri for Macedonia dated 29 February 2008. I'm signing up. Since then, the former Prime Minister has said that we are not transferring our responsibilities to the people. I say this for those who referred to the referendums. As far as consensus is concerned, I have listened to Mr Venizelos with great interest, and I have to say that despite the first reading, Mr Venizelos' position is at second reading and in the minutes of his positions. I believe that Mr Venizelos has kept from the start - this is my political assessment - a positive attitude to the agreement and contributed with his legal opinions in terms of improving it. Mr. Venizelos, on September 27, 2014, as Minister of Foreign Affairs and as Vice-President of the Government of Samaras, notes that Greece has so far taken very important steps and we expect the other side to take the same steps. We propose a mutually acceptable synonym with geographical designation before the word 'Macedonia' for each use, Erga omnes. Today, what he said, his objection, as I understand it, was that there was no such national understanding. Date of April 12, 2008: "We clearly said that the long-term negotiations had and have as their ultimate objective a mutually acceptable complex name. Almost all parties agreed on this and that is what I have to stress." At the time, Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis congratulates the parties on their attitude to the agreement on Macedonia. Consensus has been given since 2008, the national consensus in the parties on this issue, ladies and gentlemen. It's not a question today. I now have a few questions to ask my fellow Members in particular, because I have already said that with a free conscience and a free mandate the Members will decide. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] You will allow me, Mr President. The JRC has previously made a clear position: it proposes a change in the doctrine of the country. The JRC has an unmoved attitude, which says that we need to change doctrine, gentlemen, for Greece. We do not want NATO, we do not want the Euro-Union, we do not want the European Union. So I ask this side. Are you suggesting, ladies and gentlemen, that I wait for answers - to change the doctrine of the country? The National Chief of Constantine Karamanlis said: "We belong to the West" on the one hand and on the other when he put the country in the European Economic Community, at the time of the EEC, the opposition was calling for a referendum. When Andreas Papandreou came to the government, he never made a referendum, although he said: 'Outside NATO and outside the EEC'. In other words, the question that is being put to the Qualified Opposition, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is whether you are finally proposing the attitude you will take - we will see it in the evening - that the country should change its dogma, abandon its alliances, and if so - if you suggest this, directly say it - tell us where it should move. For the benefit of or not of the agreement, I am not going to make any assumptions at this time. There is a party, the NEO, which is meeting right now and by night will have decided, and it will tell us what attitude I will hold here at least. I, for the usefulness or otherwise of the agreement, will submit to the Procedural Report, which states what the counterpart of Mr.Mitsotakis Christian Mitskoski, President of VMRO for the Prespecies Agreement, said: "The Greek ultimatum was accepted, 100% of the Greek requests were met." These, you know, also involve legal commitments. Finally, Mr President, I have to say the following. Listen to who and when he said "The New Democracy looks at the future. He chooses the right path. He chooses the middle street with no extremes, no fanaticism, no screams, no dialogue, consensual, no composition. We aim to Greece for creation and a synthetic culture." Evangelos Meimarakis, for a vote of confidence and governmental stability in the House on July 22, 2015. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the State Secretary is ringing again and again.]] Finally, the debate on gynaecologists, Mr President, has an interesting point, which I will also be tabling in the Minutes. This is a speech on February 4th 2008. "It is funny to stress that I am and will remain a member of LAOS, counting on the hard struggle given by the President of G. Karatzaferis. Perhaps it would not be worthwhile to comment on "priests", especially when the author of this particular publication does not even bother to verify them. But because nothing is random and 'innocent', it should be pointed out that the life-saving life-saving life-savings of the New Democracy to come out on the surface of the sinking bogeyman will not find them in the People's Orthodox Alert. Some have reached such a level of panic and they do not hesitate to even show their Leader and Prime Minister of the country in abscession fermentation." This is what Vorides said, as the Deputy spokesperson of LAOS on 4 February 2008. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the State Secretary is ringing again and again.]] Finally, Mr President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u117	You've been talking for nine minutes, Mrs. Papakosta! Mercy! Please finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u118	Finally for the Minutes, Mr President, and because I do not want to abuse time, I will submit a post entitled 'They are selling Macedonia See the list of names'. No one has ever convicted it. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as the left-wing government has said, the agreement is not credited. Its agreement and resolution is credited to the country's permanent national position, it is credited to those who have contributed to their improvement and responsible attitude. Because it is necessary for any government to continue the national line from where they left it and to improve it for the benefit of the country and country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, too, but we shouldn't double the speaking time. That is, respect for those who want to speak. Mr Katrugalos, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor to refer to the documents requested by the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Association, Mr Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u120	Mr President, a number of documents had been requested by the Ministry of National Defence. The Ministry sent them to us. It was lower level was lifted, and that's why they were tabled. I don't have anything to add because I submitted them because they were requested. They are the fixed position on the "Macedonian" as I mentioned, and the issue was raised initially by my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u121	We proceed with Mr Evangelos Karakostas, Member of the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u122	As for the last year our compatriots who have been on the road, in order to peacefully and in accordance with the laws and constitution, to protest against the treacherous Ambassadors' agreement, are primitive and unprecedented in order to ask themselves what kind of democracy they are living in. We Golden Dawn nationalists are constantly enthusiastically and permanently angry by the so-called democratic media, the only politicians persecuted by an anti-national regime, we welcome them to the last Soviet in Europe, what is abusively entitled "Hellenic Republic", because neither Greek nor democracy is. And that is no longer just us, the extremists, the fascists, as you call us. They bear witness to the millions of Greeks who participated in the symposia to defend Macedonia's Greekity, and they first met how the Left interprets democracy and constitutional rules. You're a red junta with a police stamp! A red junta that will act, what they succeeded in accomplishing more than half a century before the JRC and its eagles. And that's not what I'm saying, it's not a figment of my imagination. The SYRIZA rapporteur told the committee responsible on Monday. "Our government, he said, continues from where the EPM-ELAS stopped." And here I would like to address the Members of the New Democracy, in New Democracy, who has maintained respect for the struggles on the left for a long time. Here are what fights you honor and respect, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you who spit out the graves of those who gave their lives for Macedonia to remain free and Greek. Of course it will not follow you on the same path, the Golden Dawn, which will continue to fight together with over 70% of the Greek people, on the one hand, to defend Macedonia's Greekity and on the other, on the other hand, in order for this betrayal government of the Left to have the end of the EAM-ELAS. Of course, the betrayal works and the days of the Left have known them for a century. However, let us come to the 'findings' and some inaccuracies that have been heard yesterday, according to which some of our traitors political ancestors, as has been said, have handed Macedonia to the Bulgarians. The inhabited Prime Minister was not named Cassidy, not much more Michaloliacos, not called Pope. His name was Ioannis Rallis, who you know had a son, George Rally, who was President of the New Democracy. That's for restoring the truth. The New Democracy yesterday, indirectly but clearly, transformed the infamous "Cyprus lies a long time" of the pseudo-ethnic rule in the also fascist and anti-national "Macedonian lies a long way". And let me now come back twelve years, on 30 September 2007, when the House met on a special agenda for the Karamanlis government's programming statements. From this step, the then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Bakoyannis, stated: "The aim of both decisions on the matter of the Security Council and the UN General Assembly and the 1995 Interim Agreement is to find a solution that is mutually acceptable, not to perpetuate the outstanding situation. This is precisely what Greece seeks to find a mutually acceptable solution on the basis of a complex name. The Government of New Democracy had received a hundred and fifty "yes" in that vote and among those fifty two "yes" it was also the one of the man who pretended to be "yes" - today the Macedonian man, who, with a great courage, said he would end his political career, but did not do so to save Macedonia, Mr. Kammenos. And if you seem far away in 2007, we'll go in 2015 to the government of SYRIZA - ANEL. Programming statements, February 2015. The Prime Minister states: “It is also important to find, in the context of talks under the United Nations, a mutually acceptable solution to the dispute over the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on the basis of a complex name geographically defined for all uses.” How did Mr. Kammenos react? He voted in favour without any reservation. In October 2015, amidst secret diplomacy between this anti-national government and the pseudo-state of Skopje. Then Mr. Kammenos said he had absolute confidence in Mr. Kotzia. The Chief of Golden Dawn denounces from this Step the government's moderation, and presents a document of the Foreign Minister calling on the Heads of all parliamentary groups to propose names for the neighbouring state. On the occasion of the revelation of Mr. Michaloliakos, Mr. Kotzias said: "The Golden Dawn, precisely because he violated the confidentiality of documents and correspondence, I am not going to call it again at any meeting of the Council. I will expel her." And what did Kammenos do? He was applauding his parliamentary group together. What did the New Democracy do in the face of the forthcoming betrayal? She stated by her President's mouth: "The publication of the document from the Golden Dawn is unlikely, naive and dangerous." So we the unlikely, the naive and dangerous Golden Dawn demand that the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs make public the proposed names of that time, from the Presidents of the parliamentary groups, to see who the patriots are and who the traitors are. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. In conclusion, I would like to say that the SYRIZA Members are glad that by ratifying the shameful agreement today, everything ends. The New Democracy MPs hypocritically state that if the agreement is ratified, the future New Democracy government can do nothing to overthrow it. Golden Dawn, in the name of over 70% of the Greek people, declares that this treacherous piece of paper you will ratify will be burnt, and its ashes will be scattered in the lake of Prespes, because the blood of the heroes of the Macedonian Struggle is more sacred than the ink of your treacherous signatures and the hypocritical prayers of the New Democracy and Kammenos. And because Mr. Voutsis said it is a relief to the slogan "Macedonia is a Greek and only Greek", we repeat it in the highest possible tone: "Macedonia is a Greek and only Greek".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u123	Mr Vardalis, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. The opposition of the Communist Party of Greece to the Prespecies Agreement is well known, because it is an agreement, made by order of the United States of America and NATO, which is part of a wider arrangement that is being promoted in the Balkans, with a view to the Euro-Atlantic integration of the region. This position has been effectively analysed by the party's special speaker and I shall not repeat it. But I would like to dwell on two aspects which demonstrate the correctness of this position: Firstly, several Members of all the other parties have referred to historical issues to substantiate their views, positive or negative, towards the agreement. But if something confirms history: In fact, historically, the area of the Balkans is a place where different peoples live together, cultures, tribes, religions, creating a mosaic, which every time a piece leaves its place, creates turmoil throughout the whole system. Conflicts and controversies were common even wars in the region. However, this situation was not created by itself or, of course, by the will of the people concerned in the Balkans. What has always played a decisive role, which has been the solution given by the "Great Forces" even since the statehood of the present urban states was shaped, but also their interventions so far in the region, with a more recent example of the dissolution of Yugoslavia and the subsequent consequences, interventions which have taken place and taken place to impose their own solution with the known method of dividing and reigning with the cultivation and exacerbation of ethnic differences between the Balkan peoples. Therefore, the interventions of the imperialist forces are the main cause of the problems and in no case throughout the historical route were they a factor of stability and peace over time. And what are you doing? All of you, government and opposition, not only do you agree with these plans and their interventions in the region, but you have been standing and standing in the pillars of the imperialist plans in the Balkans. The people you support are those who are today unequivocally intervening in the developments in Venezuela. The second - and, in my view, equally important reason - is to do with the action of the urban classes of the countries in the region. Of course there have been changes over the years, which I do not have time to analyse. These changes, however, exacerbated the contradictions and competition between the imperialist forces and increased to the full. The Balkans meet important, competitive projects in a number of areas such as energy, its transport pipelines, freight routes and others. However, opposing and opposing pursuits of the urban classes of the region, such as Turkish and Greek, are being cross-checked, seeking each on behalf of the upgraded role in the region. In the area there are vital interests of the Greek bourgeoisie, the Greek monopolies. The name issue at all did not prevent Greece from exporting funds to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. Greece ranks third among the countries of origin of foreign direct investment in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The fourth most important trading partner in the former Yugoslav Republic is Greece. The capital goes where "smells" gain. In fact, of the ten most profitable companies in the neighbouring country in 2017, the first six are Greek. The dangerous developments in the Balkans are seen by our country's urban order as an opportunity. That is why the Greek bourgeoisie and the governments that support its policy, namely its profitability, also support US, European Union and NATO projects in the Balkans. Why? Because it is fully bound to the vision of the Greek bourgeoisie and its parties for the promotion of the country in an energy and transit hub. The adaptation of Greek capitalism to the general strategies of imperialist centers is a political option, which is of benefit to the urban order of Greece and not in general and in vague terms to our country. They break up, MPs make translations based on their attitude to the Ambassadors' agreement. But all together, despite the fact that you seem to be 'killing', you are actually fully associated with the plans of the United States, the European Union, serving precisely this logic, namely the interests of Greek capital. In this light, the Presidencies' Agreement is not a guarantee of stability and prosperity. All it guarantees is the increase in competition in the region. Once again, those who think that the accession of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to NATO will automatically depreciate any risks of further involvement in bilateral relations, take a look at the long experience of Greek-Turkish relations. Our position, therefore, is that the needs of the peoples of the region, the mutually beneficial cooperation of the countries can only be guaranteed by releasing them and any other imperialist associations with the peoples of housewives in their country. The prospect of SYRIZA Government not only moves in this direction, but has chosen imperialist to more effectively serve the interests of the Greek bourgeoisie in the conditions provided at a time. The Embassy Agreement serves this purpose. That is why the JRC will vote against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u125	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational programme of the Parliament "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and four educational attendants from the 1st High School in Halandri. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor for six minutes, like everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, the big foreign policy issues should be dealt with by all parties with responsibility and moderation. In view of national interests and not political costs. At today's plenary session, a historic meeting on the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement, we have to prove it. My firm position, too, is that Greece, and because of its geographical position, must, on the basis of and on the basis of Europe, pursue an external policy aimed at resolving peaceful differences with neighbouring countries and the European perspective of the countries of south-eastern Europe. I have said at the first moment that the agreement between our country and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is in a positive direction. The complex name with geographical identification vis-à-vis all, erga omnes, with international agreement and revision of the constitution are undoubtedly positive elements of the agreement. This is the long-established national line. The fact is, of course, that the Prespecies Agreement is a compromise, does not come after war, we are in a period of peace and as such cannot satisfy absolutely any side. I am thinking of the issues of citizenship and language, which have been debated a lot. There are problems and SYRIZA would have to talk more bravely about these problems. As for the positive aspects of the agreement, which is a great deal, the New Democracy should be more brave. In any event, the financial communication shall specify certain outstanding issues. Citizenship does not predetermin the issue of ethnicity and the language of the neighbouring country belongs to the South-Slavic language family. Unfortunately, however, the debate in our country on this crucial national issue is taking place in a vile climate. Artificial polarization, division, barren conflict undermine the debate, while the machine-to-working of the agreement on micro-party targets sow fanaticism, hatred, division and destroy every consensually shaped national line. Things would, in fact, have been different if the government had sought the consensus of all the parties to the democratic arch. Of course, he had the problem of Kammenos, who was plundering at all times the possibility of resolving this national issue. But this responsibility lies with SYRIZA himself, the choice of Kammenos on these critical national issues. The government has chosen on some points to act unilaterally with little information at first to parties and citizens without the necessary national consultation. It reached a critical turning point to inform the Archbishop first and then the political parties. On the other hand, the New Democracy has swept into an unjust rhetoric far from the national position. He is retreating against nationalism, attempting to win elections. I claim that she will find it in front of her, as SYRIZA found him in front of him the anti-immemorial populism, which she embraced at the time. In this way, the New Democracy will also find this new nationalistism that embraces today. However, an extension of the current rift would serve only Skopje, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, through the de facto monopolisation of the name of Macedonia, hundreds of forty countries have recognized it with its previous constitutional name 'Macedonia', and that is why we want it to be avoided, no longer called 'Macedonia' and there is a complex name with geographical definition, such as 'North Macedonia', which is why the national position has been established. That is why I firmly support a commonly accepted solution, which can turn Greece into a peace factor in the Balkans, to create a strong shield against the country's tensions with Turkey. It is time to solve a problem which has been lagging back for twenty-six years, poisoning the relations between the two countries. A problem that enables Turkey to play "protection games" in the Balkan countries, which are allegedly threatened by Greece, but also a problem that even fuels hatred and fanaticism today. This is a real patriotic attitude for the benefit of national interests in such a critical period. This is patriotism in terms of realism and progression, not the adoption of a rhetoric mocking ears and flirting with neo-conservative and extroverting perceptions that bear the opposite of the result sought. As the recent European experience has shown, retreats to nationalism and populism fuel the rise of nationalistic forces. Let the progressive powers in particular not forget that. Ladies and gentlemen, history records and evaluates those who take a clear position with a sense of historical responsibility in the service of the public interest. And DYMAR takes a clear place. As the European Social Democracy, the Renewable Left, the Socialist international, do. It is a good fact that there are forces and executives of the progressive space - apart from SYRIZA, I mean - who take a clear stand and are in favour of the agreement and it is clear that we all do not support the government, we support the resolution of the 'Macedonian'. We are firmly opposed to the government, in favour of the resolution of the "Macedonian". It is not possible for the major national issues to be dealt with in the light of a sterile bicommunism, where anyone who does not vote for the agreement is considered to be with New Democracy and whoever votes for it is considered to be with SYRIZA. At last, common sense returns to this place. The common sense that we need is more than ever today. To deal with the Presidencies' Agreement with the greatest seriousness and responsibility. Do not stop our country from resolving the "Macedonian" and consolidate deadlocks. To hold a really patriotic attitude. To oppose nationalism, at a time when it is on the rise. We must make an active contribution to building a peaceful Balkan neighborhood. It is a historic moment to say 'no' to a new national division, to make decisions, defying party costs. So let us stand today with a strong sense of responsibility. DIMAR votes 'yes'. I am voting for the Closure of the Prespecies Agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Drasakis, Vice-President of the Government, has the floor now - Minister for Economy and Development. Mr President, the plenary decision is six minutes for everyone, but we will show you a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u128	I'll respect the decision. I believe that today will be recorded, as an important day in Parliament's history, because after intense dialogue and controversy, but also shocks, I believe that, with a strong majority, it will ratify the agreement. It will, therefore, put an end to a decades' outstandingness which made our country part of the region's problem, while we could be protagonists in progressive developments. So looking forward to the next day and the challenges following the adoption of the agreement, I would like to remind the younger people that, from the beginning of this problem, Skopje, as we said, or the Macedonian problem, three distinct strategic choices have been made in this regard since the beginning of the 1990s. The first option was to dissolve the neighbouring state and share their territories and populations in the border countries, Bulgaria, Serbia, Albania and Greece. This strategy, as you can imagine, would lead - or if you were chosen - to a chain of doubts on the shaped borders and inevitably make the Balkans a war zone once again. That is precisely why this position is not adopted by any political parties officially, apart from the Golden Dawn. However, it is common secret that this position, this view, is supported and influenced by parts of the New Democracy area and possibly by other parties. At the core of the "no" of the previous rally was this view. If you see the slogans, if you see Mr. Spiros and others' speech, that was the line. Even the position of some people that Macedonia is one and it is Greek, what does it mean? It means denying, questioning the outcome of the Bucharest Agreement, and thus calling into question the borders resulting from this agreement. I would therefore call it the first line of national destiny, extremist nationalism, which is extremely dangerous, although it is not formally adopted, as I said, by any party. I will be told that 'no' is being adopted today. In my opinion, this line is not adopted. What we have is an alliance of 'no', where are the powers of extremist nationalism on the one hand and the others are the powers of micro-communism, some of which at least want to solve this issue, but before that, they want SYRIZA to fall in an anti-democratic manner. So we have this paradoxical alliance, which is also dangerous, because this is the case: these powers are legalising the Golden Dawn, they are legalising the powers of nationalism and war in the end. I hope that yesterday's intervention by Mr Tindemans is not an isolated fact, but a wider reflection. Of course, it is a wish I hope it will be confirmed. The second strategy was the economic conquest strategy. There must be the state, not to dismantle it, but to infiltrate it economically and to conquer it economically. This logic of conquest, of economic penetration in the Balkans, as we then faced it, requires that the problem be resolved. He's demanding a compromise in the name. It is for this reason that the line of the name compromise became a central position, as was gradually formulated, culminating in the NATO Summit in Bucharest in 2008, what we now call a national line. But it hides that line within it - while it wants to solve, as a capital - economic sovereignty. That is why, as Mr Kotzias has shown, the previous governments were ready to make even greater concessions, precisely because the principal was not the name or terms, but the possibility of penetrating. And when the late Constantine Mitsotakis said "the name will be forgotten", that's what he meant. Mr. Spyros was talking about treason the other day. The traitor for Mr. Spiros is the late Constantine Mitsotakis, Andreas Papandreou, Costas Simitis and Kostas Karamanlis, because they opened the path of compromise, which we today give a certain form and conclusion. It is truly regrettable to see, at least some of them or their groups, rather than answering Mr Spiros and the charges, transfer these insults to us, because we have closed the agreement, we have reached a solution to the problem, which they have either dared not to resolve or conditions in the neighbouring country have not been as favourable as they were now. We need to recognise this. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The third option, that is to say, the logic that we see the solution to the problem with Skopje, the Macedonian, in the context of broader Balkan equal cooperation and development, the line that we have created since 1993 as a coalition then and then, of course, other forces of the Left, have been, in conflict with the forces of extreme nationalism, but also with the forces of economic sovereignty and penetration. Why? Because we see dangers. If we resolve the Macedonian issue, with the best possible agreement, but our logic is that the neighbouring state is our satellite and simply, we need to buy it out or conquer it, this is the best way to preserve and revive nationalism. Therefore, the Left's choice is a national option, not only because it solves a chronic problem, on the basis of historically formed consensus, but also because it protects the country against future risks. It is therefore a position that serves, in the best way, the interests of the country, but also prevents risks of the future. Finally, I would like to say that there is no left 'no' to the Prespecies Agreement, ladies and gentlemen, and colleagues of the JRC. There is no left 'no' to the Prespecies Agreement! No matter what anti-anatolic banners and rise, "no" in the Prespecies Agreement throws water into the mill of nationalism. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Neither progressive ‘no’ nor an anti-imperialist ‘no’ nor a left ‘no’. Not that the Prespecies Agreement is everything, but it creates the preconditions for a left-wing policy in the Balkans. And I agree that 'yes' to the Prespecies Agreement does not mean 'yes' to the Government. It means yes to this agreement. But we must recognise, ladies and gentlemen, those who say this - and we respect it - that the Prespecies Agreement and the conflict surrounding it acts as a catalyst, that developments are speeding up and we must therefore move faster towards this wider progressive coexistence that our country needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, too. Mr Tragakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. On my long journey to the House, I always talk almost out of text. But I think it is so serious today's sitting that I have to follow a text. Firstly, the position of our resignation, as our President, Mr Mitsotakis, has expressly expressed, is our unequivocal opposition to the Prespecies Agreement. And our attitude is genuinely patriotic. But it's not a product of sentimentalism or opposition to the government. Besides, national issues are not available for micro-political purposes. This party has shown over time that it puts the national interest above the party. We are sober and serious about the Prespecies Agreement because this case from its beginning to the end is a black page on the political life of the country, from the dark, secret way in which Mr Tsipras and Mr Kotzias negotiated, to the political methods used, to dismantle the opposition parties, the immoral Members' translations and the anti-parliamentary practices in which they went, in order for the agreement to pass by the House. The quality of our democracy has been seriously affected by this. But we are also against the Embassy Agreement itself because it is harmful to our national interests. It grants Macedonian identity and language and undermines the pervertism. It's not just us who believe that. The vast majority of the Greek people, who stand against the agreement of 70%, believe that you are provokingly ignoring it. It is still believed by internationalists, historians, intellectuals, and even former diplomats. No government and no Prime Minister accepted and agreed all that the Tsipra government accepted and agreed. Why? Because Greece, historically, since the mid-19th century, has consistently claimed three main objectives. Firstly, not to monopolize any identity and all the wider geographical region of Macedonia. Secondly, it should never be possible to appear as a legitimate contender of the cultural and territorial status of Macedonia belonging to the Greek territory. Thirdly, there should not be any conditions for the creation of a Macedonian minority in Greece. All previous governments have been committed to claiming these goals, spending large political and diplomatic capital. We were always pushed by the great powers. Kostas Karamanlis as Prime Minister and Mrs Dora Bakoyannis as Foreign Minister in 2008 in Bucharest came into direct conflict with the powerful government at that time, George Bush, in order to defend our vital interests. You have delivered 'bad and water'. You've done what you've always done since the first day of your administration. You are retreating to every major national issue, against external pressure, in order to ensure long-term security in your power. You have managed to join the Skopje provisionally, whose vast majority are Slavs, with an important Albanian minority, but also other much smaller ones, to divide the Greeks. On such a crucial issue, the Prime Minister, instead of moving nationally, seek national contact with the political leaders and establish a national line, attempted to work on Skopje from the outset. Its main aim was to exploit partisanly the issue, in order primarily to affect the New Democracy, to identify it with the extreme right and to bring it - supposedly - into a difficult position. After he has completely failed to do so, he has then tried to dismantle the smaller parties and form a government majority of transactions and distances. The Embassy Agreement is the result of the political conduct of Mr Tsipras, who, with the help of the ANELs, has refined all sense of democratic process within and outside Parliament. If this agreement does not constitute national defeat, what is it? Even more important: amendments have been sent without the final text of the amendments being sent. How can Members vote on a text which does not yet have its final form? It is unacceptable that the single text of the Skopje Constitution, which is a prerequisite for discussion, should not be tabled. Contrary to what has happened over the last few decades, which, in national matters, has always been trying to secure some consensus at political leaders' level, but also at parties' level, the Ambassadors' agreement is a product of political settlements and - most important - divisional incentives on the part of the government. The events that we have experienced in recent times, Parliament's culmination practices and Members' search for short-term use, open up a wound that will be difficult to heal, and that is unforgivable. On the substance, the Prespecies Agreement is a national retreat of a historical dimension. Not only does it solve problems, but on the contrary it raises new and opens Hail's holds in the area. The combination of the name "North Macedonia", Macedonian citizenship, the Macedonian people referred to in the amendments to the Constitution, the acceptance of the Macedonian language, the constitutional commitment of Skopje to ensure that the Macedonian people are dispersed as well. With the Prespecies Agreement, the idea of Macedonia is moving. At this time, we are faced with a historic responsibility, which must be branded, with courage and lucidity. We are called upon, with the power of the majority of the Greek people, to stand up to the circumstances, to defend our national interests and to safeguard national unity. Tonight we're all judging from history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much. The Minister for Digital Policy, Mr. Pappas, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my position by expressing my dismay - and I think this concerns all the wings of our democratic Parliament - for the fascist attacks that have been taken by the SYRIZA Members and so on. Bastard and Jackie. It requires delimitation from all political forces, condemnation and political isolation of those taking such action. This is a historic meeting. History will record, ladies and gentlemen, that SYRIZA, Potami, DIMAR and other independent MPs are voting in favour of the Ambassadors' agreement. It is the last day of a difficult problem, which has cost our foreign policy. It's also the last day at work for professional patriots, for those who careered on this issue, saying asynchronously lies and meddling during our foreign policy. Unfortunately, while the debate on the Macedonian has evolved a long time ago, the screaming and salting have not allowed much of our people, ladies and gentlemen, to be informed about the substance of the Prespecies Agreement. Here, in this Chamber, arguments and intelligence have been exhausted. The positions changed by the Civic Opposition are no longer measured on the fingers of one hand. Of course, we also had the phenomenon of having the Chief of Officerial Response here, who, trying to answer and distance themselves from the slogan "democracy betrayed Macedonia", said: "No, gentlemen of the government, you betrayed Macedonia. Terrorism’. It is a very heavy conversation, and the Chief of Officerial Response should be very measured when using it, because if something has been betrayed over the years, it is the potential of Macedonia in Greece, its potential to play a crucial role in the co-development of the Balkans. These possibilities were betrayed, precisely because there were lies and a voluntary blindness, which it cost. However, the development of this debate in this House has enabled us all to remember together the life and state of the Prime Ministers and Ministers of the New Democracy who handled the case. In 1992, Mr Samaras denounces Constantine Mitsotakis that he gave the right - he says - to the Skopje to call themselves Macedonians. Where is your argument, then, that we gave the name? So Mr Samaras himself said so. In 1993, Constantine Mitsotakis denounces Mr Samaras that in the Council of Foreign Ministers he has agreed to mention the neighbouring country called "Macedonia" as well. Adonis Georgiadis in 2008 talks about Mr. Karamanlis' ass. It characterizes nationally dangerous Mrs Bakoyannis. He told us the other day that Bucharest was not a high-art movement in foreign policy, but a bluff. Of course, Mrs Bakoyannis has described Mr Samara as a fatal man for the Macedonian. This is your life and your state. At this acquired speed you entered this debate and unfortunately the Civic Opposition, because the Macedonian debate period coincided with the closure of the memorials, with a period when you should reinvent yourself as an Opposition, precisely because the cloak of the euro party was useless, as the economic stability in the country came back, you chose to dilute to the far-right rhetoric and you did it consciously. With a vehicle, then, the Macedonian, we have a very serious New Democracy's shift towards politics and practice. We would expect these days that there will be a clear condemnation of the extreme right-wing extremists who have attempted to enter the House. They were also made by the President of the Parliament and by the Minister for Civil Protection detailed communications. The images are indisputable. What have we heard, instead of condemning the para-state right-wing extremes, of these organised trumpet groups? Complaints, he says, the government used unreasonable violence. Be very careful of the slippery path you have taken, because it is not medical for your great defiance. You see the image of your group in this sitting, which you are supposed to overthrow us. You are at this moment in a phase where the government and has closed the memorandum and passed the budget by a greater majority than the government and will condemn the Prespes and have taken a vote of confidence, without the vote of Panos Kammenos, and it also has the positive measures in front of it, which will give it an even greater political lead. Prespes are indeed a catalyst for political developments, but why? Because in Prespes it is condensed with how each political power perceives the future of this people and the place. And the string of the right and the far right imagines a people scared, a people who have believed that it is a nation of slain and a country that has problems with all its neighbours. In the opposite of these choices and this policy there is a progressive perception and the progressive perception wants a people who have drawn conclusions from the crisis, who supports the policies of fair growth and claims for the country a central role in the region, so that it can regain its lost role and the crucial role that it can play for the years ahead. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Allow me, Mr President, 30 seconds, to speak about the Democratic Alliance under the Rules of Procedure of the House. There we had this phenomenon, it was the place that the vast majority of the members of the Political Council were in favour of the Prespecies Agreement and on one night we learned that the position of the Democratic Alliance was against the Prespecies Agreement. And the problem is now being raised in this party's strategy: we were accused of three and a half years for the alliance with Panos Kammenos, indeed. Panos Kammenos has not put government stability to the test over three and a half years. Now he's screwed with the Macedonian and the Macedonian are identified with him. Take note, then, of a fundamental contradiction, from which the Democratic Compact must be rid of and try a little more if it wants to establish serious criticism of the government. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the Prespecies Agreement highlights the great social need for a progressive majority, a large progressive alliance, which is precisely to guarantee the strategic defeat of the right-wing alloy, which seeks to turn the country into the memorials, the recession and the national isolation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, too. Mr Mardas, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor. Mrs Ahtsoglou will be followed by a Member again, and then Mr Chakalotos will be here. We're changing the show because they're leaving abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the results of an international agreement or negotiation are determined by two factors: the first is the strategy, followed with a view to achieving certain objectives, and the second is the whole of the mistakes, omissions and any other obstacles are part of this whole process. If we do not consider the second factor, mistakes and omissions, then we often lead to developments that are unwanted. Since then, when we had accumulated errors - for example some I will mention - throughout the period after 1945, and especially after 1991, what remained to be done was to achieve a second better alternative. The best solution that you would like, by not using the name, had been lost for many years. And it all starts, I can tell you, from this terrible Karamanlis-Titus saying that on the Skopje issue, what had been said? This extraordinary: 'We agree that we are disagreeing'. As a result of this agreement - disagreement - Skopje was starting to gain ground on the international stage called "Macedonia", with Macedonian language and as Macedonians. We see this even in Greek texts. If you see the Encyclopedia of the Sun, for example, in 1950, which is a very conservative encyclopedia, in the 'Novoslavia' article you will see this map, which I will present, which refers to Yugoslavia and the southern part of Yugoslavia, there is the word 'Macedonia' in the Skopje area and in the area of Greece there is the word 'Greece'. At the same time, you will see the six Republics of Yugoslavia and Macedonia, that is, Skopje, without the slightest star, without the slightest sign of anything else. You also know - and you know that - that we have a 1959 FG of the Ministry of Justice, which refers to judicial assistance and refers to the Republics of Yugoslavia and refers to Macedonia as an official document of the Greek Government. This story has continued and as the Encyclopedia of the Sun refers to Macedonia, which is located north of Greece, we have a set of documents - I will submit two of them - which in the period before 1990, one refers to the magazine of the French Channel Five, circulating everywhere, exactly the same logic as the Encyclopedia of the Sun, and a second post refers to "Atlantic Monthly", just where you will see Macedonia being what the Skopje mean. [[At this point the Member, Mr Dimitrios Mardas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This was the starting point for the governments after 1991 and where the mistakes after 1991 are detected, which, in my view, are also tragic? They are mistakes, which derailed the train at that time and from there on, whatever attempts were made, which could not lead to the best solution. We have the Edinburgh Summit, please, in December 1992. Skopje is about to become a member state of the UN. Since August we know that this preparation has begun, and while at the Edinburgh Summit there should have been a common position - it is a certain condition, which is in the Maastricht Treaty - that what was decided on 26-6-1992 at the Lisbon Summit, which means that recognition of the name 'Macedonia' would not have been acceptable, rather than having such a common position - and I will tell you what that means - in the minutes of the Edinburgh Summit, it is only noted that the Foreign Ministers on this subject will continue to investigate this issue. What does the Maastricht Treaty mean? According to Article I.2 of the original text, it means that the Member States are obliged to take a decision and the infringement of this decision, the common position in particular, leads to infringements of the Treaty, which means that we can reach the European Court of Justice as well. That's where we have the first derailment. And derailments continue. We arrive in December 2002 there we have an end to the Interim Agreement. The Interim Agreement shall not be observed. There are many conditions that are violated beyond the name term. In May 2003 Skopje came to seek an association agreement in the context of relations between the Western Balkans and the European Union as the first Western Balkan state. And instead of the Greek Government coming in and saying: Gentlemen, you have not complied with the agreement, there are incomplete conditions, so we cannot ratify the association agreement, as a 'experimental' we are coming and ratifying the association agreement. It was the second major tragic mistake. And thirdly, I cannot expand - it is a mistake, which is found in the judicial procedure that we were involved in 1994 on the grounds of the embargo, where Greek foreign policy did not take advantage of the positive recommendations of the Prosecutor of the European Court of Justice and the rapporteur of the European Court of Justice, who were in favour of Greek positions. It does not matter that there was a court decision because the European Commission took its indictment back, its accusations. It is important, however, that we had two texts which could be used in the Interim Agreement and had other results. These, for example, are mistakes. And when we have such a pile of mistakes, ladies and gentlemen, anywhere on the planet we cannot catch the best solution we want in the context of our strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr Marda. The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Ahtsoglou, has the floor. Please, Mrs. Ahchioglu, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is now being called upon to ratify the Prespecies Agreement, an agreement on the result of a multi-month negotiation, which is finally closing an open wound, a historic stain, which has troubled both countries and our country for more than twenty-six years. The two - three arguments put forward by those who refuse the agreement have already been answered and restructured, I think, by many Members who have spoken in this Chamber: both the argument regarding ethnicity, for which no reason does the agreement - could, moreover, be according to international law - as well as the issue of language, as well as the question of Greek cultural heritage and history, which is fully protected in a clear and unequivocal manner by the agreement. I shall therefore not dwell on these arguments and because they have been degraded, but because, in my opinion, these arguments are only pretexts which attempt to shave the political substance that lies elsewhere. Ladies and gentlemen, in the large, historical areas, it is a lie that there is unanimity and unity. And that is because always the maintenance forces, the maintenance of the existing situation, will embed the legs. They'll call not to change anything, they'll shake the finger in the future "predicting calamity," they'll invite us to leave things as they are. Let openness remain, let the world move on, and we will find our answers to the safe haven of our national greatness. History, however, only goes through the constant opposition of the old world who dies and the new world who strives to be born. Those who oppose the Prespecies Agreement, while they have been informed of its content, have made their choices. They want a Greece fearful, a Greece enclosed, which will feed on the readys of the glorious past and will be weak to write its own story about its future. And such a attitude is numerously dangerous. The Balkans did not get the honourable title of Europe's barium at random. Because in this corner of the world, to which we belong, the riches of traditions, origins, languages have been a timeless vow and a curse. Happiness, because through this osmosis significant achievements have emerged in the arts, letters, sport, culture, but also in the curse, because in every place there have always been those who, for their own benefit, have sought to sow hatred and dissent, against their adversaries, against those who, over time, can divide their language, origin, religion, but were coexistent, live together harmoniously. This was the curse that gave birth to and the horror of civil wars, the strife, the emergence of nationalisms since the early 1990s. So today, those who - although they know, I repeat - deny it the content of the Prespecies Agreement, choose, with their attitude, to start a new period of nationalist upheavals in the region. And you know that the reason is not, it was never the issue of ethnicity or language. I believe that these arguments have ceased after the financial communication, which the neighbouring country has notified us. The reason for this is that those who trade in nationalism, those who have set careers on this political laxity of the country's nameless country, now now stay without merchandise, without pragmatism. There have been such traders for decades on both sides of the border. And here and there. For those here, then, this great threat is finally and irreversibly ending, not only history but also our lands, and for them there is an end to their invincible political account of alutism, which led the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to international isolation. The Prespecies Agreement resolves a historic retreat, with respect above all in the history of Macedonia itself, a place of living, multicultural, that its people's traditions and cultures have nothing to do with those who speak in his name today and who have the bark cross in their hands. In this history of Macedonian land, the Nazis, the fascists, their partners have only a terrible contribution: they are the hunters, who have tortured, who have displaced thousands of Greek speakers and Slavs, as they did with the Roma, as they did with the Jews. So, it's perfect for us, for the Left, the attacks on their offspring. Greece has been part of the problem for over twenty-five years, sometimes by steam, sometimes by inertia, sometimes by choice. We are not responsible for governments, which have tried to resolve the problem, while respecting the national line, which we have also respected in the negotiation. They tried, but they were unable to resolve it because, as I said before, the forces of nationalism were, not only strong, but often dominated in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and the margins of understanding were little. But today the historic opportunity for the presence of progressive governments in the two countries cannot and must not be lost. Greece cannot dismiss its ability to upgrade its role and its presence in the Balkans and, indeed, not as a force for enforcement, but as a leading positive development for cooperation, for solidarity, for co-development in the region. The Greek Parliament actually writes history with the settlement of the Prespecies Agreement. With the vote of the Greek parliamentarians for the first time after the break-up of the single Yugoslavia, nationalisms face a strong and irreparable blow. The Balkan people, who had learned for decades to solve their problems with blood and hatred towards third parties, came to learn the other, the really hopeful way. The path of dialogue, cooperation, harmonious coexistence and the resolution of our differences, with mutual benefit to our peoples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after being informed of the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured to the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIZELOS", fifty-five students and students and four teachers from the 2nd Farsalon High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor now. Please, you have six minutes, Mr. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Change Movement and our parliamentary group in this House have made it clear that they will vote against the Prespecies Agreement. This is because, while momentum was in order to find a viable solution in Skopje, there was no national agreement, so that the national line that existed for years could be circumvented. Conclusion? This text does not comply with national Red Lines, such as Ethnicity and Language, two fundamental issues that can trigger anti-corrosion references in the future. Because, ladies and gentlemen, citizenship composes ethnicity, so I.D. So I wonder why the Council of Heads was not convened under the President of the Republic, as was the case in 1992? Why has it not been sought to create a common national foreign policy on this major national issue, now that FYROM is about to join NATO and to create the conditions and conditions for joining the European Union as well? Mr President-in-Office, the Government, through the Council of Political Heads, could ensure national unity with the establishment of a national negotiating group. In this way, we would better ensure the'red lines'. So what? Nationality and language. So now Skopje - as our rapporteur, Mr Scandalides, has said - have won the major, namely NATO membership and lost the elsson, a geographical designation in the name that may be removed in the course of the process. Colleagues, the Government, in a short-term majority, is working on a national issue and retreats to vital national issues, in relation to the Interim Agreement, which we had secured in 1995. It is worth wondering, ladies and gentlemen, why not the Macedonian language, why not the citizens of Northern Macedonia, but the citizens of Macedonia? Why didn't the whole text of the Constitution come in? Why did you allow the terms of the 'Macedonian people' and 'Macedonian people' to be referred to in three parts, in order to allow for self-determination and the prevalence of the citizens of the state of FYROM? In other words, crucial issues of national, historical, cultural identity and geopolitical nature. Ladies and gentlemen, we have achieved a broadly accepted national position on this major national issue. The government therefore opened negotiations with a wide consensus, a consensus which it had made in its decision not to convene the Council of Heads of State, with what this entails. Even its attitude to our request that the text of the Skopje Constitution be submitted to Parliament, is tormenting today's debate. And here comes a question: How can we ratify an agreement without having read the Skopje translated constitution, without having the Protocol of Accession to NATO together, so that we can have a full picture? Ladies and gentlemen, we have made three unnegotiable points for us: firstly, the term 'nationality' which has been chosen instead of the term 'citizenship'. We have repeatedly placed ourselves on the opportunities that it provides the Skopje, which can even exploit at the expense of our country, after their accession to NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, by the government's welcome of the term 'nationality' and not clearly specifying citizenship undermines 'erga omnes', i.e. having a common reference within and outside the state of Skopje. It also leaves the Skopje to cultivate a climate of alkaliism. Secondly, why not Macedonian language? With the inclusion of the phrase "Macedonian language" in Article 1 of the Agreement and in the last paragraph of the private communication of the FYROM Ministry of Foreign Affairs, you are in fact acknowledging Macedonian language and turning it into an international bilateral contract rule. Thirdly, you allow the Constitution the term 'Macedonian people'. You let them talk about a 'Macedonian people', a report that will cost the country expensive tomorrow. It will allow its leaders to speak of a Macedonian minority in Greece, thus opening the coast of Ailos. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the attitude of the New Democracy. The treatment of national issues, beyond a sense of responsibility and full knowledge of history, requires, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, and memory. I wonder, after what we heard from you New Democracy MPs: Historically it has been recorded when the problem was created? Documented and thoroughly politically analysed, I would say, was described by our rapporteur, Mr Scandalidis. I am referring only to the accession of Skopje to the UN on the governance of the New Democracy with a positive vote and, indeed, to the solidarity of Greece. Above all, let us not forget what Andreas Papandreou achieved on the 1995 Interim Agreement, shifting Skopje's definitive solution in time when the conditions would be perfectly mature. And now that the conditions were really politically mature, the government has chosen the tough party line. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the Prespecies Agreement is a national issue, which is not a patriot. He must never divide the Greeks into patriots and non-patriots. This is no time for opposition. Skopje needs all the political forces of the country's democratic arch to be solved. It needs broad acceptance and consensus. It needs an agreement that respects the history of our country and, at the same time, ensures peace in the Balkan region. Unfortunately, the government has worked unilaterally and failed. The consequences will be borne by our country and future generations. That is why we are voting against the agreement. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, for all of us, Macedonia means Greece, it means Macedonia. There are no patriots and overpatriots. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, too. The Minister for Finance, Mr Chakalotos, has the floor for six minutes, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. I heard some MPs talking about the wisdom of counterpopulation earlier. I will not follow it because I have a deep love for philosophers, called'softists'. The reason the sophists have a bad name is the prestige Plato and Socrates have in Greece. But why are we proud of Socrates or Plato? Are we proud because they gave a method of philosophy around the world interactive and philosophy took another air, or are we proud, because they were fundamental anti-democrats and taught that democracy and politics are for the few, is it an art, against the wise Champion? When the Germans talk about 'Deutschland über alles', which obviously do not mean that they are better than other countries, but that above all in the soul of the Germans it is Germany, that is, romance in the good period of nationalism. When are they proud of 'über alles'? When they think of Beethoven and Gate, or when they think on the night of November 9, 1938, Kristallnacht, "The night that the crystals broke", where the raids in Germany broke Jewish stores and killed people, and we now have in the Greek Parliament who believe in the invasion battalions? And we know that November 9, 1938, led to Auschwitz and that for the first time on November 9, 1938, Germans understood it both in Greece and England. We're all proud of our story. But what story are we proud of? Same story? I, for example, am proud that in July 1943 EAM came down to Athens and Thessaloniki, so that Eastern Macedonia would not be handed over to a Bulgarian authority. But I'm proud, not only because EAM did this, but because five months ago, in February 1943, it went down again to Athens and Thessaloniki, so that there is no political empowerment and we can talk about EAMs of populism and justice. Is this our story the same? I don't know. Do we have to have the same values, so we can all be patriots? I don't know that either. I know, however, that there can be no patriotism without evaluating content. Years ago, Nikiforos Diamantouros, who was then the Counsellor of Citizens and Greece and Europe and many of us are proud of him, even though he is not in my own political family, wrote about Greece, about the two cultures. One culture was supposed to be the traditional, introvert, the suspicious of the stranger, the suspicious of the change. The other culture was the reformist culture, looking out, that wanted the changes, the reforms, the technology. I didn't agree with that theory of Nikiforos. I did not agree, because in obsolete culture it also put people who believed in equality and socialism, as if equality were something bad, and only we could increase the pie before we shared it. But it was, you see, the high period of modernisation, where modernisation would solve all the problems and all the ideological battles, such as Fuguyama, who was talking about the end of history, because then they thought that the two-thirds of the people would always be fine. And if one - 1/3 were left behind, it wouldn't matter, we'd give them some damages. That's what collapsed in the crisis in 2009. The idea has collapsed that progress and this ideology can go forward, and that is why we have the reclassifications you see in front of it. Because after 2009 this capitalism, not only could not help 2/3, but not even 1/3. And inequality began to be a huge thing. And what happened in Europe and not just here? The conservative groups found the sweetness of nationalism. Why did they find her? Because it was not just the economic crisis, the inequalities, the bad jobs with no prospect. It was also a feeling that we do not belong anywhere, there is no democracy, no one listens to us, and that is why they have turned this into nationalism, here and in Hungary and in Italy and Austria, and very much in France. So, did Mrs. Tasia Christodoulou say: Why are you surprised that people are changing in these reconstructings when the center has sinked? Why does it surprise you that the New Democracy has gone to the right? Because it sees that the only response to inequality is to give a new picture of the community and the nation, which is nationalist, since we cannot give them new jobs, jobs and equality and schools and hospitals. And yet, we know that it cannot be the only response to the collapse of neoliberalism and of the middle space, of the centre, of nationalism. There might be another solution from Salvini, Samara and Orban. And that's what we need to look at. And we know from the stoics that there are three reasons for being citizens. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] You will give me some more time, Mr President. We know from ancient philosophy and the stoics where to find this other way, because the stoics said there are three reasons to be, as Diogenes the Cynic people of the world said. The first reason is that if we study outside our borders, we understand ourselves better, we understand the interdependencies that exist in values and communities, that if we are citizens of the world, we understand better how to solve problems. Because the stoics said that there is no greater obstacle to solving problems than phraseism and topicalism from people who only look at their own things. We can also be citizens of the world, because then we understand what unites humanity and values. The values are those of justice, of goodness and of looking for the right reason. Are all foreign policy problems solved in this way? Obviously, they're not solved. There must be realism. But there are limits to realism, because as Bismarck said, who was a realist, any deal leaves a place in a bad state, disappointed, not a deal. He'll come back to you in history. Finally, I don't know if we can all be patriots in the same way, if two different people, with different values, can be patriots in the same way. We have to look into it. Nor do I know whether there is patriotism that can leave the hug of nationalism and intolerance. What I know, however, is that we can be proud of Greece, for what it did for art, philosophy and democracy. But we of SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, are looking forward. We are also proud that we want to help Thessaloniki be the centre of the Balkans. And it can't be the center of the Balkans when it looks only south and doesn't have the space to expand, not the penetrating that Mr. Simitis said - a word! - but with a real perception of co-development. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me a minute more, Mr President. And we are proud that, as far as patriotism is concerned, we want to devise new images, new ideas for the community, for how you can make neighborhoods, how you can build cities, areas that are proud of what they are building together - and politically together - with hospitals, with schools. The only question - and with this I am really ending, Mr President - is that these things, these values cannot be left alone. And I grieve, because I know that there are people in New Democracy - and KINAL - who don't believe what they say about Macedonia, who in them know that there is a good word and like stoics, prevents them from being translated. I remind you, as far as the way to Auschwitz is concerned, it was not only what the bad people did, but also things they did not do, people who were good and knew how to deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Vettas, MP of SYRIZA, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. It is extremely difficult for me to succeed Euclid Tsakalotus in Step. The Greek people would expect these two parties, which have governed much more than the years in which the Macedonian question is being discussed, to show an increased level of responsibility, from that level of responsibility they have shown in the management of public money, institutions, transparency, the economy and social problems. In vain, of course, wait, why this opportunity is gone. It's hard - you know - often insisting on seeking to get up to the level of one's responsibility when - as it turns out - it wasn't worthy of all these years. By addressing both the great and the small right in this Chamber, in the New Democracy and in PASOK, I would like to remind them that the earth is turning. And that's a ritual. The earth turns, even now that you're sitting on your steady seats. The earth turns after the Interim Agreement. But it turns backwards, ladies and gentlemen. After the Interim Agreement, the earth returned, but turned backwards, as the city of Skopje filled with statues of Alexander the Great, filled with Suns of Vergina, filled with monuments and history of ours. From the Interim Agreement you brought back then, the town of Skopje was filled with our own names. Their routes, their airports had our own names. Since the Interim Agreement - your interim agreement - a lot of serious things have happened. From your Interim Agreement our neighbours are entering now, at the moment we are talking about, in our own country, about 14.30', with passports holding in their hands and listing broadly "Macedonia's Republic". That was your story. I don't know if the Greek citizen, listening to all this, can understand that you, with that agreement, protected history, protected culture, protected a name. So what you couldn't do, does this deal tonight or near midnight or just after midnight. You're in front of another strategic defeat. Every victory of the Greek people, every solution to a problem - of major importance, whether economic or national interest - creates and directs you to another serious strategic defeat. You charged the country with an eight-year-old memorial from which we came out. You have charged the country with a twenty-six-year-old national memorandum from which it comes out tonight. And it comes out with the support of not only this government, but also of the entire progressive forces of this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just an honest agreement, it is also a sustainable agreement. And sustainable is something, when there is and lives on both sides. I would say that a key criterion for the sustainability and honesty of this agreement is who beats it, with what rhetoric, in what words, what words are you talking about. The whole ethnicist and nationalist movement of the two countries strikes with exactly the same rhetoric, with just the same words on this agreement. Tonight, then, the great effort of the New Democracy and PASOK to mislead, the great attempt to deceive the Greek people, is ending. Ladies and gentlemen, this was never a question of the Prespecies Agreement. The point was to hit SYRIZA, hit Alexis Tsipras by discussing this agreement. And what did you use? patriotism as a tool. But you know, patriotism has names, has parties. patriotism isn't Monday, Tuesday. It's Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. It's every week, every year, every day. So what did you do? You used patriotism. The patriot, of course, must love his homeland and not hate other homelands. However, anyone who uses in this Parliament - and represents a party - patriotism, must tomorrow morning return the more than 400 million euros owed by the parties of the New Democracy and PASOK. Of course, the patriot must love his homeland and not hate other homelands. But, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament cannot be a profession. There cannot be people for more than thirty years in this Parliament. It is not a profession for Parliament. So tomorrow, when we bring the article, which refers to the limitations of parliamentary immunity, through constitutional revision, there must be no one of you patriots who will not vote on it. The patriot must love his homeland, and of course, he must not hate other homelands. It must not, however, give up more than 300 billion debt to our children in the next generations. The patriot is, of course, the one who loves his country and doesn't hate other homelands, but he doesn't run out of here, when we voted in this Parliament for offshore. And this, for the Greek citizen to know where Members of Parliament are being financed, how much he has earned, if he really is entitled to make it, and how he defines it. Ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken about political deception, a deception which has an objective: to strike the anger of the media voter. They don't care about the citizen. If they were interested in the citizen, they would have been interested in forty years in ruling. His anger you want. His anger wanted and they'd want these two parties of power. So what do they want? Create a miserable man, a dizzy citizen, and forget what has happened, what can be done, who is to blame, where he will go, for the ultimate goal that was and remains one for you: the well-being of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u143	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u144	Just a minute, Mr President, like everyone else. The thinking was too easy and very simple for you: I will change my position, I will create a toxic environment around national issues and win, to win from this part of society, which will go righter than me. The country comes out of its memorandum both from economic and national. This agreement is the framework for cooperation between the two countries. But this framework must be maintained and loved by the peoples and future generations. I hear the question from colleagues in the New Democracy 'Why now?' One, because your position was "never". You have never solved anything in this country, you have never helped the Greek people out of their problems and the great deadlocks. After years, we will obviously understand the importance of today. And then, you know, they will be evaluated - unfortunately, we can only take the time forward - what has happened, the difficulties of dilemmas, all the problems and, of course, the credit of all those powers, which did not put their party interest in the face, but the national interest, the interests of the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] The sick political plans of the New Democracy - I am closing with this, Mr President - will be faced with all the progressive citizens and democratic citizens of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u146	We have made general cuts, Mr President. But he needs to. I get it. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak with low tones. This does not, in my view, allow acidity, at least in the form of expression, so that the argument can be heard. I would recommend, however, that any speaker who goes up to Step in order to moralize and learn in New Democracy, should have a better memory. I have already heard the honourable Member blaming us for offshore. I'd like to remind him of something. I imagine it was in the government majority who voted at the end of last year for the offshore provision from SYRIZA and their 15% exemption. Isn't that right? I don't remember anyone being uprooted to this. So that's why a little attention. Minister, Mr Chakaloto, every time I come to this House with some thought about what I'm going to say, I find you at a strange juncture in front of me and you completely overthrow programming. I heard you passing all the Greek philosophy quickly, from Plato, to the wise, to the stoics, to the cynics, you said how much you loved them. But honestly, do you know what you remind me of? Marco Aurelio. And you reminded me of him in the sense that his whole life was a stoic philosopher, he wrote "self", he proclaimed his love to humanity and progressive ideas, but in his practice he blooded Germany and left nothing standing around the area around the Rhine. He spent his whole life fighting and exterminating, of course saying very nice words about people’s love, etc. Of course, you didn't exterminate with a sword. But you have done away with taxes and everything else that every Minister of Finance has at his disposal. And I must tell you that I was impressed by something else that you said about the agreement, which must, of course, leave it to a certain extent happy on both sides. That's right. We're signing it. There's no other deal. Besides, the experience of Versailles after World War I provides accurate documentation of this. But tell me, then, how, in your perception to grant the name "Macedonia" to the northern neighbour, whom you are dealing with before this government - is it, I do not understand - how it could be a healthy agreement, since you know - very angry - not just complained - a huge part of the Greek society? What basis would that be if Macedonia were the northern ones and we were the 'non-Macedonia'? Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about and addressing a society which is extremely tired of the crisis, a society whose pride has been trampled, wounded and we must be very careful not to create divisions. We are talking here about a historical difference, a difference, which is a line of the Eastern question of the end of the 19th century, going through wars, post-war change, another form is in the context of the single Yugoslavia and another form takes place when the single Yugoslavia is now breaking. But before I talk to you about the difference, I will tell you about us, about the New Democracy, the New Democracy of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to be informed. Because we have heard too many heterostations in this Chamber, too many speeches from various speakers about what we are. So I'll tell you what the New Democracy of the Lord Mitsotakis is. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] First of all, it's not fearful, it's not a fan of a blamed Greece, it's not a fan of a enclosed Greece, it's not a fan of an insecure Greece, it's not a fan of a miserable Greece, it's not a fan of a suspicious and isolated Greece, it doesn't believe in nationalist outrages, it doesn't believe in populism. He believes in a modern, open, tolerable, ambitious, confident Greece. And especially for Macedonia, he believes that Macedonia can be the centre for economic development in the Balkans and that Thessaloniki can be the capital of the Balkans. That is why he rejects Balkan provincialism and adopts European cosmopolitanism. This is the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and with this New Democracy you must discuss, not with the New Democracy that you are trying to heterogeneously define. And I must tell you that the government did not want - I am not putting the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group on this - in negotiating this national issue to discuss with this New Democracy, the best interlocutor ever to find. She didn't want to share her ideas with this New Democracy. He did not want the support of this New Democracy in the national effort. He did not want the New Democracy's views in the national effort. It completely isolated this New Democracy from the national effort, the best New Democracy, with which one could expect to trade on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, why did the Prime Minister do this? And I'm telling you, I'm not putting you in this conversation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need one, one and a half more minutes with your permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u147	As a parliamentary representative, Mr President, twelve minutes is entitled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u148	Theoretically I'm entitled to 12 minutes. I don't know why the previous President-in-Office gave me six.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u149	I'll explain. Under the Rules of Procedure you have the right, because you speak before your President, to speak for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u150	I'll try not to consume all the time I'm entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u151	That's what I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, why did the Prime Minister do this? I'm telling you, I don't think you're part of this thought. She didn't share her with us, she didn't even share her with you. The Prime Minister tried to use this issue with another prioritisation. It was not the national interest that its first criterion was. If the national interest were its first criterion, there was no possibility that it would not approach the Civic Opposition at least. I want to be honest. I don't chew my words or hide. Of course, the national position, the position we have agreed on, was what you say, the complex name. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But in what sense is the composite name? The complex name as a negotiating element, as a last resort, not as a starting point for discussion with the other side. Of course, we would be happy if we were to be called Macedonia and the northern neighbours were to say anything else. That was our hope. However, we have known well since the beginning of the 1990s that this hope is very difficult to achieve. That is why we have come to an agreement on what our last line of retreat is. But, in order to reach this last line of retreat, that is, the complex name, we had to take other things, we had to take concrete exchanges, not in the bad sense, the exchanges of enforcement on the other side, as if they were our enemies, but as a genuine basis of understanding for the future, for a better Balkan, for a friendly relationship, for an opening in the Balkans. The question that needs to be asked is: has this agreement been done? This agreement, ladies and gentlemen, is a basis for sincere understanding for the future? There, unfortunately, we have too much fears - and that is why we are responding to this agreement negatively. Our rapporteur, Mr Kumouchakos, and all the other speakers in the New Democracy have explained to you what these points are. They've been quantified already. We told you: We grant 12, we take four. Occasionally, don't eat our time. You've heard them too many times. The fact that the Constitution does not come codified here for us is a huge problem. Mr. Katrugalos would tell me, if he were in the Chamber, that Article 131 of the Skopje Constitution, which provides for the way it is changed, does not provide for codification. That's true. But I'm telling you, because you may not have looked at it - you have no reason - that the Skopje Constitution is not a tough constitution like ours. It has been amended thirty three times. It has thirty-three amendments. In the context of the negotiation, the Skopje could be asked to change Article 131 and to codify the text in the single interest, in order to avoid any friction in the future, if there is a VMRO government or any other government that has revisions to Greece and the Balkans in the north. Why didn't you? Why didn't the government, ladies and gentlemen? With regard to nationality, do you want us to agree 'nationality'? Let's call it citizenship or whatever you want. Beyond the choice of the term, from there on, why shouldn't there be a word? Why should there be a 'Macedonian/citizen of Northern Macedonia'? Why should that be? Why wasn't the North-Macedonian enough, a word so it can't be broken up? How can you be sure that if we were all together in this effort, if we were all trying together, with the small powers that everyone has, the government on the part of the government, we would not have done it? What was it that allowed Mr. Tsipras to reduce the national capital, which was placed in this battle? I told you what it was: its perception that the party interest, the division of anti-population and, to any extent, the national interest must first be pursued. One, that, ladies and gentlemen, makes me deeply sad. I am not going to go to the other problems that exist, in addition to what has already been said, on trademarks. I was expecting - I am not hiding you - that the Minister of Development should come here and explain to us what the government planning is to solve these issues in the future, so that we do not have any further frictions. On school manuals, I expected the Minister of Education to come here and explain to us what will happen with these issues. None of this has happened either here or in committee. But I honestly tell you that I hope and hope from the depth of my heart and you know that I believe you have taken care of - and I am referring to the Government and I am looking at you - the next steps from this agreement. Have you, at least, planned, the dynamic steps that need to be taken quite quickly to correct, at least in practice, the huge gaps that this agreement leaves. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the government, if you leave these gaps as they exist, the country will face great problems in the future. And it can be historically proven that the New Democracy is right, but that is very small because Greece will then pay for the damage. What I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that here we are discussing an opportunity lost. As the President of Parliament said, Mr Voutsis, yesterday, the juncture was favourable. It was favourable, on the one hand, because on the side of Skopje there was an interlocutor, with his problems, with his peculiarities, but at last, for the first time, there was a interlocutor, not like in our own days that we could not speak with Gruevski. In addition, there was the international player, who had decided to force the Skopje to resolve the issue. It is a pity, therefore, that within this absolutely favourable time, Prime Minister Tsipras, instead of choosing Greece, chose SYRIZA and his Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u153	Thank you to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Tindemans, and to respect time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u155	Minister, we are listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u156	I would like to say some clarification, so that questions and loose ends remain in the air. First of all, Mr Denkias knows that the international agreement, which has been signed in cooperation with the United Nations, is an international agreement which takes precedence over the Skopje Constitution. The changes that have been made are a portrayal of this agreement in the Constitution, which means that this people and this country, with the other attitude that has been expressed at the moment by a majority, have decided to move into a European strategy. Therefore, this international agreement and the changes of the Constitution in the course of the country to the European Union confirms it, ensures it and controls it by the European Union, which will open the individual chapters for the full accession of this country to the European Union. Therefore, all these fears expressed on all issues do not take into account the fact that this country has a strong will, which has a strong will to do with the economy of the country, with the prospect of the country, how that country will stand economically and this future depends on its European path. Mr. Dendias made another reference to the book case. It is a chapter that will allow me - I said yesterday, but it was too late to be here - to say that the agreement provides for a spiral similar to that which exists between many states, a spiral, which France and Germany did to resolve the issues of their differences, which had entered, had become embedded in school books. It is a committee like the one that we have and operates to resolve our differences with Albania. Such a committee also provides for the agreement we are talking about. So this committee is commanded by the agreement, namely the dominant will of the two peoples, of the two countries, of the two governments, to resolve the issues that exist in connection with evacuation and revision in school manuals. This committee met once in Thessaloniki. He'll meet the next few days in some town where they invite us to our neighboring country. What did we agree to at the first meeting? We agreed that we have a regulation of operation and then we raised three issues. We have said that we need to prevent what the agreement has given us, that is to say, books should not have amputations and revisions. Do they have time to get out of this? Do the teachers have time? They told us they couldn't make it. That is why we agreed, firstly, that with regard to the detailed programmes, which the Ministry of Education will take out from Skopje, it will order, no chapter of which were the propaganda of the previous decades, which were unequivocal and which were mentioned in ancient Greek history, in ancient Macedonian history, in Alexandros, to Aristotle. Then, the books that will be shared in September to children will have no photographs, symbols of ancient Greek, which refer to ancient Greek culture and thirdly, all the maps will be removed, which show the alphabeticals of so-called Great Macedonia, the pseudo-aluterisms, to say, literally. That's what they agreed to. What issues did they put on our own books? None. “Everything that has been written and played in central news reports, that they asked that the Bulgarians should not be taught and that Paul Melas should not be taught is completely false. They have absolutely nothing to do with reality. We raised them a matter - and I told them last night - that we in our schoolbooks have to remove points that we have to adapt, based on European law. In other words, there are some maps to which the example of Philippopolis, for example, as Philippopolis, refers. In accordance with European provisions, the European acquis that we respect must state the name of the country. In other words, we need to write "Plovdiv" afterward, because it is directed to the Greek public, who has a registered history otherwise, in parentheses to say "Philippopolis". The same applies to the Monastery or Adrianoupolis, to end these issues. It's that simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u157	You're short, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u158	I shall conclude, Mr President. People say "In the Greek books, there will be no intervention? The Agreement provides for reciprocity.’ The Greek books, however, are free of albuminism and revisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u159	Good. Thank you for the clarifications, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u161	SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Nikos Xydakis has the floor for two minutes to make one speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u162	I would like to give a very brief answer to the Parliamentary spokesman for the Grand Representation. After my own reading - moderate statement by Kostas Karamanlis and the moderate position of Mr Dendias - I think that the message has been received and the Coupling, our messages yesterday from our own speeches, presided over by the President of the Parliament, to alleviate the spirits and remove them from this morbid climate of division, anti-parliamentarianism and expropriation, which are ultimately toxic against democracy. I have a very brief answer to the objections, which exist in a milder way, both to Costas Karamanlis and to the parliamentary representative, that the so-called 'information' or 'consent' has not been made in time. They are well aware that these experienced parliamentary and political men are solely responsible for the development and implementation of foreign policy, according to the Constitution, the government has it. Any other body can act as a moral cloak. The famous Council of Political Heads is an informal body, which cannot in any way commit nor politically. To remind you, in fact, with all honesty that on the Macedonian, when it was called in 1992, it led to a dead end and produced no productive result. Every route of communication has been rejected. With this result, according to what we know, there are not even practical reasons, a Foreign Minister was sent back then and we reached the Interim Agreement of 1995, on the initiative of the government at that time, without passing through Parliament and without consulting any Council of Heads of State or Government. In our case now, at the end of 2017 and at the beginning of 2018, the political leaders were invited to take the lead directly. The Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister called on the political leaders and representatives so that everyone could be informed. And these moves were made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u163	Please, please, so we can move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u164	I shall conclude, Mr President. From there on, the historic agreement came to Parliament. We are having an in-depth debate with intensity and wealth of arguments. In the meantime, it has been more than a year since we have been discussing this. There's plenty of public space. They speak academics. They speak citizens. They speak politicians. So let's take it from this point on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. We're on the list. Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis, Member of the Kosanis of SYRIZA, has the floor. Here, Mr. Dimitriadis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the release of Macedonia from the Turkish yoke, following the Balkan Wars, the Treaty of Bucharest in 1913 is signed, and the present borders of our country are fixed. It is a treaty that our country, Greece, has more than 50% of the so-called geographical Macedonia at the time and on the substance, the whole of historical Macedonia, which is also Greek. The rest of the geographically then designated Macedonia passes to the occupation of Serbia and Bulgaria mainly. In 1945, the Socialist Republic of Macedonia was then formed as a federal state of Yugoslavia. There was virtually no reaction then from the Greek Government. There was not even until the recent period, precisely because that was then serving the western international player, in which our governments fully and without doubt obeyed. This has been the case until 1992, where the single Yugoslavia is dismantled and the modern state of Macedonia is being set up, but it is the former federal part of the former Yugoslavia, FYROM. Since 1995, our difference with this country, which is now a state entity, has been under the auspices of the UN and has been under the so-called Interim Agreement. At this time of the interim agreement a national line was formed, supported and supported by four Prime Ministers, but also by the governments of our country, especially from 2008 onwards. Three things demarcate this national line. It is a complex name with a geographical definition of the word "Macedonia", "erga omnes", i.e. "name vis-à-vis all uses" and the removal of alpha-filling from the neighbour. It is important to note that all these twenty-seven years we have only achieved small defeats. With the existing Prespecies Agreement, we have achieved everything that this national line defined, but also something more. We've achieved two specific things. We succeeded in changing the constitutional name of the neighbouring country, i.e. from the centre "Macedonia" to "North Macedonia" and the constitutional change of the articles of their constitution, which included the Alteration references and unequal claims against our country. In other words, we have a peace agreement, which, together with its express commitments to the inviolability of the borders, has nothing to do with the Greek history, culture and heritage of Greek Macedonia, we have a definitive settlement of our differences. We have a restoration of a school poaching, which was attempted by the neighbor at the expense of our country. We have, in short, the reintroduction of FYROM to international regularity and European law. With regard to international relations, the upgrading of our country's position is obvious and given. It is constantly confirmed by every international interlocutor and approved not only by international institutions, but also by all European political families, from the right to the left. The main thing, however, which we need to see, in my view, is the developmental part of Greek Macedonia. It is a part of our interest and a part of our interest, because it opens up our development potential and increases the geopolitical upgrading of our country's position and its role. The development model of the last decades has been based on a purely customer state, mainly on the orders of foreigners, in cooperation with domestic economic and political elites, based on anti-developing and non-sustainable production models, such based mainly on regional inequality. It was always responsible for it that the same elite, which gained profits and benefits from it as a result of its distorting organization and forming the state and gained political and economic benefits from the political formation itself, which was based on a enclosed state on our northern borders, with unique alliances, with limited aid and, therefore, we were always controlled and dependent. The dominant economic and political class, formed in our country over these years, has therefore been addicted, but also entrenched in this distorted, incomplete and mortal economic environment. It is precisely this combined process that led our country to the unprecedented crisis. In short, the development model has collapsed, along with economic dependence, but also with our same strategic caging. We. This model is changing, adding to our geopolitical advantages, benefits and added value for the country. Through a multi-dimensional foreign policy, and based on the rules of international law, the country is established as a pillar of peace, progress and stability in a fundamentally unstable area. Macedonia, therefore, has remained until recently simply an internal region of a national centre. It was internally excluded, on the one hand, from an unjust and unequal regional level of national development, on the other, at the same time deprived by its geopolitical potential and its comparative productive advantages, precisely because of the distorted national production model, as I mentioned earlier. One example to this: The Tempes opened in 2018 and became the real way to access the rest of Greece to our Macedonia. The rail network, which has actually developed in Thessaloniki over the last few decades and has served to send immigrants to Germany, has been in a crisis for the past twenty years, and today we are again trying to upgrade it, because precisely the rail network in Northern Greece means that it has to have terminations, it has to have destinations and these destinations are the Balkan inland. Our Macedonia, in short, lived with this cancellation for decades. Our aim is that there can be a new area of growth and prosperity for itself, but also for the country. To do, in short, a place to justify the expectations of so many lost decades.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr. Dimitriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u168	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. To become the leader of a wider Balkan development, at the heart of a large Balkan market, precisely because the Balkans are its inland and could be the engine of growth for the whole Balkans, it could be, and it will become, a major parameter for a sustainable and growing national economy, a stable factor of prosperity. Energy pipelines, hydrocarbons, investment in national transport, our roads and ports establish a new reality, which is the basis of a new era in terms of hegemony. This is our attempt to liberate the future. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u169	Thank you Mr. Dimitriadis, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Stavros Kalafatis, Member of the Greek Parliament, has the floor now. Here, Mr. Kalafati, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u170	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, two major issues arise today. There is a question of a false solution for our Macedonia. There is also a question of the rape of democracy. And I start with the second one. There is a question of democracy, because the government arrived at the Prespecies Agreement without asking, as it did in July 2015, the parliament's mandate. There is a question of democracy, because the government's survival, an essential condition to get here, is the result of apostasy and political transaction. Above all, there is a question of democracy, because the government is going to impose an agreement that is rejected by 70% of the Greeks. The government boasts every sense of democracy and destroys the principle of national sovereignty. And all this for foreigners' sakes, like a develarator of their pursuits, like a juicy. Ladies and gentlemen, the first and major issue, which is judged today, is the wrong solution, is the lake monster of the Prespes! It is wrong because there is no precedent anywhere in the world in which the people are called and otherwise the state. And it's a monster, because the combination of name, identity and language drugizes our national interests. The government claims that it granted Macedonian citizenship rather than ethnicity. Nationality, however, is the legal bond between the state and its citizens. That is why, everywhere in the world, the name of a state and a people is absolutely identical. New Zealand is called New Zealand and North Korea North Korea. You, why did you accept the state being called North Macedonia and the inhabitants of Macedonia? The Government submits that the financial communication sent by the Skopje is justified by its claims, as it is stated that citizenship does not prejudice nationality. He pretends that he did not hear that this addition was a request from Albanian MPs who want to separate their own ethnic group. He forgets the government that Zoran Zaev himself has said that the goal is not to prejudge the ethnicity of Albanians and others. It is also forgotten that the reference it celebrates refers to constitutional amendments which make things even worse. Not only do they refuse, but they underline the existence of a Macedonian people and these references to Macedonian people do not concern citizenship, they concern ethnicity. In the same direction, he conceives the fact that the agreement recognises Macedonian language. It claims, of course, that this has been the case since 1977 at a United Nations conference in Athens. He is lying and he knows it, because that visit was not about language recognition and because the Skopje themselves, even at a recent council of political leaders, call their language Slavomacedon. The main issue is the fact that the composite name will not apply ‘erga omnes’, not all uses. First of all, it will not apply to identity and language. It will not, however, be applied by the citizens either, but only by the state. It is also a challenge that the agreement puts into question, both our Macedonian names and the books of our history. "Where they owed us, they take the vineyard!" Instead of turning us the story they stole, they're looking for the change! Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister responsible has now come to say that the Skopje have the right to self-determination and that Greece cannot intervene in this. Then what was he negotiating so long? And why did he include these issues in the agreement? One more thing. Mr Zaev does not invoke the right to self-determination. It says that "Greeks have recognized that we are Macedonians, who speak Macedonian language". And we ask: does the government not realize that if the agreement is ratified, the Skopje will not only call themselves, but will they be called by Macedonians throughout the world? Does he not realize that we will hear the Macedonian Prime Minister and not the Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia everywhere in the world? Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zafe has already said that the agreement preserves the Macedonian national and cultural identity, that it builds a global Macedonia, that in the future neither Greece nor anyone else will be able to question their self-determination. So don't make a mistake. Those of us who are disturbed by what Mr Zaev says, have only one solution: to vote against the agreement. Because the problem isn't that Zafe says it. The problem is, the deal is. The government claims that this agreement was the best that the country could achieve. National truth. In fact, by April 2008 dozens of countries, one after another, recognised Skopje under their constitutional name. Indeed, until that time the pressure was concentrating on us and the pressure peaked at the NATO Summit in Bucharest. However, then there were those who proposed the national interest and allied the Greek position. And ever since then, Greece has acquired a civilian diplomatic weapon. Since then the time of the pressure has begun to turn from Athens to Skopje and our justice has been a matter of time. Sadly, however, while the juncture worked for us as never before, Mr. Tsipras adopted the most unscrupulous positions: From Belgrade in December 2017 he declared that there can be a solution: "if the Skopje stop the rhetoric that they are the only descendants of the Macedonians". He granted the Macedonians the legacy of the Macedonians and asked them to accept that they are not the only ones. That's how the negotiations started, and the result is now ahead of us. He's not saving, but he's signing up for our national case! In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I will say a few words from the heart. What will be decided now concerns our past and our future. We must think about whether we can, against the will of the majority of the Greeks, cut and delete the history of two and a half thousand years. We must realize that tomorrow, with our approval, the Skopje will be called by the entire world of Macedonians. We have to think about what we're going to tell our children, asking each of us "You did this?" We have made our decision: we cannot, the Macedonians, say Macedonians. We cannot accept a solution that gives the Skopje the opportunity to whistle name, ethnic and language. We're not selling our souls. So think, too. Think a little more! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u171	Thank you Stavros Kalafatis, MP for the New Democracy. The floor is now for SYRIZA MP George Psychogios. Please prepare Mr Vagionas. Here, Mr. Psychoyte, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think that one is easily tempted to respond to such designations and aspirations, as the previous colleague has heard, but I think there is a difference between Mr Twelfths and other colleagues. So I invite them to solve the problem. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the national line on the Macedonian issue has been summarised for over fifteen years: a complex name with a geographical designation for use against all, namely 'erga omnes'. It has been declared on several occasions, in the most official way, by the previous governments, Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers. But what happens when the national line becomes a reality in the SYRIZA Government with the Ambassadors' Agreement? Then things change. Then this agreement is automatically bad. Then the majority of the old political system along with their satellites automatically suffers amnesia, despite the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made much better commitments for the Greek side than you had come to negotiate and accept you and despite the fact that this is a text that is clear, because the agreement is written in a clear and detailed manner. That is why, in the last few days, we have been spectators of an impression theatre, both in Parliament and in the public debate, with specific media, to misinform, to intimidate citizens by creating a dissatisfaction, but unfortunately, and, in other words, authors and lawyers, to subject their analysis to the context and feasibility. At this point, I would also like to say about ERT, which played its catalytic role in this period, organising good discussions with arguments, which, obviously, you did not want when you closed it. So, in this climate, we are being called upon to debate this House, as if we were to legislate in a historical vacuum and had not preceded all of this, with an unprecedented cutting text of the agreement, in what way, with historical and political inaccuracies, even with dangerous revisions, on the Bucharest Treaty, which clearly defined the borders. And all of this, just so we do not get into the substance of the debate on the agreement and the differences it raises. Of course, behind all the coordinated efforts, the aim is once again to fall - finally - the SYRIZA Government. But let us now talk about the Prespecies Agreement. This is an international text, with many positive aspects on the part of Greece. I will use pieces directly from the deal and to be precise, but why she speaks for herself in many places. I am therefore beginning with the preamble reminding the principles and objectives of the United Nations Charter, the Helsinki Final Act in 1975, the relevant OSCE resolutions and the values and principles of the Council of Europe which the parties must serve. And, of course, it is a full agreement on the need to strengthen peace, stability, security and further promote cooperation in south-east Europe. The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia will now be called ‘Republic of Northern Macedonia’ or a brief version of the name ‘North Macedonia’, as referred to in Article 1, ‘erga omnes’, i.e. it will commit both internally and bilaterally to all regional and international organisations. As regards language and citizenship, because you have deliberately misinformed the Greek people for some time now, the following must be pointed out: First of all, the issue of Macedonian language has not come to be negotiated now. It has already existed since 1977, when it was recognised as such at the Third United Nations Conference on standardisation of geographical names in Athens. We must stress here that the Greek side has succeeded with this agreement to give full clarification to Article 7 that this language belongs to the South Slavic language group. Also - I read directly through the text of the agreement: 'The official language and other characteristics of the second part', namely the neighbouring country, 'have nothing to do with ancient Greek culture, history, culture and heritage of the northern region of the first part', namely Greece. As far as citizenship is concerned, things are simpler. The term 'nationality', we all know that it is used internationally, in order to express what we mean in Greece as citizenship, namely the legal link between the citizen and the state. You have also tried to blur water, speaking of nationality, meaning, which could not in any case be part of such an agreement, as I think you know that public international law does not regulate issues of nationality. The fact that it is a citizenship is also clear in the financial communication which has been notified to us. Very important, too, are Articles 4, 5 and 6 of the Agreement, which dismantle any suspicion of invasion and related issues. Again, I will come to the agreement and read exactly Article 6(1): "In order to strengthen friendly bilateral relations, each Party will immediately take effective measures to prohibit national activities, actions, propaganda by state services or services directly or indirectly controlled by the State and to prevent activities that may undermine Sovietism, hostility, infectiousness and revision against the other Party. If such activities occur, the Parties shall take all necessary measures.’ There is also a reference to Articles 11 to 17 - which is hidden from almost all colleagues - and which refers to the solid bases for the development perspective in the wider region of the Balkans, in areas such as education, research, the economy, agriculture, trade, transport and transport, energy, industry, investment, civil protection. To talk politically, though, beyond the legal part. This agreement is the beginning, but also the culmination of ending a long period of uncertainty and weakness for the Balkans. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I refer to all political forces except the Golden Dawn. This agreement lays the foundations for democracy, progress, close cooperation and development of the wider region and increases the role of the country, and it is a very important blow to nationalism, which has led the Balkans, over time, to national tragedies, defeats and international isolation. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, your once-in-the-centre democratic extension has in many cases adopted the agenda and the rhetoric of the extreme right. He legitimised and silenced in front of acts that now lead to other roads which are dangerous to everyone. The threatening messages and phones, the criminal attacks on Members' homes and families, the participation in the rally and the coup d'état with the neonazis, without saying that everyone who was there was fascists, but all the fascists were there and you accept it. And we didn't suddenly love chemicals. We've given races and marches on the road, but you haven't found a word to tell the injured police officers and the organised plan for the House, nor for the journalist, who suffered these blows, to cover the report. And, of course, for all these items, which we all saw the next day that they were slain in the House, you say nothing. All you are interested in at a very critical moment in democracy throughout Europe is how the SYRIZA Government will fall.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u173	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u174	I conclude, Mr President, by making a hundred and fifty-eight people of art and culture in favour of the agreement, who say: 'We support the Prespecies Agreement, respecting the independence and rights of the people. We support the agreement, but it is not enough to talk only about Greek culture, but to protect it, promote it and express ourselves through its basic principles. We want a Greece of democracy, dialogue, opposition to darkness, xenophobia, nationalism, repression and totalitarianism." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Psychogio, SYRIZA MP. Mr Georgios Vagionas, Member of the New Democracy Halkidiki, has the floor, Here, Mr. Bagiona, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u176	Ladies and gentlemen, since the first moment, since June 2018, I have made it clear that for me, the agreement is poor. I still believe that. No mention is made of the Bucharest veto agreement you bring to the vote at about midnight. What did this deal include? First, the removal of all the alpha-permanent elements, with a constitutional review and a common name against all, 'erga omnes'. That was a prerequisite about ten years ago. Did you bring it? Do we have the deal today to see her? We don't have it. The second is the name. So we had to have the agreement in our hands, to decide on the name, because we first solve the name, and then join NATO. Already, that's what the Skopje have done with it. So we won these, gentlemen of the government, with a lot of trouble in 2008, when we had Gruevski in front of us. Ten years later, nothing has happened at all. What is the constitutional review? How do the alpha-corrosion elements disappear? The supposedly revised constitution of Skopje has not even come to the Greek Parliament unless you have it and keep it for yourself. You haven't taken care of, gentlemen of the government, to keep these gains. You didn't fight those. You handed them over, not to say willingly. We kept this line, while you, on the basis of your ideology, made it clear that you wouldn't mind 'Macedonia' as top officials and government ministers had said: the Tsakalotos who just left in great words, Gavroglou, Christodoulopoulos, the very Karanic. And you're glad you pulled the sun of Vergina from the flag of the neighboring country. Where are you, Andronica, see us? In detail, Mr Koumoutsakos pointed out to you all the vulnerabilities of the agreement. I'm only standing in four spots because of time. Firstly, the official erga omnes does not exist. "North Macedonia Republic", but it is certain that it will remain quite "Macedonia", even for the sake of briefness. Secondly, the first time we recognize Macedonian as language. I refer you to an article of “Kathimerini”, “Aggelos Syrigos” and “Evanthi Hatziesvaliou”, dated 21-1-19. Thirdly, there are signs that can bring the aluterism back to the fore, for example, a group, the Uranium Arc, which is also officially there in Greece, and you believe it and you recognize it. I think it's treachery for my country. If they want to set up, for example, an institution for the study, promotion and promotion of Macedonian language or an organisation of other Macedonians, it will be very difficult to deal with them legally, having accepted the Prespecies Agreement, the existence of Macedonian language. Fourthly and more importantly, their nationality will be Macedonian but also a parentheses. In order to satisfy the Albanians of the two parties citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, the term 'nationality' is used and so we have citizenship and nationality. Gentlemen, history is the canvass of the future and the agreement that is imposed is irreversibly binding on the country. You moved on to it without any briefing of the House, while in 2008 the government's contacts with the political forces of the place were continuous and continuous. You deliberately ignore that international conventions are not laws that change with other laws. You know that very well. I hope that the people will always live in peace, without problems, but the Balkans have been Europe's silhouette and the present conditions make me afraid of future bloodshed and national mutilation, which, if it happens, we will not live it, but we will deliver it to the next generations. I don't want it to happen. You are constantly talking as glossaries about magical solutions and twitching, about best possible solutions. For me the best possible solution on the subject would be to completely forget about the use of the name "Macedonia" that they have for seventy-five years ago and about the history that Mr. Tsakalotos told us about Socrates, I would tell him a lot more about Aristotle, Alexander the Great, Philip, not to say about the sun of Berna. One hundred and forty countries of the world recognize it as Macedonia and all the countries of the world do not recognize it. Not to recognize her, we have the problem. Our signature will put them in two organizations, NATO and Europe called "Macedonia" and so on. That's what we don't want. Prime Minister, you are a leader, and as such you are characterized by swornness, aggression, panic, audacity, divisional speech and actions. You blame the opponents and especially us. You're saying we're savages and german germans. You promise yourself "the abolition of memoranda with a law and an article". You say that "you will burden the duoul and the markets will dance" "or we finish them or end them", - if it is not split - and then you divide the Greeks and join the Skopje. It is impossible to reach agreement with you, so I am voting against the agreement. The people will judge you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u177	Thank you Mr George Vayonas, Member of the New Democracy Halkidiki. Mr. Helena Koudoura has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this supreme parliamentary procedure, we must all put ourselves in a clear and clear position without micro-political games and political impressions, which have been observed in recent days and weeks. I have been Minister of Tourism of the Government for the last four years. It was my national duty to support the government in order to continue to complete its work and the mandate that we received from the Greek people to take the country out of the memoranda. Nothing today reminds Greece of the picture before 2015. Our government has worked hard and systematicly to restore social injustices and to ensure conditions of stability and growth, so that the sacrifices of the Greek people are not lost. I could never allow this government's progress to be violently halted and the major institutional interventions announced by the Prime Minister of the country to be carried out and immediately launched, such as the abolition of the pension cut, the revision of the Constitution and, in particular, the revision of the article on the responsibility of Ministers, the protection of first residence, the abolition of the minimum wage and the increase in the minimum wage, which will lead to the increase in allowances, the reduction of taxation and insurance contributions, the regulation of the hundreds of twenty instalments and all reforms under way, in the interests of Greek society, the fight against corruption and the return of justice. In these four very important years for Greece we have achieved historical records in all tourist sizes and annual growth rates of twice the world average. With the strategy that we designed and implemented with a lot of hard work we secured nine million extra international arrivals compared to 2014, an increase of over 35% in four years and a total of thirty-three million arrivals for 2018. We have significantly strengthened national revenues and have, for example, increased purely tourist revenues over EUR 3 billion over the past two years. Tourism supported Greece's economy, contributing directly and indirectly to around 50 billion euros in the country's GDP. It has contributed to the development of almost all the productive sectors of the economy and has led to an investment explosion. He created new revenues and gave jobs to thousands of our fellow citizens, contributing to the reduction of unemployment by 10 points, from 28% received in 2014 to 18% in 2018. We claimed the image of our country worldwide and introduced Greece as a leading tourist destination. After four years of continuous success and rise, 2019 is a difficult and demanding year with significant challenges, which we need to manage: continuous elections across Europe, Brexit and shocks that are expected to create in the European economy, cheap destinations that, in order to recover tourists, adopt aggressive subsidies and have compared to us multiple funds for their tourist promotion and advertising. The responsibility is enormous and in spite of the challenges, I must continue to work to ensure the upward trend that we have achieved over the years in tourism at the same pace as this year. Tourism is a national case. As regards the Prespecies Agreement, at the first time I had been in favour of the national proposal, as it had been reflected in the programming statements by Kostas Karamanlis, which at the time had the acceptance of the Greek people and the majority of the political parties, a position that New Democracy reiterated that it was fully valid as its official position in January 2018. My reservations a year ago were bypassed when all the contentious points of the agreement that created reactions were cleared up and I communicated that to my parliamentary group at that time, and I reiterated this at the Intergovernmental Ministerial Council in October, stressing my constitutional right to vote consciously. The agreement is coming to give a solution to a historic loose end. It is in favour of peace, peoples' solidarity, economic and social progress in a turbulent neighbourhood in Europe. It provides a fair and sustainable solution to a problem of decades and is patriotically correct and nationally beneficial. We are closing wounds at our northern border that maintained hatred and division and opening new prospects in our bilateral relations, in the hope of a common European future. Most importantly, however, it strengthens our country's role in the Balkans and will bring stability and peace to the wider region. The positive vote is the really patriotic attitude, and we owe this to our country and to the next generations. In conclusion, I would like to state my sympathy to my colleague Mrs Theodora Jacquez for the murderous attack on her and against her family. I condemn all forms of violence, the attempts at terrorism and targeting that are directed against our democracy. Such criminal acts are the result of disastrous propaganda, hatred and division sown by Civic Anti-Civilization, which does not hesitate to undermine the national interest for temporary political benefit. With its current silence and tolerance, its officials have encouraged extreme and dangerous behaviours against parliamentarians with a different political position and placement. In recent times various lies and slanders have been written against me for the cost of my service movements and telephones, which are the property of the Greek state. I have suffered terrible attacks on my family and immoral attacks on my morale and my dead father. Mr Adonis Georgiadis, who comes from an extreme space, rather than politically placed in his speech, has been attacked by personal attacks on me with obsessedness and has targeted me. I give you indicative statements from Mr Adoni Georgiadis either from the Step of the House or from television and radio media which repeatedly target me and which are reproduced. [[At this point, the Minister for Tourism, Mr Helena Kountoura, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Adonis Georgiadis gave the right to political coverage of fascist elements to intimidate my family and me, to take pictures of dead women, to receive threatening calls and threatening messages on my mobile, but also through the Internet. For example, I testify to threats, terrorism, intimidation for me and my family. [[At this point, Minister Elena Koudoura presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If anything happens to my family and to me, responsibilities will be borne not only by the perpetrators, but also by the moral perpetrators. I have not succumbed and will not intimidate intimidation and blackmail and I do not negotiate my constitutional right to vote in conscience. Throughout my political path I take seriously and responsibly for the good of our country over every party benefit, above all political and personal costs, with national interests alone. I call upon all the forces of the democratic arch with braveness to create a wall of protection against this fascist threat and to condemn them and isolate them. In democracy there are no deadlocks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Minister of Tourism, Mr. Koudoura. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Stergios Giannakis, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in the national Parliament at historic and critical times. We are living a national retreat of historical proportions. This is the first time since 1974 that national, cultural and historical obstacles have been allocated. Unfortunately, all this is assigned as a mere piece of legislation. We are giving Macedonia's name, history, identity and dismissing our national interests in a shameful, leody, and heterogeneous agreement to Skopje. "If Skopje is not a threat at the moment, no one can predict and guarantee which combinations of forces will emerge in the near future or in the far future in the Balkans and the wider region. The Member States do not live with today alone. They must remember yesterday so they won't live it again tomorrow." Who said that, ladies and gentlemen? As of February 1992, Constantine Karamanlis, a leader who has always been in front and history, told them. What no previous government dared by you, insulting the deepest identity of the Greek people coming out on the streets protesting, with the expectation that you can get the message and get back. With your secret diplomacy and your methods you are testing the framework of the operation of our democratic culture and especially the national unity of the Greek people. No democrat and patriot wants to see such phenomena that, as many times as have emerged, have disastrous consequences for Hellenism. Is that what you want? The national division? Do you not care that with your political tactics, political divisive behaviour and the short-term utilization of MPs from various places, do you also create unnecessarily trauma to our parliamentary function? I will not go into the obvious abandonment of the erga omnes. There is no presumption in any text that ‘for all uses’ is not available. In Article 7(3) of the Prespecies Agreement, we read: 'With regard to the second part' - Skopje - 'in terms of 'Macedonia' and 'Macedonia' means the territory, population and their characteristics, with their own history, culture and heritage'. Here's what we delivered. We have given language, given citizenship, and unfortunately with the diplomatic communication that we have come, and people, because the diplomatic communication says that there is a Macedonian people for the first time. And only Article 36 annuls any claim for the abolition of the Skopje-side alphabetically. What does this creepy report mean to you? "Democracy guarantees specific social security rights to veterans of the anti-fascist war and to all Macedonian national liberation wars, to the disabled of war, to persecuted and imprisoned for the ideas of separate identity, the Macedonian people and the Macedonian state of affairs, as well as to their family members without means of material and social life. Such rights shall be governed by the law.’ What more does it need to become aware of Skopje’s continuing altutism, despite the contrary claims? Ladies and gentlemen, who are the Macedonian national liberation wars? It is obvious that they refer to the claim of our own Macedonia. In addition, Article 49 raises unambiguous issues of Macedonian minorities in neighbouring countries. They have sent us the amendments without sending us the final text of the amendments. How will you vote, ladies and gentlemen, 'yes' on a text that you do not know is final? To conclude, I wonder if you are considering the responsibility you assume for the future generations of the Greeks, because beyond your vote in here, beyond the verdict of citizens out there, there is also history and that does neither favor nor darkness. I sincerely regret that many of you will finish your political presence with such a stigma on you. It may have been two and a half thousand years, and yet, the Nightmare did not forget him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr Stergios Giannakis, MP of the New Democracy. Mr Nzimanis Georgios has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prespecies Agreement upgrades the geostrategic role of Greece and strengthens the security of the region, depriving Greece of a bite of Turkish influence on our eastern and northern borders. It creates a climate of confidence, cooperation, co-development and tighten relations between the peoples, according to the visions of the King. It solves historical flaws of centuries, which were a wound and political tool and on top of them were built political and church careers. In the face of ratification of the agreement two worlds are involved, the world of solidarity and peaceful coexistence of peoples with the world of nationalism, the world of open societies with closed societies, the world of patriotic responsibility for the future of Europe and the Balkans with the world of populism, political irresponsibility, bilingualism, fear and insecurity. The Balkans have historically been designated as Europe's silicon warehouse. Their borders are guaranteed by the Treaty of Bucharest in 1913. With this treaty, the geographical region of Macedonia was divided into three countries. Greece, with this treaty, took almost all of the ancient Greek Macedonia, which the Macedonians and the Greek Army watered with their blood. So Greek Macedonia is Greek and no one can take it from us. With the creation of Yugoslavia, the Republic of Macedonia was established for political purposes due to the Cold War and not only was there no reaction from the then Greek governments that made agreements in the name of that country, but also the school books of geography and the school and military maps portray our northern neighbour as "Macedonia". With the break-up of Yugoslavia, our northern neighbour was identified by the name "Macedonia" because of the bad manipulations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Antonis Samaras, who, on the one hand, created the problem and, on the other, made political career as a Macedonian. Subsequently, with the Interim Agreement, this country was called FYROM and in the course of which the national line, which provided for a complex name by geographical identification of erga omnes, was created. This line was rejected by the nationalist Prime Minister of FYROM Gruevski in Bucharest in 2008. After Bucharest, Greece remains on the national line, as is demonstrated by the statements by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Mr. Avramopoulos and Mr. Venizelos, but we had no progress until the Government of FYROM came to the Government of FYROM. Our government raised the bar higher than the national line, and for the first time the issue of revising the neighbour's constitution was raised to resolve all the outstanding issues. That is where six Prime Ministers failed because they did not catch national targets, Alexis Tsipras did it. The Civic Opposition, by not accepting this success of the government, tries to divide the Greek people, by exploiting its patriotism, sensitivity and concern for national issues. By abandoning the national line and in essence without any position, the Civic Opposition does not defend its national interests but its microparties, closing the eye to its right. The Embassy Agreement created a problem of identity, not only in the New Democracy, but also in KINAL, because the European political groups belonging to these parties are the only ones who do not accept the agreement. Turning back to the text of the agreement, I have to point out the following: the agreement has no winners and winners. It respects the values, lines and dignity of the two peoples. Refugee the aluterism. It is not humiliating on either side, and that is why it is sustainable. Recognises the neighboring country in a complex name with a geographical designation "North Macedonia" erga omnes, stressing that the inhabitants of that country have nothing to do with the ancient Greeks, thus preserving our national heritage and history. The name ‘Macedonia’, by which the majority of UN spaces recognised the neighbouring country, will henceforth be replaced by ‘North Macedonia’. The language is referred to as "Macedonian" and is stressed to be part of the group of southern Slavic languages. Citizenship and citizenship are not concerned with ethnicity, as is pointed out in the private communication sent to the Greek Government. In addition, the agreement in its second part includes bilateral cooperation in the political, social, economic, educational and cultural fields. Finally, the agreement comes at a time when it is very favourable for the two countries. On the one hand we have the moderate government of Zaev, and on the other hand we have the government of SYRIZA, which insists on exercising foreign policy despite the will of the Macedonian leaders, the hierarchs and the associations of Elephants. The Embassy Agreement deals with the Macedonian issue, which re-equipped the extreme right after the post-population process, which is the swimming pool of Siloam. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for each of us to choose which side of the story is going to go. Are we going on the side of the squeeze, of merciful and Balkan provincialism or of the open horizons, of refreshing with the future and of creative democratic patriotism? Times are wicked. There is a need for cooling, restraint and determination, and for those who do not vote, for reasons of conscience or opposition, let them do so with a sense of responsibility and abstain from the voices of treason, which have in the past created national divisions. And finally, those who had a government service in the last thirty years must feel lucky, because another takes the political cost of the craving they have created. In the above considerations, I declare that I will vote for the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Nzimani, Mr. Kosanis of SYRIZA. Let's move on with Mr Christos Antoniou, SYRIZA's MP. Mr. Antoniou, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u184	Ladies and gentlemen, today's parliamentary procedure has historical significance and dimension. We are discussing the ratification of an agreement on a problem that has troubled our foreign policy for many decades and, above all, we must ask ourselves: firstly, whether we need a solution to this historic lack of transparency. Secondly, if the Embassy Agreement, which is a product of compromise on the one hand, ensures national objectives and Greek interests. Thirdly, if the agreement moves within the national line as it has been drawn up over the past twenty years. And fourthly, if it opens up cooperation, friendship and positive development paths for the two countries and the Balkans. We also need to ask ourselves and answer what would happen if we did not have an agreement. What would the consequences of this choice for Greece and Greece? We need to discuss calmly, as the circumstances and the responsibility of each of us in this Chamber require, without slogans, screams and launching of insulting and hurting characterisations. But let's see where the truth is and where the lie is, about the deal. Extreme nationalists on either side refuse the agreement with exactly the same arguments. I read a VMRO press release following the completion of constitutional changes in the neighbouring country. "Zaev and Demetrov have rejected everything that Macedonian". "Zeev is a traitor and does not have the trust of the Macedonian people." "Macedonia comes humiliated and kneeled." 'The national interests of Macedonia are being exploited.' That is the view of nationalists in our northern neighbour. Let's see what fanatics say at the rally respectively. But let us enter the cold numerical evaluation of the agreement, namely what we are gaining and what we are losing as a country. Firstly, we are winning Greek Macedonia, the Greek geographical entity of Macedonia, which was disappeared from the international maps and the international diplomatic scene. We win the history and culture of ancient Macedonia. We win the identification of the language as a South-Slavic dialect and not as a language of the ancient Macedonians. It distinguishes the place of northern Macedonia from all, which is our Macedonia. What do we have, however, now and what is the case with this matter? We have the current Interim Agreement, which was signed in 1995. What does it provide for in relation to the name? FYROM only for international use, which is a complex name that includes the name Macedonia, but only for abroad. Within their constitutional name is the Republic of Macedonia well. It has been recognized by a hundred forty countries, the most powerful on the planet. Macedonia reports all the news agencies and the press internationally, Heads of State, etc. They call them just Macedonia. Only we call them FYROM or Skopje or anything else. Classical Greek ostrichism. If this situation remains, will it be nationally beneficial? Won't it make a fait accompli in a few years? Is there no danger or certainty that Macedonia will be permanently left? Who is hurting and who is benefiting from this prospect? Does our country benefit from the extension of this loose end? Time works for us, for our own national interests? Any negative results and results, created in the sense of inaction and in the name of temporary political costs, must remain the same? Where do they drive? The answer is that they lead us to lose the name issue, as Macedonia will prevail, to undermining the prospects of peaceful coexistence, friendship, cooperation for the benefit of both countries and the wider region, to maintaining the Balkans' geopolitical instability area with serious negative consequences for our country as well. Ladies and gentlemen, before us we have a historic opportunity and a historic opportunity. Let's not waste it, let's not kick it in the name of micro-political pursuits and micro-party purposes. The future historians will be very strict with us. We keep the story, the one that belongs to us, but we look forward to future generations as well. The agreement sets the framework for the peaceful coexistence of the two peoples and opens up positive prospects for the future. If we look at her statically, it's the wrong perspective. We must see it in its perspective and in its openness. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I will not refer either to the security differences that ensure our country or to the individual issues of ethnicity, citizenship that have been developed by colleagues. I will just say that the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, have no problem with the agreement. He has a problem with the government and SYRIZA, for whom he does not want to complete his work, does not want to go ahead with any positive measures which have been announced and launched. Hence, it is working, to use an expression that is fashioned, a national issue in order to gain political and election profits. The New Democracy and Mr. Mitsotakis have a strong power deprivation syndrome. However, the problem of the New Democracy will not become a problem for the country. The people once again will turn their backs. Now fanatics and misinformed people may talk and make more noise. When the time comes, reasonable people will also speak and unfortunately for you they are still the majority in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr Christos Antoniou, MP of SYRIZA. Mr Christos Boukokouros has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to inform the Ministers present and the Minister for Tourism that the New Democracy is the political force which condemns violence in a clear, unrevolted way and astronauts, wherever it comes from, whatever it is affected. He did the same in the last cases. I don't know if SYRIZA and ANEL have to show us a lot of clean, non-spinning announcements for the period 2012-2014, when they were beating MPs, when they opened heads. So we should not have selective sensitivities. And in order not to become a personal subject, Minister, I would be less disturbed by what my political opponents have said, because the context of political confrontation is often - badly - hard and slippery, and I would be more disturbed by what the man who has proposed to me for the Minister has said, and has been constantly saying and shouting lately. Just four years ago, ladies and gentlemen, as tomorrow, the Greek people, deceived of your monstrous lies and the unprecedented climate of division that you had cultivated, voted for the Memorandums, to give up the wages and pensions. Just four years later, he finds out that you have given the public property for ninety years and now you are struggling with our national interests in Macedonia. Did the Greek people authorize you in 2015? You are now pretending to serve the 2008 Bucharest national line, erga omnes for all uses inside and abroad. Is there an erga omnes with Macedonian citizenship - ethnicity and Macedonian language? Not to mention registration plates, products and more. National line would exist if there were North-Macedonian citizenship and North-Macedonian language for all uses. You're out of line. Stay untreatedly attached to the Syrian line of incontinental ideation. Is there a national line to identify a Macedonian people inside and outside this country? Many, some wishing persons from the centre-right area, but also some supposedly neocaramanlinists on the left, invoke the Agreement in Bucharest in 2008. But Kostas Karamanlis' announcement came today and what did he say to you? He told you four things. Firstly, you did not seek national understanding. Secondly, you did not have to sign this agreement now. Thirdly, you have ignored the will of the Greek people. And, the most important thing he told you, is that it's not erga omnes this deal. So stop invoking opinions and positions that do not belong to you and with which, vertically, you disagree. The people are against the agreement. He fills the squares, stirs his wrath, calls for a referendum. The Minister responsible told the committee that it was the same in the context of the debate on the constitutional review that he proposed referendums on national issues by collecting five hundred thousand signatures. But how will another people decide on the name of a neighbouring people at the same time? The Greek people are not asking for a referendum on this. It calls for a referendum to be placed for the whole of the agreement and if it had to be signed now. It is a straitjacket and a distortion of events and reality all the time. So why do you decide in the absence of the Greek people? You passed a referendum in 2015 on a financial issue - the government did so, as it did not have to - and today, as the Constitution provides for national issues, avoids it like the devil. Anyone who looks at Article 36 of the Skopje constitution, in conjunction with Amendments 33, 34, 36, will appall. It is the article and the amendments that constitute the womb of the alpine sperm, an article which does not change and which speak of decisions by ASNOM - the Anti-Fascist Assembly of Macedonia's People's Liberation - which clearly speak of Macedonian nation and of fascist occupation in Greece and Bulgaria, which should be liberated and acquired territorial and national sovereignty. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] All these monsters remain the same and unchangeable and you sign them. Read the lyrics of the neighboring national anthem, to know what you sign. I'll testify to him translated. I read you from the Skopje National Anthem: "Today a new sun of freedom is born in Macedonia. From the outset, the flag is flying the Republic of Krzevo's.' Do you know what the Republic of Krasevos is? It's the Illinden revolution, it's the epitome of alutritism for the neighbouring country. It's what you went to sign in the first place, and your reactions prevented you. Does anyone in this Chamber think that the next generations of Skopje will be nurtured with the 35th annex to the constitution and not with the national anthem of the country? I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Boukoros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You confirm today with your choices and your vote that you have always been with the wrong side of history, because with your signature and your vote, as I said before, you are resurrected issues that had been enlisted after much and unjust blood on either side and had finally passed on to the oblivion of history. And with this deal you're stirring up. You are also confirming today your choices, so what we always say, at all critical times you are on the opposite side. That is why you have always been a small - almost marginal - party. The difficult circumstances and the imperceptible populism that dominated you have made you a government. You are today with the wrong side of history and with the wars of our national interests. That is why you will soon be back where you belong and become a small and mortal party again. Your occasional rise, unfortunately, gives you the opportunity to turn every dark idea into politics. But do you not think that you are, from time to time and not occasionally, a very small party to commit such a major blow against our national interests?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u188	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u189	You're still in opposition!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Comrade, don't have a dialogue now! We're wasting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u191	My vote, ladies and gentlemen, is a given one. It is the day for the great 'no'. You don't even have to vote. Mr. Matthew Nimitz voted for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u192	Nimitz is SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u193	You say that you are fighting nationalism, but greenhouse for nationalism is the wounds to a people. It's the plague of his pride, it's the demolition of his dignity. It's a feeling they're deciding on important issues for him without him. These are the greenhouses of nationalism and you are responsible. Not the Ambassadors' deal!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u194	Thank you. The Minister, Mrs. Gerovas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u195	Mr Bukkoro, although I do not like to say it in titles, I will say it: we are a big party on the right side of history and we have finished the memos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u196	The story will tell.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u197	History will judge us all anyway, but I'm talking about the present, I'm talking about now, and I'm saying that's what happens now. Now whoever doesn't see them, what can I say? You know, sometimes in this Chamber, it develops a rhetoric which is mainly - let us say - a policy of impression, no policy of solutions, no policy of logic and, of course, no policy of logic. It contains titles, chips, to say and leave images, to leave impressions, but not to talk about the essence. You know, however, that this rhetoric that focuses on diversification, conflict and not common place is not a rhetoric that can give solutions, what is required by the Greek Parliament today. I just wanted to remind you, however, that this is not such an hour, because today is a historic moment. It is a moment when the country is given the chance to solve the so-called Macedonian, a problem which has made our country afflicted decades with consequences, not without consequences. And also, to say that there is no second chance, there is no third chance. These opportunities have passed and have finally ended, and of course they have been exhausted and unsuccessfully exhausted. So those who want to impress a party audience think that today they should show self-restraint and at other times that are smaller - let us say - important can happen too. I would therefore like to call on the opposition and, at the moment, to count on the common place and the national objective and to leave the hypocritical and divisive reason. Today we tell the Greek people all the truth and when I say 'today', I mean during the whole meeting. In these opportunities, therefore, when they were lost, there were wise voices in the parties as well. Both the PASOK and the New Democracy had sound, realistic voices, but they did not prevail, succumb to nationalist pressures, political costs, voting logic. This, then, had consequences for our country. It had consequences of losing diplomatic capital, losing in international bases, in the economy, even in a part of our history. Our government has handled it with determination and reached the present agreement, an agreement that, as we all know, means compromises, and you give and take. And of course, you never attempt to drive your opponent to humiliation or absolute humiliation, as some would like. In these cases there is no solution. There is only perpetuation of conflict and deadlock. In the neighbouring country there was caution. Despite all the nationalist voices and there, the government went on. They moved in the interest of their country and were not taken away from the corresponding voices we have in our own country. And I would remind you here of the unhelpful - the opposite - decision of the Hague Court, which did not give the right to veto the name "Macedonia" or "neighbourhood" or "no other country" and I mean from our country. So it was an adverse decision of the Hague Court, which is also dragging on over the years. We have therefore reached a beneficial and honest agreement. The positive results will not be long enough to show. Greece's role is strengthened in the Balkans. The Balkans are becoming safe, they open paths of economic development with a significant benefit to Greek Macedonia as well. And in truth, we have given nothing, nor the minimum real capital of the soul, as defined by each Greek and every Greek from the history of ancient Macedonia. At such a time, then, the attitude of Mr Mitsotakis - enclaved is Mr Mitsotakis from baron right-wing barons - is to fall from one blow to the other, ignoring the traditions and positions of the classical liberal New Democracy that we all knew. [[At this point, the warning bell ends the speech time of the Minister]] I will not be late, Mr President. However, Mr Mitsotakis' attitude and hypocrisy involves. He wants the deal, but he does not want it to be charged as a profit to the SYRIZA government and the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras. And they know that the government has achieved what it could actually achieve, maximum than what it could achieve more. However, our colleagues here in New Democracy have also adopted a phrase that offends both aesthetics and political speech. And the officers of Officership compete in the search for the most impressive line. The political scene, however, requires that decisions are made on the real life and fate of the people. And I am sorry that a historic party, a conservative liberal party, is moving out of the right today. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like two more minutes, Mr President. A few days ago from this Step I informed the House of the para-state practices aimed at insurmountables, with threats from MPs and their families. I pointed out - and it was publicly revealed - that these were also motivated by New Democracy officials who were not condemned, by names and addresses. I have called on everyone to condemn those who motivate and urge violence, even against the representatives of the Greek Parliament. Mr. Mitsotakis has been quietly silenced. There are exceptions - I said this again - such as Mr Kaklamanis, Mrs Bakoyannis. You know, however, the general phrase: 'I condemn violence wherever it comes' does not call violence. When it was from terrorism, you said: 'We condemn terrorism'. We say so, too. Here, for the far right, why don't you dare say the word? Mrs. Switching Right has been hit. Last Sunday, then, we saw, at an obviously peacefully predisposed gathering, the organized right-wing plan to enter the House. That's what the President of Parliament said, I said, the Greek Police Headquarters said in his announcement. And today, when I discussed with the people of MAs - I met them today - who were on the steps of the Greek Parliament, I was told by all children that such violence, hatred, has never met before. And that's what MAT people are saying that's in the streets and they're in conflict. There have been material disasters in this Parliament, twenty-eight injured policemen, violence in photojournalists who professionally covered the rally, targeted, with their names, with photos. One participated in the creation of the Golden Dawn documentary. So there is audiovisual material, photographs, statements of MPs, journalists, and all these days huge documents are formed. Instead, what did we hear? We heard the Chief of the Greek Police executes SYRIZA's orders. That's what we heard. It is a slippery attitude, ladies and gentlemen, and it undermines the credibility and safety that you are supposedly being cut off on a daily basis. The police - and I will close with this - in the attempt of the right-wing cord to force in the House - have also been designs for today - reacted with coolness, operational determination and protected democracy. That's what the Greek police did. The attacks against Members, against Mrs Vultesis, at the symposium, against our Larisa MP, Mrs Kastoris, against Mrs Jakri, are hitting the alarm bell for democratic normality. We don't want to be Greece, be a Europe of Orban, Salvini, murderers of the Physsa and murderers of the mayor of Gdansk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u200	What exactly do you want, Mr. Georgiadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u201	I would like the floor on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u202	I think he didn't say anything to affect you, but in any case, if we don't waste time, you have two minutes to develop your staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, this is a first issue on all the news. If you see on the Internet, on all the news sites, the first topic is the statements made by Ms. Koundoura...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Georgiadis, I'll give you the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much. Minister, firstly I condemn any attack on you, against anyone, and every photo you are sent to you, as you have said, and any threat to your face or family. I would have been very happy if you had done so in 2012, when you had gone to the Independent Greeks and people like me, who voted for the program that you finally supported, we had 200 mails a day in our account, where they accused us, our children and our families. But then I didn't see you being so sensitive to me. However, since you have said much more, I have to say to you: yes, the Member has a constitutional right of conscience. But when it reaches a point, Mrs Koudoura, where she has a huge dimension with what she has said in the past and on the basis of the mandate given by his constituents, she votes for what she thinks and resigns. He doesn't exchange his conscience with a ministerial chair, like you did. We would therefore honour you if you had the courage to say: 'I am voting and I resign'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Georgiadis, now don't you think you're creating a personal problem? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u207	But you came here crying and attacked me. But you forgot that the one who revealed that your father wrote the anthem of April 21st, it wasn't me, Mrs. Kouduras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Georgiadis, now don't you know you're creating a personal problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u209	He was Mr. Kammenos, whom you had Chief until yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u210	But is that possible?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u211	And I was surprised to see that you said nothing about Mr. Kammenos who accused you of all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u212	However, this speech has nothing to do with personal problems. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u213	That's why we accuse you of being all chicokes, and that's why we accuse you of selling Macedonia, to be Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ms. Kouduras! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u214	Mrs. Kundura, do you want to make a comment or do you want to move on?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u215	In my speech that is exactly what I said, namely that Mr Georgiadis for some reason, instead of dealing with his own policy, he only deals with me. He's been targeting me for the last two weeks, and he's been talking to the worst. And he's hiding from it. I don't want to go on. I don't want to say anything else. You saw it yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u216	Good, Minister. Don't go on, so we don't have any staff again. Mr. Savvas Anastasiades has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou, I have an answer, because in your position you say that the New Democracy is moving to the extremes and of course it has no clear place. I must remind you that you and your party worked together in 2015 with the extremities you blame today, but you have an velvety relationship, and then overthrow the government. You have provoked elections. I must also tell you that our position and the position of Mr Mitsotakis, on the issue we are discussing, is clear and proclaimed. Don't try to interpret us. Your Government is trying to impose an agreement with which the vast majority of the Greek people disagree. That doesn't question it, of course you do. But you are consistent with your positions on the matter. This is a consistency with deep ideological features, a consistency with historical semantic features, public announcements and participation in mobilisations against our country...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u218	Our country?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u219	.. hug with the nationalists of VMRO.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u220	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u221	Not you. I'm not talking about you. I'm talking about your youth. You have accepted a painful agreement for the country, with serious consequences for Greece today and tomorrow, along with the ANELs and Mr Kammenos, because that is what this is about. No matter whether Mr. Kammenos with populous crowns is trying to rinse away his shame. You have defied everything that has been said by experts and scientists. You ignored the patriotic feelings of the Greek people. You ignored a policy of a hundred and fifty years that did not accept a monopolies for Macedonia's name and the identity of Macedonia. You have ignored that the name is the vehicle of alutism and accepted everything that the nationalists of Skopje asked for, because the same same thing was requested by the uncompromising Gruevski in 2008 by the government of New Democracy and Kostas Karamanlis. Today, the government accepted all of this, without any objections. The agreement itself has been analysed by many. Our rapporteur, Mr Kumouchakos, did so yesterday, as well as many colleagues. I won't try to do the same. Ladies and gentlemen, no one has said and never said 'no' to a good agreement. But we say 'no' to this bad agreement, because apart from the technical problems, the trademarks, the books and the omissions it has, the acceptance of the term 'Macedonian', the recognition of Macedonian language and Macedonian identity are the main prerequisites that make up the concept of ethnicity. That is what is happening with this agreement you're trying to impose with callous majorities. Without consciousness of your responsibility, you wrapped Greece into a glue of paper. You create huge problems that we will be called upon to face in the future. Undoubtedly, we will face challenges internally. It will be raised by a number of thermoplastics that are already being discussed. Already in some villages on the border, "Macedonian grafts". It's called the mayors of the district. Our country is not in a position today to stand up to such liquidity. On the outside, after an initial adjustment, what will prevail - and you know that - will be 'Macedonia'. The message we send to our side will be weakness and submissiveness and some may try to exploit it. You call on stability in the region, but you drive the country to great instability. Feed consciously the division between the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, you who, until yesterday, had other positions, and today you were thinking of supporting the agreement, which you have already changed, do not make the mistake. Look with a clear mind at the results this agreement produces. I'm sure you're in an internal conflict with your conscience. Think of the historical weight you will carry throughout your life. What is it that made you finally change your position? What is it, Mr. Bolaris, what made you change position compared to last January? Are you charmed by the temporary authority they offered you? Don't you think your vote will follow you as a nightmare a lifetime? Think about history, not on the basis of the juncture. Think of the history and the struggles of our ancestors. Think about what the story will write about you. There is time to withdraw your positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, may I have the floor for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u224	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, I am not used to respond to misery and advice from people who have not understood the essence of the debate that is taking place in the Chamber. The right-wing crowns are good. Let them hold them for their party audience, not for this Parliament level.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u226	Well, thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u227	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u228	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u229	But you were saying, Mr. Bolaris. Don't give up on that. Answer the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u230	Mr Christos Katsotis from the JRC has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. The Greek people, as a JRC, are addressing all of you who are now participating in struggles, protests, calling the slogans of the people, Americans. We invite you to call it louder today at 18.30' in Freedom Square, because not only did they become no peace pigeons, as the SYRIZA Government presents them, but they bleed more and more peoples. But what if the same coalition in Yugoslavia's bombings had taken the same distance from NATO and the European Union as Milosevic's supposedly ethnic cleansing? What can anyone say when they celebrated the Arab Spring with the tragic results of the imperialist intervention for the peoples of Libya, Egypt and Tunisia? What can anyone say when they did not make a fuss about yesterday's raw urge - intervention by the evil Trump in Venezuela for a coup d'état, with the same argument as the restoration of democracy? We appeal to all of you, who have been calling the slogan 'EEC and NATO war union' for years, expressing your complete opposition to the interventions, wars, the change of borders, the bloodshed of the peoples, but also to unemployment, poverty, the impoverishment of millions of workers and youth. We call on you to keep shouting more loudly, because NATO and the European Union are getting worse and worse, more dangerous for the people. Illegalism, nationalism, dismantling countries and peoples are hampering monopolistic and entrepreneurial groups. It is the dictatorship of capital, which levels the working class and the peoples. We call on you to condemn the government, which, with the advancement of the Left, is leading the way in the implementation of imperialist planning. He became the hinges in the area, according to the American ambassador. To react massively to all of these, young and old, who are coming to wash out NATO's murderous character, which are showing the power of destabilisation, the power of war as a force of peace and security. Give a mass response to all those who launder their criminal policy. And these are the cosmopolitans with the "yes" and the nationalists with the "no" as well as the New Democracy and the KINAL with their own shot "no". Isolate fascists, descendants of Nazi associates, junta imitators, the criminal organization of Golden Dawn. The "yes" of the government and those who agree with the "no" of all others have a common point that fully agrees: it is the "yes" of NATO, which SYRIZA, "the Nautian Left", as has been termed. They took the glory from New Democracy. With the expansion of NATO's conservative arm, the US, the European Union's planning to dominate their own monopolistic and business groups, hampering Russia and China's influence. We are in agreement with the JRC, in a joint fight against the imperialist war, NATO, the European Union, the bases, and against the anti-French anti-Flemish policy. The name may be geographically defined against everyone, but the seeds of the "Macedonian citizen", the "Macedonian language" are preserved, and this is not a matter of humiliation, Minister, as you said in your position. Neither was the new Macedonian language, nor was it, of course, a Macedonian nation. The Secretary-General, as well as other speakers of the JRC Parliamentary Group, has documented this position. The Government puts forward an argument against the JRC that it has the right of every people to define themselves. But are these not imperialist forces that used so-called self-determination as a tool with the Kosovars, Montenegro and Bosnians to break up Yugoslavia? Do they not use minorities to destabilise regions and states to change borders? Is that so, yes or no? What does this have to do with the struggle for self-determination by the yoke of imperialist forces, by the dictatorship of capital? This approach to self-determination is very dangerous and for what projects are being launched in our country. Are these plans working out, yes or no? The answer, unfortunately, is yes. In the wider region the interventions, the movement of powerful military forces, the establishment of new military bases are strengthened. SYRIZA with his far right-wing partner gave the US what they required for more effective implementation of its plans. They have become mediators of the United States and of the European Union to support military support, to sell armament programmes, to take a greater share in the region, of course in the business groups in our country and also in the neighbouring country. The JRC says 'no' to the dangerous designs of NATO and European Union imperialists, to peoples' butchers of monopolistic groups. It says "yes" in the agreement far from NATO, the United States and the European Union, far from the imperialists' "dividing and reigning", it says "yes" in the composite name with a strict geographical determination vis-à-vis everyone, with the removal of all the almonds from the neighbouring country's constitution, it says "no" in the acceptance of unscrupulous concepts of Macedonian nation or language. All in one section. Our position is deeply internationalist and serves the friendship of the peoples, peace in the region. Mr. Drasakis, you have chosen years against the camp. To the enemies of the working class and the majority of the people you have put your services so you are pretending you do not understand the internationalist position of the JRC. We are voting 'no' in the Presidencies' agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitrios Kyriazidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Today's bill should be entitled'sold'. The historic occasion demands today, in the name of the nation and the burden of its struggles, that we speak from this Step on the critical national issue with due respect for the history of our people and ultimately vote on behalf of not only the citizens who trusted us with their vote but also on behalf of those who have passed and those who will pass through this country for the future generations. There have been several times hard times for our country, moments when this land was lost, conquered by invaders, lost battles with powerful opponents. In these historic times, compelling compromises and retreats were attempted. In time, however, peace and normality, with an established international and regional presence, does not mean that our country surrenders its history, retreat to such an extent and betrays the sacred and loyalness of the nation. It does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, that the Greek Parliament, in other words the Greek people, should be called upon to ratify a shameful agreement with which the holy name of Macedonia is handed over to a neighbour who historically, geographically, culturally and socially has nothing to do with that name and the Greeks. No matter how many times I read this accustomed Prespecies Agreement, I was unable to see what historical need led the SYRIZA and ANEL government to this dishonourable, vile and resulting treacherous slogan. They only say that, as a party, there was this signature. I was not honestly able to understand what the benefits of an agreement delivering a name, nationality, language to a state entity, which is not historically and politically legitimate to claim them. Ultimately, what nationality do you assign? What language are you dismissing? How many sacrifices of our ancestors are you denying? What are you going to tell the inhabitants of the martyr Doxatos, the activated Separator, the Volakas, the Micropolis, the bloody villages of Lower Neropoly, the Protosani, the Paradesteios, the Nikiforos, the Cygis, the law that I represent? What explanation will you give all these fellow citizens, who each house mourns dead - heroes of the Macedonian Struggle? I wonder, gentlemen, after giving a name, nationality and language, what else is left to give the Skopje? You gave it all and you didn't get anything at all, except a lazy erga omnes and a phony for our ancient history. Are these worthy to justify our children and our grandchildren the sale of Macedonia? Are they worth the national retreat you've made? SYRIZA said it was in favour of popular sovereignty and all forms of expression, through elections and referendums. Now what happened? What's changed? Why your democratic sensitivities are self-limiting and insisting in this unprecedented way to support a vile agreement that clearly opposes our people. What frightens you to ask the ordinary citizen. What commitments do you make to whom? What political exchanges did you get from whom? Of course, all this is self-proof and they are responding to what you are concerned with, as it was within the prerequisites for the occupation of power instead of a lentil. And you will continue to ally with the devil for your stay in power, sacrificing principles and values that have held this country up for centuries. And right to the only thing that you are not inconsistent is in the sale of Macedonia, because you are indeed involved with the people's killers, the Americans, as you have told them, and their satellites. We also saw it with your relevant declaration, which was posted in "AGEAN" in 2008, in which you mentioned hypocritically about this Macedonia as a constitutional name based on Macedonia. And, of course, you also manage against NATO, that it is the machine that is corrupting and dominating everything. That is what you said then, as did SYRIZA's youth in 2008, located in Skopje with Mrs. Vovos, who also asked her to take over the authority in terms of SYRIZA. I now come to the individual issues which show the problem of the so-called amendments to the constitution. They pledged Skopje that significant changes will have been made by the end of 2008 and the financial communication was made days ago. Does this not result in the legal binding of the agreement when the conditions we have set have not been complied with? He's talking about integrating into the constitution and modifying the name and lyrics, we didn't see them. There was an incorporation. Copys from the constitution just got yesterday. And we're wondering, what negotiation did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs make without the constitution that he just received yesterday? I shall submit a relevant document on the Minutes. So what are we going to vote on? A deal - 'pig in the sack'. You say that no differentiation should be made in relation to Skopje in NATO or in the European Union. Unfortunately, it is what we are repeating. And I come to Rule 7, Mr President. "Macedonia" and "Macedonia" - says the constitution as such - means for Skopje the territory, the language, the population and the traits with their own history and culture. In other words, we recognise detta - a geographical supremacy in Skopje as 'Macedonia'. Is there, after all, something we don't recognize? And how does the Greek Macedonia distinguish from that of Skopje recognised? And what would you call me tomorrow as a Macedonian MP? I want you to answer me. Let's see the future amendments: the Republic of Skopje guarantees and promotes the traits of the historic and cultural heritage of the Macedonian people. The Republic of Skopje provides for the dispersion of the Macedonian people and promotes ties with the country. I heard yesterday. Three Macedonians exist. We will soon also have a minority that we will try and recognise. So let's be serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u235	Mr President, we must remember the words of the relentless Constantine Karamanlis, a great Greek Macedonian political front to Macedonia's feathers. There is only one Macedonia, and that is Greek. Fifty thousand, in the Balkan wars, from Macedonia, were transferred to Kitsevo for forced labour. They could have a signature back. But they stayed there and died about 12 thousand in coercive works and the rest returned. And half of them! I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u236	Mr. Colleague, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u237	My family has victims in the Asia Minor campaign. One of my grandfathers - my father's father - left his bones in Afion Karahisar fighting for the homeland, the foster father in Grammos and Vicci after colds cut both knees so he could survive and then, for the liberation of Macedonia, two cousins. My mother's brother, 19, whose name I got, dedicated his life. It could again be with a signature, Mr President - like his cousin 21 - to declare everything and return. After three days, my grandfather went to the village where the massacre was made and found only the head of one. Ladies and gentlemen, you must rethink this. We all have a debt to our history that should guide us. Hellenism is mourning today in the face of its crucifixion, and that is why I am voting against the bill. Mr President, my patriots have instructed me to present the relevant agreement to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u240	My colleague Mr Athanasios Paphilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u241	All these days, but also since the debate on this issue has opened, all the parties of the American Arc, that is, traditionally New Democracy, KINAL, ANEL and others, and, of course, the leading champion of support for this American Arc, which has emerged from SYRIZA in recent times, have received the agreement from the second article which is the most important one. It is also extracted from the general developments in the world, in the wider region, in the Balkans, where the confrontation of imperialist US forces, NATO, the European Union, as well as other, such as Russia and China, is very strong in conflict with major monopolistic interests in all areas. Why are they avoiding talking about it? Just because they are dancing again at SYRIZA, and of course traditionally New Democracy, KINAL, centrals and others are in agreement with the US, NATO, the European Union, they all are loyally serving it. That's why no one denounces her. On the contrary, they accept it because it expresses the interests of the Greek bourgeoisie, beyond others. Wasn't it the same with the memorials? Two memorials, a New Democracy, a PASOK, a mixed one that SYRIZA would abolish, but incorporate them, bring a third memorandum and vote together. Agreement in the strategy. Dispute between individual and group. And you know, foreign policy is nothing special. It has the same class references as internal policy. It serves the same interests, as is the invasion of the people's layers, the interests of capital, whether at national or international level, as is foreign. This criterion always places the JRC in its history today. Mr Vernardakis asked a number of questions in the JRC, in a different way, seriously, despite the fact that he knows them in detail - so I imagine - unless he read them from "AGEI", from various other newspapers or from the trolls of SYRIZA that coordinate the communist movement and many others. And I say it, because not only he but other executives, as mentioned in the JRC's positions, are trying in a way of smuggling and selectivity to show that the JRC has changed its position on this matter and in general. We have a crystalline position on principles in the JRC. We don't like you. Nor do we change positions like shirts and so on, although this is under discussion about what positions there were. We have principles on the basis of the interests of the peoples and not of the imperialists. This is a position of patriotic and, at the same time, international. It responds to the interests of the workers themselves and the workers of the Balkans, not to mention the whole world. What is this position, both in 1992 and today? Firstly, what is the central problem for the Balkans? Suddenly the peoples went crazy and started to be slaughtered? Oh, no. It was the intervention of NATO and imperialism in the region, the dismantling of the single Yugoslavia at the time, not much more, the creation of protectors and the change of borders, which is happening today. What are we talking about today? Isn't that what we say? That the problem is naval intervention as a whole, imperialist antagonisms in the region and the attitude taken by smaller countries within the imperialist chain? That's what we're saying. Where have we changed? You've changed in part. And I mean the coalition then and SYRIZA today. Secondly, what we used to say about the name and cut the dirt and slander from various netizens. We were talking about a complex name with a strict geographical definition and we have no problem with the name of Northern Macedonia - to end this and we are saying this openly - nor were we in trouble with another name that would have a geographical designation. And then we stood against all the fascists, New Democracy, PASOK, opportunists, starring the patriarch of opportunism, the Cyrgy, who rabies then told us that we were out of the national body, that the JRC is out of legality, first the Cyrcus at the time, they called "outside Lakeidaimons". And we answered them that the Lakedimonians, however, went to the Thermopylae, as we historically did then, with this rabies attack. We went out on our feet. Then on this occasion that opportunism thought it would dismantle the JRC and did not succeed internally before joining an alliance with all the reactionary forces, then we stood up and said so, we suffered the consequences. Then we denounce and denounce nationalism, Illegalism, "Macedonia is one and Greek", which actually raises the question of the annulment of the Treaty of Bucharest. He does the same thing as Erdogan, who calls for the revision of the Lausanne Treaty and let the games be left by New Democracy and all the others who say that they do not understand that this position leads to nationalism with blind conflict outside the problems of the peoples of the Balkans. So we're saying it today. Thirdly, we were saying it, and we repeat it, that the anti-corrosion agents should leave. We did not accept and accept Macedonian ethnicity. It was a different composition in the '20s and whenever you want, and we're not going there to talk about it. We have no problem calling the Macedonian nationality, because such language and ethnicity, nor the Macedonian language was autonomous and exist. There's the Slav-Macedonian. How can it be? All of them. That terminology existed, not Macedonian. Why do you think that we are afraid or are cultivating the impression that Macedonia will understand us? No, of course not. However, history has shown that under imperialist domination problems are used or created as an excuse for interventions by imperialists, interventions by powerful monopolies that have other purposes. And that is why we believe that it could be solved differently, but it remains deliberately and can be used tomorrow. You're already up. Change the border, yes or no? NATO defending what it says? Union with Kosovo. What does he say to the Serbs? We'll give you the Republic of Bosnia as long as you get into NATO. Other developments are under way. It's volcano and volcanoes, you know, they're active and they're going to explode! This was our position and we said "peace, friendship, struggle against NATO, against capital". And peaceful coexistence has been realised, ladies and gentlemen. So many years all the urban parties cultivated their myth from North risk, yes or no? In the end, the socialist countries had ensured peaceful coexistence. Greece was never threatened by the North. On the contrary. You have put forward - and I say all urban parties - the danger from the North, you have found it from the east, which is Turkey, from the allied country that is in NATO. Tell us, at last, and you and you of the New Democracy and everyone else since 1952, are not in NATO? Has Turkish claims stopped or not? They've grown even further and will be intensified. And you know what else? Historically alliances change very quickly in times of crisis. And today a small, as before, state can play a role in this context, taking advantage of such issues. That's why we put these issues on. As for the logic of self-determination and Lenin, where did you dig him? Here you have disowned him morning, noon and night before and after food, all the previous years. And you know, if you take Lenin selectively, he's told everything. However, it says, firstly, that self-determination was at a time when the nation states had not formed. Secondly, it says that self-determination is subject to the strategic role of socialism. Thirdly, when it is not subjected to and serves other interests, it goes against him. Here, she's been answering you ever since. But use them all rather than the known method. And because you say self-destruct, Thrace is next door. The Rhodope Plans from the institutes of the CIA are still on the table. Diplomacy, it's not over, it's not over. And therefore, collect them and take good care of what you say. So what do we say? "The people of the Balkans unite, in imperialism, resist. Common struggle of the peoples." What do you all say together? "The people of the Balkans submit to the nato-Imperialist barbarism." We heard incrediblely, we thought we'd heard everything. We heard incredible things that, he says, it's an anti-imperialist agreement, that the agreement is progressive. In fact, who supports it? All the progressive leaders of humanity: Trump, Stolttenberg. In fact, Stoltenberg is threatening: 'If you do not do it, it will become the way to see the Balkans'. Nimic, big, progressive person mandated to misfortune imperialism. Merkel. And they even arrived here SYRIZA MPs saying that Merkel regretted and understood what would happen and that's why she keeps this position. And he doesn't see the crows of the German monopolies who want to fall on this country and in general. Macron, the big progressive technocrat and so on. I mean, the top representatives of imperialism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Finally, do not put EAM and ELAS into your mouth. Really, the EAM, the ELAS, the Left in general conflicted with imperialism or was it subjected to him? What did he do in December 1944 with the intervention of the English? It says, when the people are in front of the danger of tyranny, they choose the chains or the weapons. What do you say today that people are under the boot of imperialism? You're saying Imperialism to save us. Not to say that secret loves of some people expressed, who in previous years did not dare because of a correlation of powers to manifest him. What party? There is all too much opposition to the communist and left movement. No party is in favour of NATO, not one, except for some, not to say sold-out that they have arrived. No one is in favour of enlargement. You're the one who's claiming the lead. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And finally, what policy is the Prespecies Agreement? Separate? It turns out not. What is the government doing with the agreement of others, regardless of whether they are yelling? He serves American natonic and imperialist interests. Are we lying? I am addressing the progressive and left-wing world that still has deceit. Report by the US Ministry of Foreign Affairs, August, I submit it in the Minutes, so that there can be a monument: "Greece is a committed partner in promoting US interests inside and outside Greece". Do you hear them? The progressive SYRIZA government is this, along with everyone else. Disprove it and denounce it, if it is. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second issue. I'd say too much, but Mr. Vits isn't here. On F-16: Why do we take them, the Security Committee's report says? To support NATO operations by reducing the threats posed by the US and alliance enemies. And listen to the nicest. Our excellent bilateral relationship in the area of defence and security is vital, for our ability to extend Greek support to military activities and issues relating to law enforcement, the prefecture of the United States of America and NATO, namely fire, axe, destruction and Greece together. In this law of the new order, the "iron heel of imperialism" you submit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's go down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u242	Colleague, we've got fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, I should like to conclude with the report. It encourages Greece to take a leading role in the Balkans, is being cut off, the American imperialism of politics, NATO and others, including full implementation - those who know from a diplomatic language, understand that this is not an inducement - of the agreement on the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and continued support for the integration of the Western Balkans. And you get misunderstanding when we say you're a post office of the United States of America. It says in the parliamentary elections that our mission will encourage the government to remain market-friendly and open to US involvement. But you don't have to! You do it before they ask, this has proved to be a great deal. And finally, and please be careful. Report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs published, no JRC agent got it through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! Strengthen and develop civil society and others, promoting common values, reducing foreign influence, addressing misinformation and promoting a new generation of leaders, in favor of the USA and their values. Congratulations on the promotion, Mr Karterres, and a lot of others from the government, because others have been shown by your policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Colleague, you've finished your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u245	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u246	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u247	We don't fall, you know. "There's no left no," we've heard it before. What did PASOK say? Left psalmist on the right. What was New Democracy saying? JRC and PASOK are the same block. We're not the predestined ones. We've been here on the front line for a hundred years. In storms, in triumphs, in the most difficult times, and in the old days today, we stood up and did not chew from such slanders and from such logic of the type that the bud is an instrument, the ranger is an instrument, so the ranger is a bud. We're pulling forward. We call on the people to respond to the dilemma: with the people against imperialist barbarism and the JRC or with SYRIZA and the naval parties subjected to this impoverishment of humanity today? The connections are changing. And we'll win sooner or later. And he'll write you history like the last or the last defenders...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u248	Thank you. My colleague, Mr Megamystakas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today coming to discuss a very bad agreement, the worst draft law, the worst agreement you have brought into Parliament. You have even brought it, in a way that we cannot call it democratic. It is an agreement you have made, without national understanding, since there has never been a Council of Political Heads of State. You bring her today to discuss her in two days' time when you know that Members' interest will be very great. Two hundred ten MPs had to speak in these two days, together with the ministers, together with the heads of parliamentary parties. And we'll see you voting this deal at 5:00 at dawn, after all. You never informed the world of what you agreed on, beyond this two-minute video, which you made the day before when you said that this agreement would save the country. You have done nothing at all to prevent people from reacting if the agreement is as good as you are saying, which is a very bad agreement. Where's the Skopje constitution revised? Of course, not within the Greek Parliament. Why? Can I tell you why? Because Ivanov has probably not signed it, because these changes do not apply. They will only apply if we agree. We therefore agree, give everything and wait after the Skopje to ratify it. Is that what you wanted? And if that's what you wanted, why don't you tell the Greek people? You come to this step, I have listened to you in the committees, you who will vote and you have the first argument that a hundred and forty countries are called 'Macedonia'. They will now be called "Macedonia" and officially, with your own boulder. Of the G7, the majority have not recognized them. That's not official either. They cannot enter NATO or the European Union. You give them a chance. You ratify this agreement. You give them the name 'Macedonia'. Why don't you be fooled, they can't be called "North Macedonia" and "North Macedonians". Secondly, the fact that the Skopje opposition has reacted. And what do we care? Do you think the Greek citizen is interested in whether the Skopje extremists have reacted? They've taken everything. You have given them the name, language, citizenship, citizenship, as you want to say, you have basically given them ethnicity. You say Greece will become the centre of the Balkans, a guarantee force. What is it now? We are the most powerful state in the Balkans. No one's negotiating this. It also appears in the neighbouring country when the third investment power is Greece, Greek entrepreneurs. And when you know all this, you use as another argument that we will attract other tourists from Skopje. Well done. If that's what you think justifies you voting on this agreement, good for you. I heard one of your MPs saying: “And why should we have a referendum? Ask what? What if we call them Macedonia or Northern Macedonia?’ No, ladies and gentlemen, you will vote for this agreement. Oh, no. To see what the Greek people want. That is why you had to referendum, even now, at the last minute, as the neighbours did. Was it the neighbors' mistake to have a referendum? Oh, no. Was it wrong not to do so? Yeah, clear. You're saying that with this deal, the Skopje alutism will go away. Does one of you even think that the Skopje could ever claim from us something? Change the border? Such a small country that has no military power? Did anything happen all these years to this day? Oh, no. Is the deal gonna fix anything? Oh, no. And some of your MPs have dared to speak of Greece's anti-corruption positions, because we say Macedonia is one Greek. What are you talking about? Have you learned in any school, have you read a book in Greek or have you heard any Greek claiming anything from the Skopje? Let someone come up and give us an example of the people who will vote for the agreement. I don't have that in mind. And another MP, who said that he envys the agreement and wants a deal similar to the Turks for the Dodecanese, came along. What are you talking about? You're causing the common feeling, understand it. You are causing what you are saying here and as your last argument you have what is your permanent position. In 1992 at the rally, the Coalition was against giving a complex name to the neighbors. It was the "AGEY" that said that you grant cultural heritage by granting the name. None of your arguments stand. Let's go now and see what happens with the opposition, with the PASOK - New Democracy, as after the dissolution of the river there is no DESY. Their responsibility for not having solved all these years. A facility was created. We were the strong country and we had to claim what the Greek people wanted. What was fair, what was moral, what was legal, what we inherited, if you want to say otherwise. And we now see a confusion in both parliamentary groups. A terrible confusion. Half of them say that Macedonia is a Greek and others accept the complex name. I heard Minister of Macedonia - Thrace who belonged to the 2012 government and wondered how he could come today to defend our name and how it is possible for the government's gentlemen to give the name of Macedonia when he participated in a government that negotiated a complex name with Mr. Avramopoulos and with Mr. Venizelos. At the same time there are different views from one Vice-President and the other Vice-President of the New Democracy. One says that it does not accept the name and that New Democracy and the other has changed its position only for nationality or citizenship or citizenship, as you want to say, and the language. Show the Greek people that you are the serious party of the Right and take a position and a common line. When some of you had said a long time ago that if we vote we respect the continuity of the state, when you welcome MPs and also executives who will go to the next ballots in the next elections, who see this agreement positively, what do you want people to believe? Why didn't you cause debate with all the leaders of the political parties? You were given the opportunity to show what the position of each party was. Why didn't you? Ask yourself and answer the Greek people. The same confusion exists in PASOK. When Mr Venizelos says that we were in this line of composite name and are others who still support what Mr Papandreou said "our name is our soul". Clear your position. That's what the Greek people got sick of. But more than that, he has disgusted the ANELs and Mr Kammenos, who is now looking for the victims. Now, hours, days, before this deal is passed. It had the opportunity in the motion of censure in June to take the government down, not to allow this agreement to come to the Greek Parliament. He had the opportunity to prevent the vote of confidence, but what did he do? Loan with his MPs. He'll do the same today. Because if there weren't any of the ANEL MPs. It would not have taken a vote of confidence a week ago, nor would the Prespecies' Agreement be voted on today. Do you now think by blaming Mrs. Kunduras who you have been with you for so many years, by saying that you have evidence of the mismanagement of her ministry, will you achieve something? Now did you find them? Now does it bother you that her father has written the junta anthem?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u250	The piracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u251	The piracy. And you even come to make a motion of censure a week after the vote of confidence. Theatres! Hypocrisy, that is the word that characterizes the image and shame for all of us. Shame on you! What the Greek Parliament has been presenting lately intensifies us is an intensification of the world. You confirm the image they have for Greek politicians that they are all the same. Unfortunately, the green is also burning near the dry. I said that in my previous speech, we are not all the same. They are not all parties a little - very vague. We in the Central Association are the only party that had a clear position at the outset on the agreement, but also on all the issues that come within Parliament. What do we say? To be a referendum. At the moment, not one third of the Greek people are represented by the government. You come to claim the majority with windstorms, you who were talking about popular sovereignty and on such an important issue, in an agreement that does not change. A bad deal that doesn't change! Take your responsibility. Some in here this evening will vote to keep their position for the Parliamentary Assembly, for the Ministerial Council, but with consequences for the future of our children. You mustn't do it. Today we see in this bad theatrical performance that you who vote for the agreement have the last word. But remember, the last act is taken by the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the following timetable: Today we will go by 1.30' and continue tomorrow morning at 9 a.m. The vote will take place tomorrow at noon at 14.30 p.m. This is the unanimous decision of the Bureau of Parliament, so that all Members can speak, because other colleagues are following some 104 speakers. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this historic meeting for Parliament is important today to know who votes on what. It is very important for a simple reason: the government tells us - I am not saying the majority - that on this agreement it wants to build a progressive front and through this agreement it will reorder the political scene. Ladies and gentlemen, what matters is that the one who goes to lose, by definition, cannot reorder political scenery. What the government is doing today is bringing an agreement and seeking votes from willing MPs, who may be willing for future political use of a few weeks or a few months at ministerial headquarters. Nothing else gets from this deal. In order not to be confused, we who have been in the position since the beginning for a complex name using against everyone, wanted an agreement that is sustainable. What you brought is a bad deal, when not only did you negotiate, but you seem to have taken the proposal that was put to the table, you got half the name and you gave all the rest of it. This agreement, ladies and gentlemen, is not just problematic so that it is not voted on today by the House. It will be problematic for the results it will produce from now on and it will be at the expense of national interests. It presents four serious problems. The private communication already changes the roadmap provided for in the agreement, thus altering its content before it is ratified by Greece. The agreement in Article 2(4)b1 provides that the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia would make changes to its Constitution, change the constitutional name from ‘Macedonia’ to ‘Northern Macedonia’ and change the references to the Constitution that have been referred to as ‘alturism or future claims’. They would be removed or amended. The financial communication changes the roadmap and predicts that following the ratification of the agreement by Greece and ratification of the accession protocol of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to NATO, constitutional changes will apply. The text of these changes never reached the Greek Parliament except as an annex to the private communication, because the Macedonian Government wanted to inform the Greek Government of these changes. Therefore, this House is not aware of what it will vote on, but is aware that in these changes that have taken place and which have been made in the private communication, the references which should not have been made are multiplied, because the Greek Government should not have accepted them. The word 'Macedonian people' is multiplier. Did the government really go and negotiate that there is a possibility for FYROM to refer to a Macedonian people? This appears through the private communication. In Article 1(3), erga omnes shall be limited to those provided for in the Agreement, with the result that its overall power will be reduced, in particular as regards the performance of the terms ‘Macedonian’ and ‘Macedonian’. With regard to these terms, ladies and gentlemen, Article 7 of the Agreement provides that the parties maintain their own free concept, so also an interpretation of their historical heritage. This wording raises a major issue when it recognises at the same time in Article 1(3) using the term ‘nationality’ citizenship, nationality, Macedonian nationality to the citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. At the same time, the abrasion element is consolidated through the agreement, when the international recognition of Macedonian citizenship, Macedonian language, especially perception of Macedonian history and culture to the citizens of Macedonia called northern Macedonia, shape the conditions for the establishment of Macedonian ethnicity. Who gave the government this legitimacy to negotiate matters which had so far been rejected by all previous governments? Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what the difference between us and you? For thirty years, we have had the same difference, whether it came from the Interior JRC or from the Coalition or later from the SYRIZA. What you said is that you did not have any problem with the use of these terms and you wanted to do so. As long as we were in government, we had renounced these attempts by Macedonia to go through such agreements. When you came to rule, you gave everything and took a half name, which will be used in the Constitution from now on with all other designations, "Macedonian people", "Macedonian state", "Macedonian territory", "Macedonian language", "Macedonian culture". That's what you've done through the most famous negotiation you've ever made. Eventually, since you gave up everything, why did you only get the name? This is a question that is only resolved through the private communication, where the Macedonian people have a clear ethnic reference. At this point is the fall of the erga omnes. It's unacceptable, it's unequivocal, it's nationally harmful, because Greece just so far had never recognized Macedonian ethnicity. This was systematically denied by all previous governments since 1993, because they considered it to be a component of aluterism. It is the current government that accepts it. In Article 7, the term ‘Macedonian’ and ‘Macedonian’, the term ‘Macedonia’, is used to define the term ‘Macedonia’ and ‘Macedonia’. There is, among other things, the reference to Macedonian territory, i.e. the geographical area in which the state exercises sovereignty. Thus, there is another component of the ethnic nature of the term "Macedonia" and "Macedonia" used. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, precisely because this agreement is not an acceptable solution, it must be voted down. It contains harmful discounts, made up of unscrupulous retreats on national issues. All these retreats are unacceptable and the Greek people will not accept them. We who have said forty-five years as a party space that this withdrawal should not take place, tell you today that when you are giving the opportunity to use the "Macedonian people" and "Macedonian territory", you know that you should account to the Greek people, because this is not just a political position. It's a national retreat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Güulekas Konstantinos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u255	Ladies and gentlemen, I really didn't think it would be time to try to defend our Macedonia's fairs, not in international fora abroad, not in discussions with foreign officials, but within the Greek Parliament before the National Representation. I never thought that we would have to fight in here to convince Greek Members that they cannot in the name of the people and the nation give names, identity and languages to our northern neighbours, effectively opening up the anchorism in a particularly sensitive area above our northern borders. And it is tragic that all this is taking place against the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, our mandated Greek people. It is also against the whole political world, since all of them are opposed to the promoted agreement. Unfortunately, everything happened in the dark. Alexis Tsipras and your Government have never sought consensus. All negotiations took place under the rule of secret diplomacy. We have reached the last point in political elasticity, even the political leaders and MPs, being informed of the negotiation not by the Greek Government, but by the statements made by the Skopje Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister of the neighbouring state. You have used the Skopje issue to divide your political opponents, ladies and gentlemen. You led the political life of the place to the last limit. We have seen parties break up overnight, MPs switching camp and positioning like shirts and the Greek people following this political downturn. I have listened carefully all this time to the allegations and arguments of the members of the ruling party, which are being felt that a solution has at last been found to a time-consuming issue. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that you alone have attempted and wanted the solution and you welcome it? All the previous governments have sought and tried to achieve a mutually acceptable solution over the past thirty years. Governments, however, sought solutions that would serve the interests of the country and not solutions that would put the country into adventures, which would be harmful to Greece. No solutions for solutions. Let me remind you of what happened in 2008 in Bucharest, when the government of Kostas Karamanlis prevented Macedonia from joining NATO under the false name "Macedonia". Then the political forces worked together. You are now divising people and parties in your agonist attempt to pass this agreement with loan and heirly MPs. Why are you trying to do this? For a few months in power? Instead of joining, you are splitting up with disastrous results for the country. Let's see very quickly, doing an autopsy in the deal, who gets won by it. For the first time the Greek government, your government, recognizes Macedonian identity that it will be possible to use it and speak for ethnicity as well. For the first time in Greece, your government recognizes Macedonian language. Greece has agreed that it will accept the free use of the acronyms "MK" and "MKD", i.e. "MAKEDONIA", as used by our northern neighbours. You accepted the start of the process of NATO membership with the completion of the constitutional review in Skopje, regardless of the ratification of the agreement. You left on the ballot of an international committee the fate of the products produced in Macedonia, since, for the trade names, trade marks and names, we will no longer decide, but a committee. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, now that your term of office is over and there are only a few months left in government life, you are bringing this infamous agreement and you are mortgageing the future of the next generations, without even having a clear majority in Parliament. With your vote you are creating the conditions for the development of Macedonia, which so badly has accumulated in the country. A characteristic example is Article 7, which allows Skopje to refer to their "Macedonian people", as they did in the earlier financial communication. Before the agreement ink drys, the Skopje break it and show their true intentions. Remember Zaev's statements when he spoke to VMRO Members? Moderate Zafe was saying what? "Speak - he said - about the Macedonians in Greece with passion. That's great. Let's wonder what we've done for them twenty-seven years. Now here we have opportunities for children in Greece to learn the "Macedonian language". So far this has been forbidden.' This is your accomplishment. These statements are made by the moderate Zafe. I wonder if his successor will be someone like Gruevski's hardcore, what about this deal? That's why we're telling you that you're opening the airtight chain above our northern border. If you are nationally proud, see a little what is already happening in western and central Macedonia, how many associations of thermoplastic heads have already asked for the recognition of "Macedonian" minority unions in the past. If tomorrow these people ask you to teach the so-called "Macedonian language" to "cautionaries" in Pella, Imathia, Florina, what are you going to do? How are you gonna stop them? Alexis Tsipras, unfortunately, instead of choosing a national line, chose the dividing line. We expected nothing but you because your ideology is known and your ideology is known and your ideology is known. Anyone who does not agree with you is extreme is a nationalist. Hundreds of thousands of people who gathered in the Constitution the day before yesterday, as in other rallys, were "heralded multitude" during Alexis Tsipras, were extremists, elements far right. But ladies and gentlemen, I wonder about one thing. Why are you looking for an alibi for your actions? Why are you anxious to find signs in the Skopje negotiation before you can show that there have been various situations similar to this agreement that you have before? You have even reached the point of political uprising to adopt the views of the Skopje propaganda that Greece had recognized Macedonian language in 1977. You also claimed this in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Comrade, will you please be done?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u257	I will end in a minute, Mr President. What the centuries have not been respected and history, what has been won with many sacrifices, with many struggles, with lots of blood, deliver them overnight. Indeed, because all this is foreign to you, I would remind only the Minister of Education, Mr.Gavroglou, who, by letter, recommended that the schools remove the matter for the Macedonian Struggle, to alleviate the teaching material for students. Don't get tired of our kids when we're talking about them!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u258	Mr. Giuleka, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u259	I shall conclude, Mr President. Just because it is foreseen through the agreement - and I would like to close - a committee of experts, which - says - will examine the school manuals, I would like to ask, ladies and gentlemen of the government, how are we going to refer to the Macedonian Race, Paul Mela, Captain Kotta in the monastery, Crussovo, Ahrid? How are we going to talk about all this if suddenly the Skopje who are going to join this joint committee are disturbed because we are reporting to our heroes? And because you're asking us to tell our children tomorrow, after the agreement you're going to vote on, that over there, above our northern borders, they live Macedonians who speak the "Macedonian language" we tell you that we won't do that. We can't do it. We don't want it. You go to the children of Thessaloniki, Drama, go to the children of Florinna and tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u260	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u261	I shall conclude, but please allow me to conclude my thoughts very much. It is a question of Macedonia. I'm a Macedonian and please very much, give me a minute to finish my thoughts. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u262	I've given you two and a half minutes. Don't forget that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u263	I shall conclude, Mr President. I come from the Greek north, ladies and gentlemen, from Macedonia. If you don't want to talk about all this, we'll talk. And I'll talk about Captain Bruffa from the Grevena Sidneys and my grandfather, Elijah Güleka, who was young enough to live the rifle and went out into the mountains, in the Macedonian Struggle, as it came out in the Balkans of 1912-1913, when Greece was growing. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to talk about these, because we have an emotional burden of gravity in our hearts, in our souls. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Everything, not in my life or in politics, is not done with cold calculations. And Greece wasn't made with calculations only, with reasoning and orders from the great. It was made with a dream, it was made with a vision, it was also made with blood and sacrifices and struggles. Now is the time of truth. Now no one can hide behind excuses, pretexts and pretexts. We are all judged and we are all going to speak to the Greek, speech in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u264	Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u265	There is one question I have to answer. Who killed the River Parliamentary Group? But you will allow me, with respect for the historical moments we live in, not to answer this question today. I will, however, reply this week. And I will respond with evidence, because the Greek people and, above all, the two hundred and two thousand voters of the river demand that they know who killed their parliamentary group and who tried to confuse us. So what should a Member of Parliament think about these critical times? Two, I think, are the most important thing to consider. What is the fate of our Macedonia, of Greek Macedonia if this agreement is passed and what will be the fate of our Macedonia and Greece if we do not vote on this agreement. What, in other words, will be the fate of our own economy, our own security, our own course. The Embassy Agreement ceases the monopolistic sale of the name "Macedonia" by our neighbours. Be careful, we Greeks are proud of our Macedonia and its history. And I say it as a Member of the European Parliament. However, the vast majority of the peoples of the world when they hear Macedonia, their minds go to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. One hundred and forty countries have recognized them as the Republic of Macedonia alone. That's all that proves we've been doing wrong all these years. We put the head in the sand, we don't see the danger, and we tell the next head, which is also poured into the sand, "we win, we win a little." So when this country changes its name, and this will be done immediately, and it is called "North Macedonia", the first thought to anyone who listens to it from America to China is that there is central Macedonia, and southern Macedonia and eastern Macedonia and western Macedonia and all that is Greece. And it is up to us, our hand, to give new strength to these regions, to the economy, to production, to culture. The agreement, ladies and gentlemen, does not give us everything. I have said this from the very first moment here in Parliament: if the country had a national security council, or if the government would invite us to sit around a table, we would have a better outcome. The great profit, however, today, in what we have is that Greece imposes on our neighbours the complex name. To the big question of who loses and who wins from this agreement, I ask: Find me a leading international analyst that says the losers are the Greeks. The deal obliges our neighbors to change their school books. The next generation should not be reversed with the ideas of aluterism. The agreement obliges that the names of public bodies change, that the statues of Alexander the Great be laid off from their squares, that they stop waging Greek history and ancient Macedonian tradition. And all this with the modification of their constitution. So let's go see what the fate of our country will be if the MPs say no to this agreement today. Then we will have to live with a state that will continue to be called everywhere and always 'Macedonia' as well. So let's get out of the trenches and think about what the bans yielded, what the blockades and the veto yielded in 1990. Nothing! Not only did they pay back, but the country lost. So the pursuit of a compromise should be the great patriotic objective. If the agreement is rejected, the country will be isolated internationally, we will collide with the European Union, we will collide with NATO, we will collide with the United States. Does it not really concern us that all our allies, those who support us in the Cyprus issue, those who respect Turkey, those who financed our economy in the difficult times, will be against Greece if we refuse this agreement and the only ones who will be glad will be the Turks and the Russians? Ladies and gentlemen, it is, I think, time to say things by their name, without fearing citizens. No Greek government could impose a change of name on our neighbours if Western diplomacy did not press to solve the problem at this time. Russia's fear and the possibility of Skopje joining the Russian sphere of influence forced Western, Europe and America to move. It's small details of great importance. In the spring of 2017, the Russian Ambassador to the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, after months of aggression, asked Gruevski for no rotation - so the Russians call it the first time - to seek protection on the part of Russia by abandoning the effort to join NATO. It was a public call from Russia. He was ahead, as you may know, in the autumn of 2016 the failed pro-Russian coup in Montenegro. That's where the Americans woke up, to tell the whole truth, and pushed and forced President Ivanov to assign the mandate to Zaev to a moderate politician. The defence of the Black Sea - Adriatic energy axis is a strategic issue for NATO and the European Union. And then there are other issues, no second, drugs and smuggling. You will know that at the beginning of 2018 Ivanovic was murdered, a moderate Serbian politician, who was constantly talking about the illicit trafficking of narcotics and minerals in Kosovo. Then - beware of me, let us get out of our environment - it is that, according to all the serious analysts, the Americans' decision has been reinforced that we must end with the ataxia in the Balkans. And they set the first goal of joining the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in NATO. Let's dare to talk about this and the Greeks will find out. I hear some people say that the big loser, if we don't sign this deal, they'll be our neighbors. Their country will be broken up. The nationalists in Albania and Bulgaria also dream of taking a piece of "Great Albania", taking another piece of "Great Bulgaria", sharing it. Are the solutions that are relevant to Greece? If this agreement is not passed today, what politician do you think will fall? It's not Mr. Tsipras who will fall. It will be Mr Zaev who will fall and the next government in the neighbouring country will be - at best - a 'government of Gruevski', retraining, again scarecrowing in the streets and squares, again games with Turks and Russians. Is it a good thing? Is it a good thing that the neighbouring country does not become a European territory? Does it help us to obtain military bases on our northern borders? For us, for the river, it is a priority that the security of the country and security means solid relations with our western allies. But what would be the fate of this agreement if we referred it to the next House and to a New Democracy government? After all, this was the real fear of so many months of the New Democracy. That is why even today there are many who wish - they are whispering it - to be voted on, 'vote to finish, vote not to come to us hot potatoes'. The renegotiation of the agreement, for which several New Democracy officials are speaking, is - be careful! - exactly what Mr. Tsipras said in 2014: He'll tear the memorials and the strangers will cry, he'll beat the dulls and the markets will dance. The truth is that there will be no further improved agreement, gentlemen of the New Democracy, because SYRIZA has not brought an improved memorandum. He brought a tougher memorial. Then why are these evacuations from the New Democracy side? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen to me: Then why are these repetitions on the part of the New Democracy, support for the rally and half - fortunately! - Talk about treason? I want to say something straight to Mr. Mitsotakis. I, too, know that voters want the illusion of the absolute. That's what voters want. They don't want a leader who will tell them that life is complicated, that they need compromises. However, a politician's first virtue is another, it's the sacrifice, 'I leave my job and go into politics and not go into politics because I am unorthodox and sacrifice the votes and the applause, if I'm going to solve a difficult problem. I dare and go against the current." The verb must be 'bold' and not 'go'. This is Potami and because his compass does not show power, we decide without second thought the interest of our homeland alone, how the place will be better, where our friends and children live. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me - I think that in my previous capacity you owe me a few minutes, because I have always been very brief - to speak two, three more minutes. Following Mr Tsipras' regularisations, the Members' relocations, there are a number of people who are calling on us to say 'no' to the Prespecies Agreement, regardless of whether it is good or not. And here I really want to say two words to Mr. Tsipras. It is not Mr Tsipras' exception to the national agreement that everyone remembers it in their fall. But Mr. Tsipras has done something else unique. He co-existed, you co-existed four years with the far right-wing nationalists. You embraced the platforms, shared the ministries, and today you are portraying the undefiled progressives. You're not! However, it is true that our positions on national issues are changing according to our opponents' tactical behaviour. Potami does not invest in the civils, in the daily conflicts that absorb all the energy of society, "memorandum, antimony, germans, drachmas, traitors and patriots". The antisystemic rhetoric of the crisis has spread like mold on the foundations of democracy. And that is a great contribution, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You have achieved everything in your effort to come to power, and the attack without limits on institutions from the European Union to entrepreneurship has meant that it is even today that everything is dirty. And since democracy had sold out the country, as you said - that's what you said - why are some people not saying today that democracy sold Macedonia as well? [[Noise in the Chamber]] But I would also like to address you. Don't think you're original. Everything you yell at has been yelled by SYRIZA in the years of the antimony struggle - look out! - that whoever votes will be punished by the people, that Parliament must listen to the voice of the rally, that the President of the Republic must resign. Everything has been said in the previous race. I read: 'The government is not legitimate in taking decisions which are binding on the country' - 'the Prime Minister has no political legitimacy to commit the country', right. Who said that? Alexis Tsipras and Kyriakos Mitsotakis have said so. There's one of them, there's the other. One said it in 2014, the other one in 2019. You have reached the point - frankly, I ask you very much - gentlemen of the New Democracy to denounce the policemen who tried to protect Parliament's entrances from attacking fascist groups! How much more SYRIZA anymore? How much more SYRIZA anymore? And to refer to my PASOK colleagues, it is offensive to the modernists, to the reformists, to the centralists, to the attitude of PASOK and KINAL. Dozens of executives do not, of course, participate in the immovable service imposed by Mrs Gennamas. They dare and speak in favour of the solution of the "Macedonian", as Kostas Simitis and George Papandreou supported all these years, even at this very moment in their clear position. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek citizens have lived through a full circle of lies and fraudulent promises. SYRIZA tricked them with the antimony, and the New Democracy is trying to trick them with nationalistics. We, therefore, have nothing to do with either the 'old calendars of the left' or the 'old calendars of the right', we will insist on telling the whole truth. No more waves of violence and division! Citizens must demand the truth and reward the truth. There are many of these hours that shake our hand again and they say 'thankfully exist', citizens who are disappointed and are now looking at the river. They're even returning executives we've lost. In Zappeion on Monday hundreds of citizens came to attend the river event for the "Macedonian". Tens of thousands of netizens, who don't want social media to become the medieval squares again, were connected and watched for a four-hour debate and they were all there, from Stephano Mano to Nikos Alvizatos. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that you do not lose your soul, that you do not lose your direction in politics, that you do not become unfair, that you do not become left and right, that you do not fall blind and, above all, do not forget why you fight and who you are fighting for. And the river of this unequal war won't lose it. He may have lost his parliamentary group, but he will not lose his centre, he will not lose his direction, he will not lose his compass. And that makes us proud. And that makes us strong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Panayotarus, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Before I start, I can see the theory is filled. And we had two guests for the gallery and they asked us very kindly - the word within many introductorys - not to put them in, we do not know why. You may be afraid of something that has absolutely no sense. Perhaps elsewhere you should look at who they are pushing and want to invade the Greek Parliament over time. Unfortunately, today is a very unpleasant and sad day - and I would say it too, some previous speakers have said it - where, within the Greek Parliament, with many questions, there is a debate about Macedonia being given, because that is what this is all about and all the rest are cheap justifications. As a very successful radio ad said, where two of the football gang speaks and says to each other "and the side is caught", unfortunately the political group is all caught. I do not know about it. The government or this slogan now made up of the government - because there is no particular majority - is a slogan of Bulgarian-African gangbangers, as was known until recently, by carcendavans, triumphers of the position, people who, because they have to serve or rather, hide their passions, suffer - are simply avengeed by the Greek people. In order to be honest, SYRIZA said so in his programme, 'Macedonia' right'. He made a retreat, too. He made a complex name until the next step. The otherwise popular President of the Hellenic Republic, in the role of decorative indoor plant, has not forgotten a word about what is happening in our country. Indeed, Mr President of the Hellenic Republic, when in a few days' time, as it turns out, will the President or Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia, who will have voted for the Greek Parliament, the band and the euphoria play the anthem of Macedonia? Because in this strange agreement you have not included the anthem of the neighbouring country, where it is right - it speaks of insulating and Macedonia. You'll have the proud wish to keep and pay tribute to Skopje. The Makariot Archbishop and he did not sing a word, and it is sad to have become a corruption of his name from Jerome to "Syrinos". The spiritual world hug, plant, intensive, say nothing at all or be afraid. A comment for these hundred and fifty - eight. It is probably a hundred and fifty-seven, because once one of them came out, Mr. Carantine, and he said, "I didn't sign it." As usual, you have a platform of some, many of whom have previously signed "17 November" or others, and they say that they are in favour of the Prespecies Agreement. Of course, if one sees the majority of these fifty - eight, rather poster to SYRIZA, it is not spiritual world. We come to New Democracy, where we heard Mr. Dendia yesterday strongly attacking the Golden Dawn and being overtaken by all the "constitutional" - within many introductory words the word - arch, justifies her a relationship, as a Rotschild lawyer, so that they won't put his hand on it. The whole attitude of the New Democracy reminds us of the angering people and their proverb, that "the party wants to hide and joy does not leave it". You see, gentlemen, over the years you have been diligent and without a decision of the Council of Political Heads, you have changed the national line to a complex name. That's what you were saying. For this reason, just yesterday Mr Mitsotakis, after the rally, tweeted and said that the country's national lines had been violated. Instead of taking erga omnes complex name, we give erga omnes Macedonian identity and language, etc., etc. The most important and most important thing of all is that you have agreed to the transfer of the name "Macedonia" and while you should lift the banner - you did it at first, but it seems that someone braked you - to say that Article 28 of the Constitution speaks for a 2/3 majority on serious national issues, you did not do so. We saw it brought very clearly by the Golden Dawn and Mr. Dendias to say 'I don't speak with the descendants, with the fans of the Germans, etc.'. But I'll add some names too. We'll remind you of the Prime Minister's father, Mr. Rally, who was in the government. We will remind you of Mr. Pikrammenos's father and other prominent New Democracy officials whose parents were members of the government. You've been revealed. The betrayal of Macedonia, which began immediately after the end of the gang war in 1949, because, you see, the right-wing winners who were victorious should not have smashed Titus who had broken them, had broken them with Stalin - continued in 1993, which, while the political leaders had decided not to include the term "Macedonia" and the provisional name of Skopje until the matter was resolved, suddenly and by magic, FYROM, which the last "M" was mentioned in Macedonia, and we now reach this shameful betrayal agreement of the Embassies, where you probably did nothing about the motion of censure that you were talking about at all times and suddenly stopped everything. Because there would also be another issue, that if the motion of censure was made and discussed, the most likely is that the vote would take place on Sunday and not on a daily basis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute, Mr President, to finish. The co-pilot until the day before yesterday, Mr. Kammenos, who is now playing Macedonian, also gave the pen for this perpetual treacherous agreement. Skopje, however, ladies and gentlemen, will be dissolved, because it is very simply geopolitical in the wider region that it does not involve them. The crime, however, which has been committed from the point of view of the Greek Government, unfortunately, is that there will be something of a poor quality golden bulb and in future redistribution of land, as it is done at regular intervals and especially in the Balkans, will fall on the paper that there is a Macedonian minority, a Macedonian language and so there is a Macedonian nation. All this will have an impact very briefly. Either way, the reality, ladies and gentlemen, of the millions of Greeks who came out and come out at the rally is that the battle of Soros and of them - within or outside of the introductory word - "people" of Soros is lost. We hope the war is not lost. Of course, it is very difficult and it is regrettable at the moment that the Pamachedonian organisations and everyone else are speaking about legal treatment for this infamous agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u268	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u269	In any case, ladies and gentlemen, to hear it, several people who said exactly the opposite, Macedonia was one and it is Greece and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much. President Antonis Samaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u271	Why, you guys? At 6 p.m., we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u272	Quiet, please, ladies and gentlemen! Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u273	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have to tell you everything and, above all, the most important thing, which is summarized in the seven words: 'Macedonia is one Greek'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And that is not a slogan of so-called nationalists. It is historic and even the essence of our political problem today. They say that Macedonia has been divided into three after the Balkans. So there are supposedly three Macedonians. Therefore, some parts of so-called geographical Macedonia were found outside Greece. So they can be called Macedonians, too, supposedly. Unfortunately, some in Greece, others in Greece, and others not so well-meaningly support this view. But that has nothing to do with history. It's a retrospectively constructed lie. It is a lie, firstly, because in 1913 no Macedonia was shared. Another thing was shared then: the Ottoman settlements in the Balkans, not Macedonia. In the first Treaty in London in May 1913, after the end of the First Balkan War, there is nowhere the word "Macedonia". It states that Ottoman Turkey resigns from its convoys west of the geographical line of Ano - Zero. This is the official record of the territories that the Balkan countries have won at the time. No official reference to Macedonia. And take the text of the London Treaty. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Shortly thereafter the Second Balkan War broke through and the Bucharest Treaty was signed between the Balkan countries. Still no reference to a major region called Macedonia. Please take the Bucharest Treaty. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In these two historical conditions of 1913 there are attached maps. That is where the word 'Macedonia' refers. But why? To identify an area that coincides with over 90% with Greek Macedonia. 90%! Please take the attached maps as well. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Member of SYRIZA tabled a map today, not official, but a map of encyclopedia mentioned in historical Macedonia, that is to say since antiquity. Firstly, no connection to the constructed concept of "geographical Macedonia" that was supposedly shared in three hundred years ago. Secondly, it was not noted by the Member that the encyclopedia itself, quoted by the Member, expressly states: “The term “geographical Macedonia” is purely Slavic invention.” That's what I'm saying. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Here's the entry. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, before the Balkan wars on Ottomans there was no administrative name 'Macedonia'. There's only one video and one in the skanks. Skopje belonged to the Kosovo viete and after 1888 Skopje became the capital of Kosovo. What does Kosovo have to do with Macedonia? Now take the official censuses of the populations. In the 1905 census in the region, i.e. on the Ottoman administration, there is still no record of one Macedonian. Not even one! Please take this census. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Later, the Yugoslavs are also making a census in the new area that they annexed and also found no Macedonian. Please also take the Yugoslav census of 1921. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Until then, no map, no region, no census found a Macedonian outside Greece. We have heard here that Penelope Delta refers to the local voice spoken in the wider region as "macedonica". But they don't tell us the whole truth. Indeed, for a time our people called the dopiola "macedonitis", but not to call them Bulgarian. Because it was a Bulgarian idiom. And then, our territorial conflict in Greece was with Bulgaria. And for one more reason, the most important: because many of those who spoke the local tongue were Greeks in conscience. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Like, Constantine Christou, the legendary leader of the Macedonian struggle who remained in history as Captain Kottas. Captain Kottas fought for the association of Macedonia with Greece, as did Vangelis Strebeniotis from Florina, as well as Dimitris Dalipis from Gary of Kastoria, as well as other people, but less well known. All those people were slabophones. They were talking the local tongue, but they were fighting for Greece. In June 1904, Costas Christos, after visiting Paul Mella in Athens, was arrested by the Ottoman forces. In September 1905 he was executed in the monastery. Captain Kottas went up the scissors proud, lovin' and kicked his own basement. Before he died on the elbow he called with all his power "I Ask Greece". But he yelled at it, in the local tongue, because he didn't know Greek. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] He was more Greek in consciousness than we all did, but he didn't know Greek. These are "Valto Secrets", that there were Greeks who had lost their language, but had retained their identity, their Greekity. All three I mentioned, as well as hundreds of others, died for Greece between 1904 and 1906. Their names had to be heard here in the House once. And that's what we're doing now. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But after the Ottoman departure, Serbia as Yugoslavia has now annexed the Skopje region. And what do the Yugoslavs call this new province? Macedonia? No, they call her Bardaria. And this continues throughout the 1920s and the 1930s. The official Yugoslavia also draws up stamps at the time, where the Skopje region appears as Bardaria, Vardharska. Take one of the stamps of that time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Until World War II, then, there was no separate region beyond the Greek border called "Macedonia", no separate people, no separate Macedonian ethnicity, nor official, nor informally, neither from the circumstances, nor from the internal censuses that the states then made and first appear in 1944. And now, I will read you the first official state reaction to the appearance of a so-called Macedonian state: "Our government considers that references such as "Macedonian nation", "Macedonian home" or "Macedonian consciousness" constitute unjust demagogy and does not reflect any political reality, and our government sees in them the regeneration of a possible cloak that conceals aggressive views against Greece". Question: Who signes it? Answer: then Secretary of State of the United States Edward Stentinius. What is the government about Macedonian homeland and Macedonian nation treating them as unjust demagogic? The United States Government. Please take Stentinius's historic statement. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Was he a extreme right-wing nationalist and Stedinius? Similarly, the socialist French President, François Miteran, said in 1992. He said, "It is not going to be accepted by Europe by the name “Macedonia” for Skopje, because this affects the national sensitivities of the Greeks. And that's a reasonable decision and it's a final decision." Was he a far-right nationalist and Miteran? Ladies and gentlemen, the whole truth is that some have been trying for decades to create another Macedonian and some other Macedonians, but they have not found any specific territorial area to place them and, above all, they have not found Macedonians beyond Greece. And when some time on Titus in 1944, this story first got official status, strangers denounced it before well - we do well to denounce it and that's a lie. Listen to something. The retrospective attempt to rewrite history is never innocent. It is always motivated by political purposes and always has political implications. And here's where history becomes politics. The theory of the three Macedonians who were allegedly shared conceals the theory of the so-called single Macedonian people who are fragmented and who want their national integration. That's what Stedinius was warning me it's dangerous. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So the primary question arises: What is the distortion of history hiding? Border redistribution for the national states in the region and redistribution of spheres of influence for the major forces behind them. That's what it hides. And who's worried about it? But, of course, the Greeks, as the last rallys showed. And that's a legitimate concern? Constantine Karamanlis himself unequivocally answers him. I read: 'If Skopje is not a threat at the moment, no one can predict and guarantee, particularly in the current conditions of liquidity and instability, what combinations of forces will arise in the near future or in the Balkans and in the wider region. If these forces want to use Macedonian again, as they have done in the past, why should the United States and Europe have given them beforehand a legal title to do so? "It is said by Karamanlis that security and peace in the region would be at stake, because it would be a historic legitimisation of the efforts made in the recent past, with the very name "Macedonia" and with the aim of dividing Greece into the distraction of Macedonia." This is the mortgage of Constantine Karamanlis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Take the letter Karamanlis to American President Bush and all European leaders on 3 May 1992, from which I have read you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is what Andreas Papandreou said at the time: “I am unresolved with regard to the Skopje challenges. I am not going to consent to a de jure and de facto recognition, since the name ‘Macedonia’ is used by aggressive or not specifying the name of the state of Skopje. Please take the statement by Andreas Papandreou. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Of course, we also have the statement of all the political leaders in April 1992, which reiterates that Greece will not recognise a country where the word 'Macedonia' will exist in its name. Please take the statement of the political leaders. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Can a small country like Skopje, of course, threaten a much larger country like Greece? Karamanlis gave the answer very clearly, noting that they are not the small countries that are threatening themselves, but they are the combinations of powers that may arise if we have legalised their altomatism. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And the name of Skopje was warned by Andreas Papandreou, it's an airplane. Do you think he was warning so dramaticly about a supposedly non-hazardous? Let these words be heard again today by those who are pretending to express better than all of us, while in reality they serve only their individual selfishness. Then what will it say, ladies and gentlemen, a small and large country? Cuba has been even smaller than the United States, but the United States has interrupted diplomatic relations with Cuba since 1961, not apparently because they feared the threat of Cuba. And they're only restored to them at the end of 2014 and they're still not normalized. Serious countries are very careful of the potential combinations of forces that can be created at their expense, even from small neighbouring countries in consultation with others, within introductory, 'emergency'. The other question arises: Skopje has recognized them as a hundred forty countries, so what is the point of us not to recognise them? Let's identify them. Answer: If that's just the way it is, why are they pushing us to identify them? If the matter had been over, they say, what is the importance of not recognising them so far by Greece? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Simplifiedly, because the important thing about Skopje was not by which name Uganda or Guinea-Bissau will recognize them, but by which name we will recognize them. Because only we can recognise their pervertism, which is against us. And they still forget to tell us that in all the international organisations Skopje has entered under the provisional name FYROM, which is a former name, a former province, a former unregulated country, Yugoslavia. It's an ex-name. And this uncomfortable loose end was pushing Skopje for so many years, not Greece. Nevertheless, in the Prespecies Agreement it is Greece that retreates to all and gives them recognition and recognition of Macedonian ethnicity and identity and language, i.e. full recognition of all symbols of their perversion. Some, however, insist: "Skopje is a very small country to threaten Greece. It is unrealistic." So to talk about political realism. "They tell us that Skopje threatens us with their pervertism. We shouldn't pay attention, because they're too small. We can give place to the wrath and retreat, because we..." he says, "...we are too strong." When Turkey threatens us, however, Turkey tells us that we need to retreat, because Turkey is too big. To understand, some have found the magic argument that Greece must always retreat, whether large or small, threatening it weak or threatening it strong. We always have to retreat. That's, you know, not realism. This is called the foreign policy of "Opening and waiting for you. All of you little boys have rushed. We are making it easy to settle our national issues.' That's not realism. It's called otherwise. It is the definition of subtracting, that is, total endemicism to all and everything. It has indeed been created, ladies and gentlemen, over the years, by a group of pressures within Greece, a group, let's say, which is about constantly saying what it is saying. In 2004 we were told that we should accept, "it is dangerous if you do not do it", the Annan plan, which turned the Republic of Cyprus into a protectorate under the supervision of Turkey. Because if we didn't accept it, we were told then, it would happen in Cyprus that terrible and irreparable harm. However, the Cypriot people did not fall, Greeks did not listen, reject the Annan plan - fortunately - and nothing bad happened. Since then, our Cypriot brothers have also entered the European Union and the euro. And the relentless President of Cyprus, Tassos Papadopoulos, then extreme was called by this group. Remember these things. The same company has been placed to rewrite our story and not just the Macedonian. A few years ago, we were told that the Izmir disaster was about a tourist accident of conspiracy of refugees on the sea. Same company, same arguments. Remember these things. Some people tell us that Skopje should be in NATO to stabilise the area. And I don't have any objections to join NATO, as long as they leave their albumination outside. But this is not the case with the Prespecies Agreement, as we will see immediately. We're legalizing their pervertism. After so many years, which we had not recognized them, we had not been insecure, nor were economic relations between them prevented, and the wider region was calm. And if you particularly want our traditional allies, Russia has not penetrated all these years in Skopje. NATO, in fact, was extended to the Balkans, joining NATO and Bulgaria and Albania. Then the entry to NATO is not in itself panacea, it does not solve all the problems of stability. Turkey is in NATO, but this does not prevent it from having expanding and revising, many times, thoughts at our expense. We've had stability so far. We had frozen the problem of their name, we had found a way to coexist, to cooperate, despite this problem, and this stability was not threatened. The stability is now being shaken, because we recognise their pervertism at our expense, and at the same time rekindle their own neighbours at their expense. Now see what's going on. The Macedonian Albanians want full and equal recognition as a component nation and not just as a minority. A little norther, in fact the Albanian-Kosovo border is being abolished. Consider how likely something is, to expand a little further, to the border of Albania-Skopje. The uprising of the Albanians we saw, the great uprising in 2001 in Skopje, was once. It's not a guess, it's a recent story, and now you won't even need a rebellion. On the other hand, Slavonics are not one thing. There are also so-called 'Bulgarists', and they are looking towards Bulgaria. After all, former Skopje Prime Minister Georgievski has already asked and received - if possible, former Prime Minister of Skopje - a Bulgarian passport and speaks publicly now on behalf of Macedonians who feel Bulgarians. This doesn't all promote stability, there are explosions. In the past twenty-seven years, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose has been handled by many Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers with their views, their disagreements, their shades - if you like - yet. I have always supported what the Council of Political Heads decided in 1992. That we cannot recognise a country under the name of "Macedonia" or derivatives or composite. There were other views later. But we all agreed on one thing, that Greece cannot recognise Skopje's alutism and no one so far accepted, nor even intellectualised, to recognise Macedonian ethnicity and Macedonian language. Why? Because that is simply what legalizes their pervertism. The Prespecies' Agreement is exactly what it does and it's out of every national line. It doesn't solve the problem, it creates a lot bigger. And to support it, they resort to a series of lies. For example, they say that Greece has recognized the so-called "Macedonian language" since 1977, on Constantine Karamanlis. Everyone has been denied them, with Professor Babiniotis first. But the Skopje themselves also disprove them, since this has never been invoked to date, because it has not existed. They are now being disproved by the Bulgarians, who are now complaining about the official recognition of the so-called 'Macedonian language', which, incidentally, is a Bulgarian idiom. Why are Bulgarians protesting now? Why, just now, the Macedonian language is officially recognized by the Prespecies Agreement. They also say that I had already recognised Skopje before the break-up of Yugoslavia as a Foreign Minister. They refer to a renewal of routine, a prior trade agreement between Greece and Yugoslavia. As far as Yugoslavia was concerned, however, there was obviously no question of international recognition of a province's internal recognition. Besides, the Skopje themselves are disgusting this. If Samaras had recognized them, they would have invoked it by themselves a thousand times by now and never invoked it. Because at the end of the day this government is trying to get through a shameful agreement, which has so far not been accepted by anyone else, has unfortunately become more Skopje than the Skopje. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] They also say that there was an opportunity to resolve the scop with the so-called "Pineiro package", but that I was supposed to prevent this in the spring of '92. But they also listened to it. Gligorov disproves them himself in his memoirs, where he reveals that the "Pineiro package" had been rejected not only by me, but the Skopje themselves had clearly rejected it. So there was no chance. As far as their dead ends are concerned, it's obvious. All of this - not all of them, most of them, those who want to do this for other reasons - accuse me of being very intransigent. And now, of course, some poor people who accuse me of being too endearic. In a cranial rubbish! And one last thing. I hear people say from here again, saying that I was supposed to have a career with the Macedonian. Ladies and gentlemen, I am forty-one years a Member, always with the Greek people's vote in politics. And when it took me to my house for as long as it took. And I didn't negotiate it. And I returned again with the vote of the Greek people and stood firm in my views. And I hear you call me "Macedoniacho", and me and all the others who are resisting this sale today. I think it is too much to compare us to people who have given their blood for their homeland. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I think it is an honour for them to address this reproach. Who? Those who up to a few years ago went to Skopje and protested and danced with Gruevski. Ladies and gentlemen, Skopje is a multi-ethnic state. They admit it themselves now. But the multinational states are recognised and stabilised - be careful! - under a neutral name, which does not smoke any of their addicts. For example, Belgium consists of Flemish and Balkans, but it chose the neutral name ‘Belgium’. Switzerland is composed of German-speaking, French-speaking and Italian-speaking, but has chosen the neutral name 'Switzerland'. Skopje chose the name "Macedonia" which directly refers to an unexistent ethnicity, to capture other present ethnic groups, especially Albanians who do not feel any affinity with the others. These are friends and friends, destabilization recipes. Listen to Zaf what he said two months ago, at the end of 2018. "We have a precedent, the North, but we remain Macedonia," says Zaf. "There is no other country with that name, Macedonia. There is Greece, without Macedonia." See and what happens in other countries with an official name bearing a geographical designation. For example, the inhabitants of South Africa are called 'South Africans', but here the inhabitants of northern Macedonia will be called the Macedonians. They are therefore recognised as nationality set out in the Agreement as follows: "Macedonians-Macedonian", "Citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia". What do you mean, "nationality"? SYRIZA, the government, says it means citizenship. That is, the legal relationship that citizens have with the state. Something innocent, let's say. But anyone who opens any dictionary will see that under the term "nationality" two different concepts are attributed to English: citizenship indeed, but also ethnicity - nationality. You recognized both. And citizenship, what it says "citizens of northern Macedonia", but they also recognized a Macedonian ethnicity, what it says "Macedonian" and even first - first - first. And he's trying to reassure us, but at the same time, in the same letter, the term "Macedonian people" exists three times, with clearly ethnic identification, next to other ethnic groups, Albanians, Turks, etc. And at the same time, speaking to his own, Zaev has reported over a hundred times that the Greeks recognized Macedonian identity. So who are they laughing at? And most characteristic of course that Zafe was photographed many times to celebrate in front of school maps, showing the great Macedonia, that is, the entire Greek Macedonia has been attached to these maps in Skopje. And to think, because many times we have a short memory, that the Skopje had undertaken to eliminate these from 1995. And they still have them up in their schools and they don't even hide it. And this is where the absolute irrationality comes in. We do not even have to vote for their Constitution in its final form. We don't know what we're voting for. What we have been given is under sect, until we ratify their NATO membership. And until then what do we give them? A white check. Villages within their Constitution retain references to the Macedonian people. You tell me, that's what bothers us and we don't accept it. I don't know what to say from this side. Besides, what can any changes be made or not by the Skopje? They've already been given everything. Even the name 'North Macedonia' is not even erga omnes, that is to say, for their internal documents undertake to change them after years when their accession to the European Union, even if it is done. Until then they will declare internally "Macedonia's Republic". In their private communication, which they invoke and celebrated, "Macedonia's Republic" sent it. So the erga omnes is right, and Mr Mitsotakis is right, who said that the only erga omnes present in this agreement is what they, nationality and language, and identity, all erga omnes. In fact, the government undertakes with this agreement to take action against Greek associations and private associations that resist the recognition of the Macedonian ideology. In other words, we will have unions in Greece that will be founded to spread the so-called 'Macedonian language' within our country - they are already doing so and you know that they are doing so - but our Macedonian organisations will not even be able to protest. This is stifling social cohesion in the air. From now on there will be severe turbulence, I'm afraid. And the government has also committed itself to supporting Greece - take note of the accession perspective of Macedonia in the European Union, Article 2(3). What will this commitment to support say in advance? That Greece will not be able to negotiate anything with Skopje? So all the other countries will be able to negotiate, veto yet one of the 32 chapters of accession? Bulgaria, for example, will be able to do so, will Croatia be able to do so, will Slovakia be able to do so, but will Greece not be able to negotiate anything at all? So, Greece, the largest and oldest member of the European Union in the region, is turning into a country - despite, completely marginalised? Of all this, the future governments will have to find a way out. It won't be easy, but it's necessary. And one last thing. You went to break the New Democracy and it didn't come out of you. Then you'll go dominate the Central Left. With who? With Danell, Bisti and Reposi, taking out all of us, the rest of us, the nationalists and the extreme right. Your trouble is in vain. You're going down on unscrupulous and dreadful depositions of great personalities from all the political areas. Listen to it so you can remember it. On the stock you fall Alexandros Papanastasios, 2 October of '31: "There is no Macedonian nation". Eleftherios Venizelos (Eleftherios Venizelos): "The Macedonian struggle must become the Gospel of the Greek race". You go down from the schoolbooks as well. You hear me, Mr. Philly. You fall on the stock of Andreas Papandreou, who said in October of '93: "Skopjean is not just a matter of a name. It's a matter of national danger in a long time. It is a weapon for the long term creation of Macedonian state, which will have Skopje, the Macedonia of Pirin and northern Greece." Andreas Papandreou. Fall on the open letter signed by personalities such as Elytis, Dimitris Tsatsos, Melina, Helen Glyptzi - Arveler, Menesis, Georgakis. For us, our soul is our name. And Theodorakis said just the day before yesterday: "It is an agreement that only badly reserves for our country, but also for the Balkans. Do not proceed to this crime against Greece. The damage you will cause to our place will be irreparable". And I'm just asking, what are all these people? Extreme, far-right, nationalists, Macedonians? Aren't you embarrassed? [[Sustained applause from the New Democracy Wing]] With these people, the statures and shadows must be viewed by those in the name of the Central Left or of the Central Right even of any micro-party feasibility are today going to make such a crime. Listen, you don't need much. Suffice the scene from the airport of Thessaloniki on August 28, 1992, where Constantine Karamanlis said that shocking "There is only one Macedonia and Macedonia is Greek" and he dung. So, what's all this stuff? They are Greeks, older and more recent and modern, with their differences, with their different historical paths, with their mistakes and virtues, but all these are Greeks that you did not love, because they are not nationalists. It is, however, Greek that the overwhelming majority of our people respects them, loves them and honors them, because they have all left them to our people the same hold: Macedonia is one and it is Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u274	You find us unreservedly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u275	Stop it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet for the President to continue. Mr President, continue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u277	Because I heard about aluterism, it's a pervertalism when you're claiming it. It's not when you disobey people's claims. I want you to understand the difference. I want you to understand the difference. Macedonia, then, is one and it's Greek if the years are over. There are again millions of standing and proud Greeks in the streets and, with one voice, they are shouting the same thing, one thing: Macedonia is one and it is Greek. As the then President of the Hellenic Republic said, Macedonian Konstantinos Karamanlis, the states do not only live with today. They must remember last night so they won't live it again tomorrow. Whatever you say, then, ladies and gentlemen, from here Macedonia is one and it is Greek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Konstantinos Zouraris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u279	Mr President, I would like the floor to make a little comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u280	Minister, would you like to comment on Mr. Samaras? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Wait a minute. Please, ladies and gentlemen! Let's run the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u281	I need a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u282	You know that's not customary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u283	One clarification for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u284	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u285	I would like to assure the President-in-Office, Mr Samaras, that, when we came to the government, we did not change what was written about Macedonia on the Foreign Ministry's website, because, as Mr Kumucaskos said, your central rapporteur, the permanent policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was the same: to avoid the single-sale of the term, the name, the territory and the identity of Macedonia. You realise that avoiding the term'sales' means that there is another Macedonia, because otherwise it would have no meaning to what was the standard foreign policy. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] As Mrs Bakoyannis said, in June, already in the 19th century, Charilaos Trikoupis, not a small personality, told the Greek Parliament about three regions of geographical Macedonia, the southern region that is purely Greek, the northern area that is mainly inhabited by the Slavic sexes and the intermediate. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] I must also tell you that the national solution itself, as has been shaped since 2007, the complex name by geographical determination, obviously suggests that another state is identified by the name of Macedonia and geographically, in order to distinguish it from the other parts of the wider geographical area. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] My comment therefore made unique sense to show that there is indeed a national line, which has been formed since at least 2007, and then around the complex name that accepts the use of the name ‘Macedonia’. This is the national political line followed by the Karamanlis governments, the Papandreou governments, but also the Samaras governments, because these were the programming statements made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Avramopoulos, and these were the relevant speeches made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Venizelos and Mr Avramopoulos at the UN General Assembly. [[Noise in the Chamber]] So all of this is to tell you that there is a national position. We must insist on it and you must learn to listen to the historical truth. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Finally, it must be clear who is telling the truth and who speaks to the Greek people with arguments and honesty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u286	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u287	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u288	He mentioned his name.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u289	I don't think I need to explain why. Give me the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u290	Here, Mr Kumucako, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna need thirty seconds. Once again SYRIZA and his representatives are deliberately and consciously falsifying our positions and opinions, especially on this crucial national issue. The Minister said that in the committee, but also yesterday, I referred to the three long-term objectives of the country, of the country on this issue. Firstly, you have forgotten the word, Mr Katrugale, the whole region, the culture and the reference of Macedonia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u292	There's another one...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u293	No one else. Listen a little. Secondly, we should not give the impression that another person is legitimised or is a legitimate or legitimate contender of the culture and territorial status of Macedonia belonging to the Greek territory. Thirdly, we must not allow the recognition of the language and ethnicity which is signed in the obscured Prespecies Agreement to arise or be suspected of creating a minority issue within Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u294	Now Mr. Zuraris has the floor. And then I'll give the floor to Mr. Michaloliaco. Mr. Zurari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, I am sorry for the slowness, but the hipon is not the case. Adversary in the name of resentment. I shall have to refer to the lack of logical sequences in this proposal for a treaty and to whether these deficiencies in the logical sequences are dismantling us Macedonians, me Macedonian. Already from the A5 of Thucydides, an adversary in the name of discreet, that is, distinguish yourselves, that there may be a man - community, and that there may be a man. There must be no intrinsic to the person. My discreet and company must certainly be against the integrity of the other. I, for example, am not Fotini and Fotini are not Costas, but to be Costas and Fotini, i.e. Fotini-face, there must be a name Lighten, because the humanity of Fotini and the humanity of Costas bears in the same way as the Theotokion, a name and a man is intimate and is equal. There's no human being and no politician without the name. If he doesn't have a name, what is it? Herd, she's a lyric, she's an ego. It is the principle of modern social and political anthropology two and a half thousand years ago. Second element. What, then, is going on right now? When we refer to the "Analytical Prior" in 70A, we will see: I have the following at this time, I am not. There's what? Because I'm two and a half thousand years of Macedonian. Or there is the precedent, he says, in the "Development Prior", in 70A, and I am precedent for the Skopje. Skopje, what do they call it, too? And it's like he's written it for the Skopje. The Skopje thing was two and a half years later. Conclusion. What do we have at the moment with the formalisation essentially and the only practically state-of-the-art status of the Skopje if it is adopted? Or in this evil name we were soaring, or in this sound we lay ourselves in to get to this evil, says Lysia. What's gonna happen? "I Macedon" will be nicknamed, because they dominate it and do it dominate it on the planet earth, to all the official international organizations, who have done what? They've stolen, they're thieves. Therefore, the hysterophilus of the thief is formalized against me that I am the landlord, the founder and the structured man and man - the community of Macedon. The only official name, the sovereign name, will be Macedonia, the upstairs, of Skopje. Therefore, I, Macedon and the Macedonians will be the bones tenacious, will be essentially the minus Macedonians, having suffered the deminutio capitis, that is, the head shrinkage, where it is central to Roman law and then, because we will not have what it says in the "Basics" of the Sophoon Lion - after the pandemics, the guarded substance of the matter. The guarded existence of the thing has been stolen from us, and I will be minus Costas as Macedon, I will be less Macedon. I'll be basically nicknamed. A provisional and possibly a little final: we were told you would win if you were subjected to it. We subjugated and found the ashes. They told us you would win, if you love the Macedonian brothers, thieves upstairs. We loved each other, and we found the ashes. Therefore, parliamentarians of the Greek Parliament, Greek MPs of the Greek Parliament, did not cripple me, crippled us, and do not mutilate me, Macedon. Don't let the Skopje shut me up. And of course not if we are disastrous, or if we are to make that sound, if we are to come to and vote on it. How is it that some ancestors for Macedonia's freedom are at risk, but now neither do you for the name and for the name dare you vote? How can it not be disgraceful!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u296	Thank you. The President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos, has the floor. Mr. Michalop, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u297	Thank you very much. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there are few in this Chamber who have decided that everyone is patriots apart from us, who are traitors. What a pity for those who are all Greek people who say that it is the traitors who will vote for the agreement and not the ones who will vote against it! And to others again, who say that Golden Dawn is taking advantage of this issue, there are many years' presumptions of our position, such as the first card of our newspaper, the Golden Dawn, whose first page I submit in the Minutes, which had come out with a slogan "No compromise for our Macedonia". [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Please, I'm tabling this in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michalliakos presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] This 'no compromise for our Macedonia' certainly also concerns the name, any concession of the name. That's a national position. In response to what has been said, I will read to you what has been said by the Vice-President of the Government of New Democracy - PASOK and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Venizelos, at the UN General Assembly on 27 September 2014. He said, therefore, that as regards the issue of the name of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Greece fully supports the process under the UN Secretary-General through his staff, Matthew Nimic. Greece has taken very important steps to date and we are waiting on the other side. We propose a mutually acceptable synonym with geographical designation before the word 'Macedonia'. The word "Macedonia" was given by New Democracy. Of course, it's never too late to get that position back. And I will mention how, then. As you all know, before today's vote was concluded, we had a statement from Matthew Nimic, who, in an interview with the Athenian News Agency, stated: 'If the Prespecies Agreement does not enter into force, the consequences of failure will be deep and possibly both sides could rethink much that had been agreed. I can predict many different scenarios that could be possible. Some of these are quite dangerous. It is an unacceptable, raw intervention within the country. And if you, the Left that you are ruling, have and say about Panagiotis Kanellepoulou, who told Pyuriphus 'Behold your troops', what do you have to say about Nimic, who in a vote in this House says it will be dangerous to vote and say 'no' to this agreement? Why didn't you, as government or you, condemn it as a Civic Opposition? This case of Nimic statements reminds us of another statement, the Bryza Declaration, the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs of the United States, which, when the Bourgas-Alexandroupolis pipeline was signed, came out and said that, if this project progressed, we will probably have a war. The follow-up is known. As far as traitors and offspring are concerned again, let some look better, because in the Intergovernmental Conference on Italian occupation there was a fascist magazine of the Italian authorities, Quadrivio, and there are some names in there, as are names for those who make the ultra-democrats to those who drafted the Constitution of 21 April of George Papadopoulos. That's why they better keep quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u298	Juda Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u299	For you. I said the regime. From there on... For you it wasn't Juda of Jaruzelski, as far as I know. You wrote it in a book. Isn't that right? I come again to the ambiguous attitude of the New Democracy, which also appeared with the objection of anti-constitutionality tabled by the Golden Dawn, where you rejected and received the SYRIZA's applause. Rejoice with SYRIZA's applause! Of course it is clear from Article 28 of the Constitution that a three-fifths majority is required on a major national issue. And if that's not a major national issue, what is it? The election of the President of the Republic or the electoral law? Do you think it is a more important national matter to elect the President or the electoral law than the issue of the name of Skopje? For you, yes, it is. We don't. It has also often been heard densely by many speakers that nationality is only citizenship and that the nation is a concept that does not exist in international law. And I read in the Greek Constitution, in Article 1(3), "All powers come from the people. They are in favor of this and of the nation and they are exercised as defined in the Constitution." For him and the nation. So what ghost? It is from this ghost that draws the legality of this House and of its citizens. Everything in this Chamber has been mentioned for the agreement. In short, I will mention some things, such as that Members commit not to attempt, incitement, support or tolerate any acts or activities of a non-friendly nature that are directed against the other party. Yes, sir. Isn't that why the piracy was heard by the military bodies "Macedonia famous, Alexander the country"? Because the plebiscite says: Macedonia is the most famous of Alexander the country that you sent out the Bulgarians - it said before, the barbarians then - and you are free now. Who have we kicked out of here? The Koreans, the Afghans, the Scottish? The Slavs are gone. What are you going to do with it? You're not going to forbid it? Can you delete the story? And, of course, I come to the famous article 7 and to all these unprecedented and dangerous anti-nationals that are contained in it, in terms of the definition of the term Macedonia for both those and them, as if there were no single definition, as if Macedonia were not once and it is not Greek. And within Article 7(3) the following is mentioned: When reference is made to Part Two - Skopje is Part Two and because Skopje is Part Two and we do not mention them by name, Greece Part One, throughout the agreement Greece, is not mentioned, the Hellenic Republic is mentioned as Part One - these terms mean the territory, the language, the population and their characteristics with their own objective, scientific interpretation of historical events. Who will judge these historical events? We are talking about setting up a committee, which will examine and, if necessary, review the school manuals. That is why your Minister for Education, Mr. Gabroglou, has removed the material about the Macedonians and Paul Mela. The Golden Dawn from this position which has to say to the Left Government and the present majority that the anti-national plans will not pass. History will win and Paul Melas and the Macedonians cannot be deleted, despite all the mixtures of some. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I would also like to say here that any difference arises in accordance with Article 19(2) may be submitted to the International Court of Justice. And it goes on to say that if the two parties do not agree to take the lead in the International Court of Justice, then it could be done unilaterally. Here, then, is the glorious stage for the New Democracy if it becomes a government. It is certain that the agreement from Skopje is being circumvented now and will also happen in the future. You have the opportunity to appeal and do not say that ratification of this agreement is final and nothing can be done. SYRIZA's rapporteur described the Prespecies Agreement as an anti-imperialist, at the same time as it is known and given that Skopje is to join NATO. Once the Left wanted all Macedonia in the Soviet Union to serve Moscow. Now he's giving it to America, and he says it's an anti-imperialist agreement. But what can one expect of those who were saying the slogans "Americans of the people" and today are the best customers of the Americans? And with regard to traitors again and since everyone, at least most of SYRIZA's MPs and ministers say communists, I will tell them that in the Communist Manifesto, responding to the accusation that communists want to abolish their homeland Marx and Engels reports: “They accused the communists of wanting to abolish their homeland, ethnicity. The workers don't have their own home. You can't get them anything they don't have. So let us not invoke patriotism." And as far as the many people from PASOK who are on the SYRIZA lines today are concerned, I will remind them that in 1982 the PASOK government, the Andreas Papandreou Government, excluded 70,000 Skopje citizens from their ability to return to Greece. Why? Because they declared Macedonians to ethnicity. And with regard to another neo-logy that exists and is not present today, there are too many years, for Slavmenes, I consider it extremely inappropriate and nationally dangerous, because both Slavs and Macedonians are not. The Macedonians are Greek and only Greek! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Kostis Palamas in an article in "Numa" in the early 20th century called them Bulgarian-speaking Greek-speaking Greek-speaking people. Recently, Professor Babiniotis wrote an article saying: 'The language of the South-Slavic, not Macedonian'. And he writes attributes in his article: "This Bulgarian, South-Slavic language is called false Macedonian. That is the great truth and the essence of the matter. Only if the name as Macedonian is ratified by the Prespecies Agreement, the opposite will prevail. A great historical lie with the great truth will be hidden in the paper papers undisturbed of the agreement, which will not be sought nor will anyone be able to reach." And it continues: "Why do they choose consciously, systematically and politically a nickname?" The answer is: 'The names of countries are not innocent'. Understand this, especially the gentlemen of the New Democracy, that in any way granting the term and the name "Macedonia", even in complex form, is not your right and is nationally dangerous. And you have accepted this and finally come out to the Greek people who protest with banners saying "Our name is our soul" and say that you accept the term "Macedonia". As far as I am concerned, it was on October 16, 2015, when the Honourable Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, had sent me a letter from the National Foreign Policy Council, to which he asked me to propose a name for Skopje and I spoke in the House and said that "because I do not believe in secret diplomacy and because it was written against the newspapers that during the visit of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras in the United States, Macedonia was agreed to join NATO...". And I said this in October 2015, and you have silenced and your silence is guilt and we have reached the current point of this agreement, which will be voted for by a group of MPs elected by others with SYRIZA, others with PASOK, others with New Democracy, others with Potami and others with the Central Association. If this is not a parliamentary coup, what is it? It is of particular importance in the agreement that the term 'nationality', which if the Skopje were not to provoke, could have been replaced by the term 'citizenship', i.e. a citizen. But this has not been done and not only has it not been done, but on the contrary, the term 'the people of Macedonia' is often used in the agreement. As for the term 'nationality' which some have said that it is only a matter of citizenship, I will refer them to the etymology of the word. According to the great English dictionary of Cambridge, it means two things: it is true that a person's official right to be a citizen of a state, but it also means a group of people of the same race, religion and traditions. With regard to the term "nationality", which you are also trying to distort its importance, in the Great Greek Encyclopedia, edition of 1929, Dimitris Drossos, Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, sign the entry "national", nationalite: all people associated with a common historical past and a common racial conscience and origin. That's national. I do not want to mention the term 'nationality', which is anti-corporate and which comes from a Greek word. I return to the agreement and say that there have been disastrous mistakes from the Greek side not now, not after the Migration, but already after the Second World War, the first major mistake in the recognition of Yugoslavia in 1950 by a government of the Centre, namely Nikolaos Plastiras, despite the fact that it had the name "Federal Republic of Macedonia". And, of course, I return to what I said during the procedure on the motion of censure, that this agreement is invalid in all cases, and the New Democracy must commit itself to canceling it, committing to the Greek people, who demonstrates that they will not have a complex name. In Article 3, therefore, of the Constitutional Law, it is explicitly stated that this amendment will be completed by the end of 2018 and, as we all know, this has not happened. In addition, there is an article which says that there will be the possibility of changing the use of names no later than five years. In other words, for five years Skopje will be able to use the term 'Macedonia'. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] So a change in school books and, as has been said, it is nationalist and racist the slogan "Macedonia is one and Greek". And because no sentence without law, and because it is still not the law, this agreement will end my speech with this very phrase: Macedonia is one and it is Greek! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u300	Please, Mrs Gennamas, President of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u301	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from the so-called left-wing policy, from 'outside the Americans' and 'go back, Mrs Merkel', to the practices of the oldest right. We have returned to the age of 'yes man', Mr Tsipras. Did your government function exclusively as a servant of foreign interests, which they asked? They demanded "solution now", to serve their geopolitical and economic interests. Obviously, they are not concerned with the content of the solution. They do not concern them with the problems that remain in the relationship between the two states. They have, therefore, found the right man, who has taken action, withdrew the national interest. On the contrary, however, you have the Greek people, who tells you "so far enough!" 'go back, Mr. Tsipras!'. This is the message from all over Greece. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] ‘Does the catechist have any limits?’ We have wondered too many times in this Chamber. And I respond, unfortunately, no. Why is mockery and hypocrisy in this Chamber today? Many of them are struggling for whether the Prespecies Agreement is to be passed today and everyone for their own reasons, but they are not always related to national interests. Mr. Tsipras wants to finish the job. The New Democracy, on its side, is struggling for any and finds this open after the elections. And the "willing" are concerned that their troubles are lost. The government, clearly, does not have the consent of the Greek people, but does not even have its own majority in the House to pass this agreement. Completes the necessary number of MPs a la card. Other Members are supposed to support this government, but they do not support the agreement. Other Members support - it says - the agreement, but do not support this government. Listen. No one will hide behind a fig sheet. All these support the Prespes and Mr. Tsipras, it is clear and the Greek people who are watching us know it. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Unfortunately, I say a very important opportunity for a sustainable solution. The government today commits the country to a bad agreement which does not serve the interests of the Greek people. Instead of closing old wounds, unfortunately, it opens new ones. Why? Because it keeps the root of aluterism alive. The Change Movement clearly says 'no' to this agreement! [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the House today to discuss this agreement and we do not even have the official text of the new constitution of the neighbouring country, with the amendments provided for in the agreement. He hasn't been filed. And not only that, but the Skopje are blackmailing, stating that they do not put the constitutional amendments into effect unless and when the entry protocol is ratified by Greece. The Greek Government also accepted this. In other words, the Greek Parliament votes blindly, with all the issues openly. With the private communication, things are getting even worse because they are expressly referred to as 'Macedonian people'. So the government today gives Skopje NATO membership, the start of accession negotiations in the European Union and together it gives Macedonian language, "Macedonian identity", "Macedonian people", i.e. "Macedonian nation". You gave it all up, Mr. Tsipras! I'm starting at the first, the name. This is not a compromise in which the neighbouring country and its people are recognised on the basis of their geographical position. This was the national line that has been followed in recent years by most political parties in the country. I mean, a complex name with a geographical designation. Today, with the government's agreement, we have "Macedonian people", which is residing in "North Macedonia" and speaks "Macedonian". We do not have 'North-Macedonian' and 'North-Macedonian' language. This is the way in which conditions are created for the preservation and creation of new anti-pollution claims. And much more - listen to this - what is deleted from the Prespecies Agreement is our Macedonia, which you know is described in the Agreement? It is described as the "North Area" of Part One, namely Greece. In practice, what you do is that you grant the monopoly of the term "Macedonia" to the neighbouring country. And all of Zoran Zafe's recent statements confirm exactly that. Mr. Tsipras, you have handed over the most basic position of the country. If the previous prime ministers had done so, this would have been solved for many decades already. They didn't want to deliver that! [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] I'm coming to the language thing. It is recognized by signature of our country 'Macedonian language'. You are now trying to give the impression that language has been recognized since 1977. This is a great lie and it confirms it and the man who represented our country in this process, Professor Babiniotis. You also put it in the contract to cover your own responsibilities. Through this logic, the ideology of "macedonism" is maintained and reinforced. Because, obviously, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, no citizen in the neighbouring country will come out and say "I am Macedonian, I live in "North Macedonia" and speak to Macedonian, who belongs to the family of southern Slavic languages, with an asterisk". Apparently, that's all funny. Everyone will say they are just "Macedonians". What you are not presenting today as a non-problem about language, you are denying it on your own. On your government the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, before you start the negotiations, with a directive on the OHIM, called for that registration of the language should not be validated at NATO level, unless the term "Macedonian Cyrilic alphabet" is deleted, the word "Macedonian". And now you say that this has been done and that today you have a very successful agreement. And where did you finally lead with your handling of the negotiation? To the very opposite result: both Macedonian and - obviously - their alphabetical. You are also celebrating the reference that states that the "Macedonian language" - which you recognized - has nothing to do with the ancient Greek, when, as is shown by very specific documents, the country had already succeeded in making reference to NATO's official platform that FYROM's language was established during World War II. The third issue is nationalism. It is recognized once again by the signature of our country 'Macedonian nation'. In vain, the government is attempting to fortify behind the Macedonian financial communication. Why? Because the same text mentions the 'Macedonian people' twice. And, in the final analysis, if it was intended to refer only to citizenship, why is the term nationality used which is of double meaning and not the term citizenship used to avoid any misunderstanding, misunderstanding, feasibility or misinterpretation? After all, the European Union in all its conditions uses the word citizenship for the term. This - you will allow me to say - is not just wrong. It's a retreat and concession we'll find in front of us. Fourth point is Article 36. Your Government has not reacted to the choice of the government of Skopje not to amend Article 36 of the Constitution, which expressly refers to "Macedonian State" and "Macedonian people". Fifth point, NATO. Why did you agree to start the neighbouring country's accession process to NATO before the agreement was ratified? It is something that creates a fait accompli, which is already exploited by Skopje. Instead of putting their constitutional amendments into effect, we are also asked to ratify the Protocol of Accession to NATO first. In other words, as I said before, we are blackmailing. The sixth point is commercial uses. There is great ambiguity about the commercial uses of the words ‘Macedonian’ and ‘Macedonian’, for products of designation of origin and for protected geographical indications, regulated by the law of the European Union. Why is there no regulation that stipulates very simply that the products in the neighbouring country will bear an indication in accordance with the agreement as 'North Macedonian'? Have you understood that not only are our products not protected, but in future will the government of Skopje be able to say that Greece will not be able to use the term "Macedonian" and "Macedonian" for new indications or for products already in circulation but have not been certified? Finally, I want to refer to implementation. You're talking about the erga omnes you've achieved. Even this is lacking, however, is under sect. The change in the name in internal documents is predicted by the opening of the accession funds, which means that it will take too many years - it is undetermined - over fifteen to twenty years. And if anything happens and it freezes any chapter, it means that it will freeze and its own adjustment. Finally, I ask you: How do you intend to ensure that any arrangements to the agreement are implemented - in good faith I say - when the ratification process is completed? Why does this agreement not provide for any specific mechanism of immediate activation? In conclusion, our geopolitical interests are undoubtedly linked to the harmonious coexistence with our neighbouring country, but on condition that every aerial pursuit is cancelled. That's not what happened. And it was not completely conscious by Mr. Tsipras and his government. On the contrary, this agreement preserves the spirit and core of 'Macedonism'. But what else can I say when you yourself, your Government, have come to accept as the name of Macedonia of Iliden, that is, the heart of alutism? And we were with our firm stand in here that we stopped you from blocking you. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] And I cannot say that many of those who today represent the progressives who support you and are on your side were ready to agree to Iliden's Macedonia, obviously without knowing history, without knowing the devastating consequences. But I wonder why they were so willing and so ready then to be on your side? [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Mr. Tsipras, international conditions are judged by history. Eleftherios Venizelos a hundred years ago, despite the Asia Minor catastrophe that had just precedented, guaranteed national interests with the Treaty of Lausanne. Proof of what it means to shield the national interest is that, today, after a hundred years, Turkey is persistently calling for the revision of this treaty. In your case, we have an agreement that is not supported by the Greek people. So you have no real legitimacy for these decisions. And to paraphrase De Gaulle, your deal is like the rose, is maintained until he gets bored, and unfortunately it's already marred with everything that's happening and we hear from the neighboring country. With the Treaty of Ambassadors, you have created new problems without solving any of the old ones. And this seems not only from the reactions of the nationalist opposition of Skopje, but also from the successive statements made by Zoran Zaev himself. We won't consent, we won't sign. We will not be inherited into the next generation of new problems. Our position is too clear. This symbolizes our own 'no'. And this is the will of the great majority of the Greek people. The democratic party, far from nationalism and patriots, far from majesticism, has always united the people and the country in order to tackle major national issues. Greece's national adventures, history-filled struggles for independence and integrity, the threats and risks it faced and faced forged a genuine patriotism, which no one can ignore and circumvent with ideologies. It was the progressive forces which, when Yugoslavia was dissolved, hit the risk bell on the country's right-wing government then to give a decisive battle on the international scene to close the Skopje issue in a definitive and irreversible manner and to ensure that there is no tactics for mutilation and for stories of minorities and language issues. That battle is gone. He was lost from the conflicts between the Prime Minister and the relevant Minister of the then government of the New Democracy. The veto line at the European Council that would finalise the dissolution of former Yugoslavia was not there because the ministers of the Government of New Democracy with their Prime Minister did not find it among themselves. We do not forget, therefore, how FYROM and FYROM were created and have since become perpetuated. And we do not forget the great responsibilities of the Right and the New Democracy, which to date have not dared, have not found the courage to say either a word of self-criticism and to assume their responsibilities. You have, as a new Republic, formed a particularly negative situation, which our party was then called upon to deal with and manage. So let gentlemen of the New Democracy leave the national krone. You have changed your attitude, especially in recent times, and you have given Mr Tsipras the alibi to avoid dialogue and consultation with the political parties. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] On the contrary, there was a great and serious effort from PASOK, from the Government of Andreas Papandreou, through a tough negotiation that forced Skopje to fold, to change symbols, flags and some wording of the constitution, so that there could be an Interim Agreement. Skopje has been forced to fold from many of their extreme positions. In 1995 the Interim Agreement brought an end to acidification. It allowed dialogue and opened the way for economic and trade cooperation between the two countries. Open the way to finding a comprehensive solution. Unfortunately, however, all the weapons that Andreas Papandreou has secured for Greece in this matter have been handed over by you, Mr. Tsipras, today. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] It was the PASOK which, between 2000 and 2002, sought to resolve a complex name, reaching very close agreement, but without - and I stress this - abandon basic conditions or fixed national lines. And it was the retreat of the other side that did not allow for the successful completion of this process. It was then PASOK and Costas Simitis with Foreign Minister George Papandreou, who, as the Government and Presidency of the Council of the European Union in June 2003, opened the process of accession of the Western Balkans to the European Union on the Thessaloniki agenda. So we have always pursued the solution throughout our historic journey, because that is what our standing values for peace, cooperation, friendly relations with all the countries in the region and much more with our neighbours are imposing. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the progressive faction does not divide with idealism, but unites with purely nationally beneficial positions. "Our name is our soul," said the late Melina Mercouri and united us all with these words. Today we go to "we call them Macedonians". Your government's central executive has been placed this way. Anyone not yet costed, even silently and with a head down, behind your agreement was baptized by you as a nationalist, right-wing, patriot. But you have a full responsibility for this agreement and the problems it will create and you have a great responsibility for the new division. You refused to agree. You didn't negotiate on the national line. If you had, you would have had great negotiating power and certainly the agreement would have been much better than the one you have brought the Greek Parliament to vote on. But you first looked at the internal balances and the internal political scene and not the negotiation process itself and the strengthening of Greek positions. That wasn't your priority. So the agreement, as it has come to light, does not solve the problems definitively and irrevocably, but perpetuates them. The retreat and the concessions you made will weigh you and follow you forever. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but mention the exploitation of the Prespecies Agreement as a vehicle for serving Mr Tsipras' party plans. As he said, on the other hand, he cynically - as he does - on the basis of the Prespes - wants to reorder the political scene. The emblem of his policy is 'how to remain a little more in the chair'. So since you have taken a vote of confidence with the remains of the extreme right, Mr Tsipras, you are now looking for new supports, new willing ones. Fear and look for ways to throw off the mark of your cooperation with the extreme right. You think that with all this will forget the spirit and style of your governance, your anti-grassroots policies, your hard policies, the dissolution of the social state. You think the Greek people will forget the lisverica, the tavernas, the political decline, the division. Anyone who is not with you, in your opinion, is right. Do you forget that you are the one who has ruled on the far right and now you are relying on the far right remnants? [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] You have the courage to say that whoever does not support your agreement is a nationalist! Look, Mr. Tsipras, these labels don't help. We won't give up genuine patriotism on the far right and on the Golden Dawn. You became a political sponsor of the Right, don't now be a sponsor of the Golden Dawn. Enough! [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Leave behind the coexistence in the squares of the "Indignant" because together you were in that division. patriotism is an element of our own identity, of the progressive party, because we are not stateless.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u302	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u303	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras pleads happy for the Prespecies Agreement, stating that the story will judge him. Of course, the story will judge you. But, much earlier, the Greek people will now judge you in the elections that are coming. And I know that you are afraid of them and do not want the Greek people's judgment, because there the 'no' of the Greek people will not be able to do it 'yes'. The countdown has begun and no politicians will be willing to save you from the condemnation of the Greek people, who will be merciless. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas. Let me tell you that now SYRIZA's Deputy Minister and former Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Kotzias, then the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mrs Maria Kollia - Tsarouha, and then the Chief of Officerial Representation, Mr Mitsotakis, will speak. Mr. Kotzia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u305	This debate has a good one, and I will say it as the Minister for International Relations and Foreign Policy: it brings back interest in foreign policy to the majority of the world. That's good. The bad news, however, is that there are many mistakes or there are many misunderstandings and there is one difficulty. How do I understand the majority, the majority? That it suits you to the prespecies' solution. It solves a problem you couldn't solve. You still haven't explained to us for two days, because you haven't solved it so long - you've been standing firm and giving nothing - and, at the same time, while the problem is solved, you can also criticize us and make warfare and sometimes excruciate. I would like to say to Mrs Gennimatas that this 'patriots' is something we left to hear from the barracks. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's not how these words are said. I will spare her, send her my book called "Left and Patriotism" a decade back, to be clear. I will now make two comments on two speeches from the former Prime Minister and party leader. I listened carefully to Mr. Samaras, knowing him from my teenage age. You know, he didn't say anything about what he did as Prime Minister for the matter. He was talking for an hour and didn't tell us what he was doing, how he pushed forward with his effort. Do you know what I understood? It wasn't Mr. Samaras' address to us, but only to you. And he was addressing the memory of Constantine Mitsotakis and Vangelis Venizelos. This whole lesson he did didn't tell Venizelos, so he wouldn't tell about the composite name when he went to New York? Didn't he say all this to Mitsotakis when he made him a Foreign Minister? What's our fault to hear? I also heard him say that it does not matter the size of a state, but how and who uses it in the composition of powers. I'm totally in agreement with him. And the question is: does FYROM want it in the composition of Turkey or a friend of our country? Why is FYROM, Northern Macedonia, if it collide with Greece, at the expense of the international association of forces, while coexisting with Turkey and having fanatical Islamics in its country, are they in favour of the association of Greek forces? This mental leap by Mr Samaras I could not understand. You also say that Greece has no aluterism at all. I saw great demonstrations of democracy and said it again - so I said it from the first move in Thessaloniki - but I was listening to the slogan 'Get the guns in Skopje'. And I'm asking, is that assimilating or not? I expect the New Democracy to answer us. I also heard the historical regression in which Bucharest was dissolved. I say, how was Bucharest historically dissolved? Because an historic event was hidden, which is twenty-five years back. What's that? The Saint Stefanos Agreement, with which Macedonia of the Ottoman Empire, including our own Macedonia, surrendered to Bulgaria with the consent of Russia at that time. It found Macedonia in front of us, the Bucharest Agreement and not what it told us about violins, etc. of the past. That's not how the stories are erased. I would like to make two clarifications concerning my friends from KINAL, although I have heard it from others. Have you realised that the FYROM government, Northern Macedonia, got a pig in the bag? I mean, what? We put them in and went through the agreement from their parliament, put them in a referendum, put them in constitutional changes, and now you are shouting because they are also waiting for NATO to enter. So it would be easy for us to agree to make constitutional changes and votes in Parliament without knowing what the other place will do after we are done? What did they show? Confidentiality. Peace, friendship and trust are what we need to build with them. So let's see what previous governments have done. Let's go to 1992. On 21-10-1992 Mr Samaras signed an unreserved text which referred to as the 'Democratic Republic of Macedonia'. What did he say today? Well, it was a piece of paper, a piece of paper. The decisions of the European Union - EEC - then - are a paper if it is signed and it says 'Macedonia'. What did he say next? The Baden-Württemberg Commission was set up to build, evaluate and approve, if this country has constitutional principles, it is a real state and can be accepted in the European Union. What did Mr. Samaras do? He refused to send a representative of the Greek Government there, and it is not the first time in the 1990s that the Greek Government was absent from important negotiations. So what does Mr Varvitsiotis say, not today but then? He says: "Mr. Samaras is incomprehensible. He did not solve the problem of Skopje at the time that it was possible to resolve." I don't say it, Father Varvichiotus says so. Then he says Papaconstantinou: “And we moved forward with this incapacity and we were moving into a dead end.” And he also answers the reason why Mr Kilikis, then Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, met. Listen to what your officials are charging you at that time: "There was in New Democracy and to its governments a lack of political courage, sincerity and realism." And what do I have to tell you? I have to tell you you're still missing you. You have no courage and realism to see reality, because the reality is that what you had at the time and much more we have satisfied them. The New Democracy then said 'no border changes, no territorial claims, no propaganda'. All of this lies in the agreement we have made. In 1994 he said "not just Macedonia, not having Greek symbols, not propaganda against us, not anti-corruption articles in the constitution, such as '49". And that's all. What you asked back then, which was easier to do, we did these and many more. And then he says, "Why did the negotiation stop, which was ready for an agreement?" 'Because' - says - 'a small group of managers' - three were - 'three people threatened to throw the government'. And here's our difference. The Mitsotakis, who was right to do, under pressure from inner-party Opposition and intra-government Opposition, did behind the solution. Mr Alexios Tsipras, despite the threats that the government will fall, if progress is made, proceeded. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What else happened then? In 1996 we retreated from the erga omnes position. And let everyone remember what was in 1996. We left the so-called simple solution, which was the solution to all the procedures for naming, and we went to the place of all use, erga omnes, only for foreign affairs, only for international relations and international agreements. Indeed, Mr Zacharakis writes, after meeting Mr Toshevski, that "we negotiated on 18-12-1996 to find a commonly accepted name for general, i.e. erga omnes, international use. The internal market has been lost.' And what else was lost? The Constitution was also lost in 1996. The request for a change of constitution has been withdrawn. How easily are you telling us that you were all asking and doing all of this, what you withdrew at that time? In addition, we went to the proposals for the name and name, which Mrs Bakoyannis - and the honour - she proposed, which she gave to Mr Nimic that it is good to try to fight further and that the Greek Government chose in 2008 was "North Macedonia". What Kostas Karamanlis' government chose to fight, that name we got. And you know what you're doing with the name we got? You're trying to reduce the importance of it. You have become more meticulous of schooling with wrong interpretations. Because International Law is not Constitutional Law, dear friends of the New Democracy. You have some constitutionalists, but you don't have people dealing with international law. International law works differently and does not matter how the nation is identified in a constitution. It is important in international law, if any, and how it is identified. It is no coincidence that the vast majority of people involved in international law regard this agreement as a very good deal. And we got it. We took the geographical determination, took the erga omnes for all uses and domestics, became the constitutional change and ended the propaganda. We're done with the aluterism. They recognize what they had to recognize from our history. Some say to me: "But now your conditions are excellent, then they weren't." At that time, the conditions were exceptional, which were broken down by Yugoslavia and did not know the Skopje where to go, where to support and ready to negotiate, but you did not accept it at that time. What does Gryllakis say about not accepting this solution in the easy times? Gryllakis, who was the chief minister of Mitsotakis, was Mr. Mertzos, who has included him in the traitors, because he is in favour of the agreement. So let's go: 'Foreign policy' - says Gryllakis - 'has fallen into the trap of well-known foreign interests in the Balkans. Instead of making a friend of the new country, she made her an opponent, enclaved in the denomination and then proceeded to the ban against FYROM - some were fascinated about it - "which was a divine gift to Turkish expansionism". Are you still comrades and friends of the Change Movement for the embargo? Do you think we took something with the embargo or found the country in a difficult position and accepted, without negotiation and without voting in the Greek Parliament, the Interim Agreement? A whole agreement has been reached here that the House has never seen and you blame us for informing you at least once a month, and I am also officially very many of you, particularly the Prime Minister? And why does he say that? Gryllakis says, “because the politicians of the New Democracy and PASOK could not understand world changes.” And he says: “Why didn’t the scorpion problem solve? For the inner-party opposition of New Democracy did not leave it, because with their cries they were led to an unacceptable and harmful behaviour for the Greek nation." To read the Prespes backwards. I hear these days: "The Prespes are treason. The Prespes are defeated. Prespes are a retreat". I accept it and I apologise. A lot of treason, defeat and retreat, and tell you what it's like to say. Firstly, it was very badly renamed "The Great Alexander Avenue" in an adventurous manner on the "People's Friendship Avenue". Very poorly renamed the Airport of Skopje, called "Great Alexander" and abandoned their philhellenicism and called it "Skopje International Airport". It was right that we should not allow under the statues of Alexander the Great, who wrote that he was their hero, to write that he was a hero of the friendly state there in our south, Greece. It is a betrayal, of course, to admit that they are Slavs. Where did it sound like that? treason is, of course, to accept that they have nothing to do with ancient civilization, history and heritage culture. This is an extract under Article 7(4). treason is to say that the Greek history, culture and heritage of our Macedonia since ancient times belongs to us. treason is, moreover, their language to be called "they" - although they had taken it since 1977 "Macedonian" - Slavic, i.e. Slavonic. I have heard some people say here many times: 'They of '77 do not apply'. I will read to you the report of the negotiator of the country in 2008, with a New Democracy Government: "For the language it should be said that in 1977 the United Nations' international meeting on geographical names took place in Athens". It says: 'It ended then, in '77'. That's what your negotiator says, not me. Listen to the revelation: 'Under the pressure from the former Yugoslavia, there are two languages in the country in question in which they are written, Serbian and makedonski, which in their Latin script is 'Macedonian'. Here's what your negotiator wrote then. Under Yugoslavstan's pressure, it was accepted in 1977. And when this issue was correctly raised in 2008 by the then Minister, they said it could not change, because for decades the Member States of the UN have agreed on language. But what am I supposed to say about the language and the ISO? The last time I spoke to Parliament, I said that we did not go to the negotiations in 1992-1994 on ISO, which is the standardization of language, names and abbreviations. You didn't go to New Democracy and PASOK. You know, I was sent by old ambassadors - there are ambassadors who love me - texts from that time. What I did not know and must confess to you is that the ISO and the UN sent Greece a letter to participate with a representative in the negotiation and that it cannot - which did not participate - send an answer letter and comment on the safeguarding of Macedonian language and MKD on the UN and ISO lists. And our good old ambassadors find that we have not been able to respond. We're not going to the negotiation. We're not answering, but we're protecting the country in a way that we SYRIZA's, we're supposedly not defending them. Of course, we have also betrayed fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, because we have irritated the nationalists, such as the Bulgarian Minister for National Defence who wants to make them Bulgarian and Bulgarian languages. But all the things we have been saying since the 19th century have been done, because Hellenism has preferred to have them friends, rather than to be like those who have looked at the Greek Macedonian wretched eyes. And because President Golden Dawn spoke again, they handed over Macedonia, they handed Kavala over to the Bulgarians. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] They delivered Cyprus with the junta to the Turks. They led to the destruction in 1921-1922. Whenever they were able and touched a little power, they destroyed or delivered Greek soils and Greek bonds and they will tell us about patriotism! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But there is also treason, because in the agreement it says that the neighbor's friend, according to Article 4, has no claim on our territories. Let's get to know each other. The core of alphabeticalism in international law, in international diplomatic history, is the claim of territories. The core of aluterism is not what one or another says, it is if there is such a joint claim. We're done with this claim. It also admits that there will be no Macedonian-Macedonian minority in Greece, because its own nationals are subject to Article 49 of an amended, but Greek, 118. And I have to say again: Constantine Mitsotakis, who wanted a solution for New Democracy, is a traitor? Nikolaos Merzos, the archymbul of Constantine Karamanlis and Constantine Mitsotakis, who agrees with the Prespes, does it to divide and dismantle the New Democracy? You're saying ninety-three of him decided to leave his room? Of course not. It does so as one of the most expert on the issue of scoppianos that is aware of how much Greece, the region and all our friends are coming out in this area. But feel sorry for losing your barbarians. What does your negotiator say on 19 August 2009? We have - it says - three periods of politics. In the first - it says - we did not accept the name 'Macedonia'. In the second, we received a composite name. She was accepted by the composite name. And in the third, he said, he agreed to discuss Mr Nimic's proposal for another name in the interior and another name abroad. And that's all we earned, we didn't give it up, but we're suspicious we wanted to break down third parties! Look at the big picture. A country's changing its name. A country becomes "North Macedonia". A country is changing its constitution with great battle, with great passion. Instead of recognizing - and I want to say this publicly to Mr Zafe and to his group - the enormous effort they have made to bring the two of us together, because they look forward to friendship with us and not with third parties, who want to be sent to them instead of seeing the huge step that has been taken, we have a problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I'll say it differently, so I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Kotzia, please complete in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u307	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u308	Six minutes he's right and he's taken twelve. He's just a congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u309	If I took the floor on staff, we'd talk by tomorrow. Everyone referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u310	Why are you displeased, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u311	Because I've been here since morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u312	I will tell you how many minutes they have spoken. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u313	Mr. Samaras spoke more than an hour ago than your Chief. I'm clearly more rational than him. We have an active policy. You're fans of inertia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u314	Don't complain, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u315	We want to solve the problems. We're the solution. You guys want to be the problem. We're the steadfast ones. You like superstitiousness. We look at the future and you're trapped in the past. The question is: Do you want peace and friendship or do you want anything else? Do you want Greece degraded and scared? Are you afraid of a state that does not have 2% of our defence capacity, or 6% of our own GDP or not? I believe that in the depth of your soul you know that the Agreement is good, it has brought a real solution, but you find modest distortions from history in order to criticize and fight the Government of Alexis Tsipras. I believe - and I conclude - that we have reached a historic agreement, which you cannot understand and you are making a great mistake. By interpreting the deal the way Gruevski would like to see in Skopje, you are the ones trying to give them guns at the expense of the deal. By making the lawyers of the most extreme positions in Skopje, you are the ones who are not defending this good agreement in the country. That's why you're incapable of three things. Incapable of making such a historic agreement, and it explains why you did not bring it forty years - no one prevented you - incapable of recognising the benefits of such an agreement and incapable - and that is the greatest problem - of promoting this agreement in practice, which is necessary in order to achieve it in the interests of the peoples of the Balkans and the Greek people. You are not in a position to implement this agreement, so it is good to stay in the Opposition until you have that ability.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr. Kotzia. I give Mrs Bakoyannis the floor for three minutes, because she mentioned the period in which she was the first to speak at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It had not been put before, and of course Mr Kotzias, if he wishes, could then make a comment. I would like to explain right on a point of order. It is the fourth day in the House and tomorrow it will be fifth with non stop discussion by noon. There is a very comfortable debate with twice and three times, if necessary, for colleagues, regardless of the status quo, say, who are today. I refer to both Mr Theodorakis and Mr Venizelos and Mr Samaras and Mr Kotzias, now for Mrs Bakoyannis. We have reached this as a culture of debate, at least on this very crucial issue. We'll keep it in comfort. All colleagues will speak. That is why we have some problems in time or in the order of speakers. Mrs Bakoyannis, please very briefly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u317	Thank you very much, Mr President, although I must note that you have given the former Foreign Minister, Mr Kotzias, twenty-two minutes. To the Foreign Minister who made Bucharest, you could give at least ten.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u318	Mrs. Bakoyannis, you could have ten and twelve minutes. You were written and you didn't speak. Now you're interfering because Mr. Kotzias raised a matter. There's no objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u319	I have not therefore spoken, Mr President, because the House is a dialogue and the dialogue requires answers. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that I have admired Mr Kotzia's arrogance and narcism. I admired the way he presented himself before you and said about forty years that they were all incompetent, they were all useless, they were all in any case a reduced patriotic conscience, but Mr Kotzias came and answered the big issue of Skopje. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the case. Because if that were the case, indeed with the convenience with which Mr Kotzias dealt with the matter, it would have been a long way to go. To make it clear, then, once and for all, yes, we were looking for a solution. Yes, Constantine Mitsotakis wanted a solution to the scorpion. And yes, he knew that if his government fell, in fact he could not go to a solution. That's for the story. The fact that Mr. Kotzias is coming today and uses Mr. Gryllakis is abusive. Because Mr. Kotzias is new to the Greek Parliament, but I, who am old, know that we have come to this House and from this seat and we have denounced Mr. Gryllakis, because he has done all the surveillance he has done in the time of Constantine Mitsotakis, where he was watching both Mitsotakis and me and everyone else. This has become known all the time. And if you ask me how Mr. Mitsotakis had him - because I suppose that is what Mr. Kotzias will tell me - I will answer that: 'Well, this whole Baroufakis had Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Gryllakis was your problem'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] Slowly, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u320	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u321	So I come to the period when we operated. Yes, the Karamanlis government wanted a solution. And, yes, the pressure at that time from all Europeans, especially from the Americans, was colossal. And, yes, we sought a solution, we tried to find a solution and we negotiated. And we negotiated good faith. And of course, we discussed names that had a complex name, 100%. I've said it a hundred times. One thing we didn't do, and that's where the case got stuck. It says the telegram, Mr. Kotzia, which you gave me last time. Because I was kind enough not to make special-management telegrams. But you did. And it says the telegram - it has already been filed in the Minutes, if you want me to present it again - that the American Ambassador went and saw Gruevski. And Gruevski tells him: "Good name, they want to change the name, but they ask us not to call us Macedonians and not to use the Macedonian language. And I cannot accept that." And that is the historical truth, ladies and gentlemen. [[Sustained applause from the New Democracy Wing]] I won't get into the whole story because it's heard a lot of times. The reality is that whatever Skopje was called, since Macedonian language and Macedonian nation, Macedonian people, it means that all the alutism and logic of Iliden could continue with it. That's the reality and that doesn't change, no matter how much Mr. Kotzias has. And because we negotiated, badly lying, now, don't be fooled, all that English to distinguish the citizenship from nationality? The whole world knows about it, a lower to get, you know, let alone when you have all the diplomats, who were, of course, ready to stand out. I, therefore, wanted them to be said, citizenship and citizenship as citizens of origin. It's a small word, but it's a big difference. Because on the one hand they would have citizenship and on the other they would have ethnicity. To all the foreigners who were coming and coming to my office today, I say to them a simple word: you tell me that this agreement gives me stability to the Balkans. I'll take it. It'll give stability in time. In the long term, it will act destabilising. Because by putting Macedon's hat on a multicultural state, you leave it open, ladies and gentlemen, and leave it open for the future. No Albanian wants to have Macedon's hat, and I'm not talking to you about small minorities in Skopje. So this is a colossal mistake and it is a mistake that you themselves, and yet if not you, Mr Kotzias knows that very well and try to hide it. I'm coming to language. In 2018 he was Mr Kotzias Minister. Weren't you, Mr. Kotzia? It was before Mr. Kammenos fired you. At that time you went to the UN.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u322	It's hard to understand that someone can resign from a ministerial position...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u323	Please don't make personal reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u324	Let me tell you my black truth, Mr. Kotzia, I'm with you. I'm on this subject with you. I assure you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And whoever asks me, I'll take your side because you were right mountain. You do the job, you owed it, you got fired, the other party had a party. You're right, whatever you say. Call me a witness in court. So I'll go down now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u325	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u326	Mrs Bakoyannis, while you are acting personally, you realize that you are creating a personal issue. That's all it takes. It has nothing to do with your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u327	He's interrupting, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u328	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, did I tell him I'm going to witness the court in his favour and is it a personal matter? Alas! So what I would like to read to you is the statement that he did - correctly, in my opinion - the Greek Ambassador, when he spoke about the language in 2018 at the request of Mr Kotzias. It says exactly, do not now read the details that Greece does not accept, that the issue of language was solved in '77, that for Greece it is a major issue and that Mr Kotzias said all the right things in 2017 to the UN. But he forgot when he signed the signature. That is the problem, ladies and gentlemen. And I'm glad it's a cool conversation today, and it's got to be a cool conversation, but they're saying fair and true. So in the question why we did not close, we did not close either because we do not want to be nationalists or why we are etherists, but because we did not in any way want to give ethnicity and language as Macedonians.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Kotzia, you have the floor for two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u332	Mr President, I was answered seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u333	Please don't make any suggestions to me if it's six, seven or eight minutes. I'm making an economy of conversation. All of you are very experienced, keep it. I leave more, Mr. Kotzia, and you know that. No suggestions, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u334	Good, Mr. President. You're right. The first thing I want to say is that Mrs. Bakoyannis is starting her intervention with personal attacks. He's used to it. I've never given a character. The difference in my political ethos is that I characterize political and not individuals. Be more careful, because you've paid for it too. The second is that whatever negotiation we made, we made it ready to find what we found, like the language. Her negotiator says so. He can't negotiate. And of course, I have a thousand reasons to observe the language. But the UN says, it says international law, something that you in your absence as a New Democracy have let it be guaranteed for that state, you cannot ask us for the change. And instead of taking the floor as soon as I speak, it would be better if they went to the UN working groups, went to expert working groups, went to the ISO working groups and answered and we wouldn't have had the problem. You guys made this up, you guys got to deal with him. Now, I want to say something else. I am a very noble man, extremely noble and extremely careful. I am not saying much about both parties, because I want to protect the country. But I'll just tell you something. You have done so for a long time - not you personally, New Democracy, don't take it personally - negotiation for the name - and PASOK did it in a phase - Macedonia (Skopje). And I'm asking: What's the name on that? What derivatives would it go to? But they did: they negotiated only the name and left all the other derivatives as they are. Because when you don't negotiate them, they'll stay the same and none of these derivatives will change.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u335	Be quiet, please. We have been aware for a long time of each speaker's account and opinions. Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u336	Mr President, as far as Mr Gryllakis is concerned, it was not the Government of Alexis Tsipras who made secret diplomacy. With the Minister, he did the diplomats. No one was used outside. Mr. Tsipras did not choose to negotiate with the commander of the NSA. He didn't introduce to diplomatic negotiation agents. If Constantine Mitsotakis and the agent who had to negotiate watched you, too, evil of your head and not mine. And finally, for the Macedonians, I do not want to talk much, because I said that I do not want to say everything. But there is a statement by Mr Samaras when he resigns from Constantine Mitsotakis and comes out of the Maximos Mansion. And what does Mr. Samaras say? "I could not agree with Mr Mitsotakis because he accepts the "Macedonian people" and the "Macedonians". She's alive, she's on the Internet. Inner part of you are making a number of problems here and not national ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u337	Thank you. Mrs Kollia Tsarouha, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, and then the Chief of Staff. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please be quiet, because we're wasting time. Get out of here, everyone who wants to. Please sit down and don't talk in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have listened to former Foreign Ministers with their objections, their aspirations, their approaches to this great issue which has come to the Greek Parliament. We, the Independent Greeks, nonetheless, consider it particularly unpleasant that we are here today to place ourselves here for the handover of a piece of our national identity, in fact accepting not the law of its legitimate occupant but the interest of the person who has misled it. The issue is quite obvious: Macedonia is one and no concession of its name is acceptable. The self-evident thing that I have just mentioned, only the group of Independent Greeks has stated it clearly since the first moment of its existence. All other factions - and we have seen it today, a little while ago - either trying to cover their mistakes or trying to present a superficial advancement, granting no substantial exchanges of pieces of our national sovereignty, either from naivety or as a product of unknown transactions or a lack of consciousness of the words 'patriots' and 'patriotism'. The name 'Macedonia', however, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be granted, it is not something that can be cut off from the back of Hellenism. It's not just a name of a place or people. It's not a mile on the map. The name of "Macedonia" is like the Acropolis, it's the Parthenon's marbles, it's like the Revolution of 1821, like the Epic of the '40s. It is a fundamental component of the identity of the Greek people, as important as democracy, the rule of law and the sovereign right of this Greek people to live in this blessed place. History itself proves the integral part of concepts. When Macedonian generals who followed Alexander the Great and spread the Macedonian territory to the end of the world, that time was not later named Macedonian but Hellenistic. It was so self-evident that these two concepts were one and the same that Macedonian dynasties created an entire historic period that took the name of Greece. With this argument alone, Mr President, the debate should be brought to an end. The representatives of the Greek people should unanimously vote against any proposal they wish to grant this integral part of our history. We are, however, in the unpleasant position - with a hurry that no one can see why there is - but an orderly and irregular majority of the Greek Parliament appear willing to grant the name, without considering the multiple implications of this choice. Ladies and gentlemen, here, instead of vertically rejecting the unjust concession of Macedonia's name, you are competing on who will grant the best conditions for Skopje. The name of Macedonia carries greater weight and is more important than other elements of Hellenism. It has enormous geopolitical and geostrategic significance and is a sign of incalculable value, identifiable throughout the globe, which confers sovereign rights in the wider region. That is why our neighbours, the Skopje, have been doing this huge and agonizing effort for years now. Of course, we realise that all this leaves some bourgeoisie. That is why we will stop calling your highest feelings and addressing your logic in this Parliament's position as the representative of the Independent Greeks. At this point we would like to show to the National Representation all the perforated points of the agreement which lead to its rejection and the dangers of positive attitude to its side. We do not need to look only at the positions of the Movement of Independent Greeks, as a large number of scientists, historians, archaeologists, constitutionalists and analysts have submitted names and official objections to the Prespecies Agreement. Everyone agrees at their overwhelming rate that the agreement, like any concession of the term "Macedonia" in Skopje, is nationally harmful, but also completely invalid, first of all because it grants an unnegotiable property of the Greek people, so it automatically raises the issue of unconstitutionality, which is even greater, as the Greek people have not been asked for this concession. While you know that the large majority disagrees, you continue. Secondly, it does not take into account the risks and demands raised at the outset by the neighbouring State. So it's actually not going to solve it. He's just trying to put it aside, leaving it unsolved. However, there are even more reasons, more typical, that cancel its own status in its typical place. First, the agreement and its implementation violates fundamental principles of public international law, the principle of correctness, clarity and the duty of truth. It opposes the international conventions for the protection of cultural heritage, the 1954 Hague Convention, Law 360 of '76, Law 1126 of '81, Law 3028 of 2002, and, above all, the UNESCO Convention ratified by the Greek Parliament by Law 3521/2006, which is confusing the cultural identity of peoples and nations. It conflicts with the Constitution because it violates the principle of reciprocity and the mandatory rules of general international law, as it does not include terms of solution, complaint and withdrawal, resignation, revocation or any designated body as a guardian of this agreement. It conflicts with the European Convention on citizenship - Strasbourg, 6 November 1997 - according to which States Parties to the Convention on citizenship must take into account the legitimate interests of States and individuals. It violates other international treaties, 1913 Athens Protocol, the Bucharest Treaty, the Lausanne Treaty. And all this without considering and taking serious account of the unacceptable manipulations made in Skopje in order to vote for the constitutional changes, despite the refusal of the majority of the people to participate in the referendum, without also taking into account the unacceptable manipulations made in the Greek Parliament, during which Members' departures and retreats took place here and there, which will be written in the history, ladies and gentlemen, as well as the irregularities of the committee's recommendation, which the President of the Independent Greeks has already denounced. All of this raises huge questions of democracy and legitimacy, which will not be forgotten after tomorrow's vote is concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, as President Panos Kammenos has said, there is a not so unfounded hypothetical question: What will happen tomorrow if the government of Skopje returns extreme nationalists, having this data in their hands? Do you think that's amazing? We don't. So what if in the next national elections in Skopje, the extreme right-wing nationalists of VMRO, who are pro-Russian, anti-American and renowned, come back? Everyone will agree that a nationalist government controlled by Moscow will then be vetoed within NATO. This is a huge issue, because Skopje nationalists do not want to have relations with the West. We know that Skopje nationalists are a hard group of political and economic life people who, as the vote has shown, are ready to change camp accepting financial compensation. It is clear that with the above data the agreement creates instead of reconciliation conditions, precisely the opposite. It creates deregulation factors that will be ready to explode at any time, dragging the peace and discipline of the Balkans. But in addition to these risks, ladies and gentlemen, the Presidencies' Agreement, unlike any concept of constitutional legitimacy, is before us. The professor of constitutional law, Mr Cassimatis, who has these days heard very much his name and his views here, says basic things, which I will briefly tell you and I shall submit to the Minutes, as other colleagues have probably done. "The Politics Agreement as an act of foreign policy of Greece is unacceptable. The Greek Constitution, the Skopje Constitution and international law violates fundamentally and procedurally. The Embassy Agreement is irresponsible because it contains a sovereign right, which cannot, in accordance with the Constitution, be subject to an international convention or to the exercise of governmental and legislative powers. This is a sovereign right and is not subject to any orderly authority. The revision of the constitution of Skopje did not comply with the Ambassadors' agreement, so the latter is, according to the revised constitution, an anti-constitutional." Mr Kasimatis concludes by addressing all of us: "Let us not violate our oath to the Greek people by voting in favour of this unconstitutional agreement which violates and threatens the vital interests of the sovereignty of Greece". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The Independent Greeks add to the above that the agreement does not have the signature of the President of the Republic of the Neighbourhood, which is an insult to all democratic institutions, both to our institution and to our President of the Republic, who must return it to Skopje. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear from all of this that the Prespecies Agreement is an unacceptable method against national interests and a great diversion from the principles of democracy. Its creators are either extremely naive - something we doubt - or move on to a particularly dangerous and dark design. That is why the Greek Members of Parliament, before voting on the Embassy Agreement, should consider where all this will lead. Since no one can assume such a great historical responsibility to ensure that any agreement with Skopje serves national interests and has the widest possible social and political acceptance, the Independent Greeks believe that each Greek has the right to express its opinion on the Skopje issue, which is why we are calling for a referendum. It is a given that the Movement of Independent Greeks will not support the agreement. It is voted against vertically and decisively and we demand that the government cancel it or move on to the referendum so that the Greek people decide. With the commitment that we will do everything possible to ensure that this agreement does not apply, we say that we do not need another amputation from another failure of Greek foreign policy. I am presenting in the Minutes the views of the constitutionalist, Mr Kasimatis, and the objections to the legal and constitutional issues recorded by the Independent Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mrs. Charuha. I call on the President of the New Democracy and Chief of Officership, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u340	Ladies and gentlemen, sometimes the series of speakers in the House plays strange games. Take note of the last two speakers who spoke before me. The first was Mr Kotzias, the main negotiator of the agreement, who defended it with passion. But he never explained why he resigned from the government so that Mr Kammenos could remain in the government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] He filed many documents in the Minutes of the House, but did not file the resignation letter. At some point we'll find out exactly what happened with this case. After Mr. Kotzias, the Parliamentary spokesman of the ANLL...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u341	Mrs. Bakoyannis spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u342	Please! Stop commenting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u343	No, Mrs. Bakoyannis answered for personal reasons. The ANE spokesman, having passionately defended her position towards the agreement, has never explained to us why the two Members who gave a vote of confidence in the government were not removed from your parliamentary group. The explanation is obvious. Because Mr. Kammenos had to stay as party leader. I think that all of this highlights what we have said in the past, strange parliamentary toys, underground tactics, so that Mr Tsipras can remain in the government, get the vote of confidence and, at the same time, organise a very convenient divorce with Mr Kammenos, who, of course, when he was able to cast the government on the previous vote of distrust, did not, of course, do so, because that was the chair above all! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely would have preferred that today's sitting had not been held and that I should not have spoken about this at all. The presidencies' agreement should never have been signed, and of course it should never have come to the Greek Parliament to be ratified, because it is a national defeat which has already been cancelled in the conscience of the people and a national mistake which insults both the truth and the history of our country. SYRIZA, while he's falling apart, insists on his destructive mission. After the economic shipwreck, Greece also leads to a national adventure. He ignores the patriotic sensations of millions of Greeks. It abandons a stable foreign policy for decades. It uses a national theme as a tool to serve party purposes and in order to achieve its goal, it even buys Members' consciences. Inferior to the circumstances, your government mocks political life with bazaars and intoxications. For a few months of power you've been turning the country back for years. We have a government where, one week, Mr. Tsipras is applauded by Mr. Kammenos and the other is applauded by Mr. Kotzias, who is dissecting one another, without of course being moved by a prosecutor from what lies with one another. It doesn't surprise me that the faces are falling and that the faces are being led to lies and self-pity. I am saddened by the fact that public life is being mocked and that national interests are being undermined. Besides, as SYRIZA himself has often confessed through top executives, he handles the scavenger as a catalyst for the reorder of the party scene. And while SYRIZA is a past, it is imperative to commit the country's future. Why is that? Ladies and gentlemen, within just two days the Greek Parliament is called upon to give its opinion on an extremely critical top issue, without having the most important, central material to be discussed, the full text of the revised Skopje Constitution, because this has not been submitted to the Greek Parliament. Why hasn't he been filed? Because it simply does not exist because it has not yet entered into force. The Skopje have already violated a basic condition of the agreement, first to change their constitution and then the agreement to ratify the Greek Parliament. Article 1(4) of the Ambassadors' Agreement. Here it is revealed that even the meteorological changes to the Skopje Constitution, which the Prespecies' Agreement predicted, will not apply from now, but only - be careful! - after Greece ratifys the agreement and after the NATO accession protocol has been ratified. In other words, Greek commitments are being made here and now, while scaffolding is expected elsewhere and sometimes. I don't have to say any more. I am simply saying that this method, in fact, is insulting Parliament and the Hellenic Republic, and this is a national and parliamentary shame and an unprecedented process, which Members must accept as - as. Greece has always been a European country in the Balkans, at least in its parliamentary tradition. You have managed to make it a Balkan country in Europe with all these terrain. I am enough here to mention the well-advertised private communication. Her own headline what she says? ‘Macedonia Republic’. The text refers to the Macedonian people. I wonder if the Skopje had already changed their constitution, should they not be described as the 'Republic of Northern Macedonia'? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Embassy Agreement begins with the very violation of its terms. And all that explains why you're urgent. Urgently, because you want to finish an hour ago, because you know that you have built a temporary parliamentary majority, based on the transaction, and you are afraid that the compromises that have been made will not last. They will not, because it is the wholehell for the politically perfected, the morally detested, with whom you are going to the vote and with which you may also be reconstructing tomorrow. It is a roll-call vote that we have before us, and everyone will be placed with a name. But the government's manipulations around the dust are behind us, which brought us here. Mr Kotzias secretly negotiated, in the absence of the House and in the absence of the parties, violating a policy of decades, which wanted all governments to seek wider consensus on this issue. Mr. Tsipras, the Council of Political Heads of State in Skopje met five times. Five times! Here you were setting up constructions in the underground of Maximos to split the Anti-Population. Aron, Mr Tsipras signed the Prespecies with the help of Mr Kammenos. Yes, it is Mr Kammenos himself who is now wearing the Macedonian uniform when in July he was able to cast the government in favour of the motion of censure. The person who said in the election "I keep Tsipras, I guarantee he will never hand over Macedonia", Mr. Kammenos himself, is the one who gave you the pen to sign the Prespes. [[Sustained applause from the New Democracy Wing]] So who are you kidding? The citizens understand everything and the preconscious divorce doesn't convince anyone. Yes, we never knew what happened on this Ministerial Council, what Mr Kotzias said, what he wrote in the resignation letter. And now by express procedures, SYRIZA wants to ratify an international agreement, which has power over any law, a precedent and a future. I won't say here that you're performing a contract or talk about treason. These words are not appropriate in the National Parliament, despite the disgrace that has been committed in this Chamber. Societies, however, have eyes and perception. I respect her judgment, I trust her verdict which will be given soon when she comes to the polls. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is trying to reverse reality within an orgy of demagogy and misleading. But you cannot hide seven great truths that turn the Ambassadors' Agreement into a national retreat. In fact, the agreement actually overturns a well-established national strategy in the Balkans. Greece has never singled out or reclaimed the entire geographical area of Macedonia. Steady forty years since the Treaty of Saint Stephen and especially after the Balkan Wars...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u344	Quiet, please. Please listen carefully. Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u345	...had a single aim, not to allow another people to monopolize this region, and above all to prevent the creation of a minority issue within the Greek territory. This policy was established by Eleftherios Venizelos, who primarily combined realism with national visions. However, this constant national attitude, Mr Tsipras, is now making a violent change, because SYRIZA and ANEL have agreed to be the Skopje, which will henceforth monopolise the identity of the wider Macedonia, and this is done by a vehicle of nationality, identity and language. Because your government accepted them as Macedonian. In fact, secondly, this unacceptable retreat is noted in the first article of the Agreement. In fact, Macedonian language recognition has been associated with this notorious story that Macedonian language has been allegedly recognized since 1977. This is a double lie, not only because the UN Conference was a completely different subject - the translating of material material into the Latin alphabet for standardisation purposes, it was a completely technical conference, as has, on the other hand, also been said by the bilingualist Professor, Professor Babiniotis, who took part in this conference - but it is a lie at a political level which is also demonstrated on the other hand. In the minutes of the meetings, published by the newspaper Kathimerini, they appear, Mr. Tsipras, the Skopje themselves to confess that Greece has not always recognized any Macedonian language. Greece had never recognized Macedonian language, never! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And what the Skopje did not dare say, you say so, Mr Tsipras. In other words, the Skopje said to us: 'You have not recognized Macedonian language' and you come and say: 'No, we had recognized it in 1977'. Congratulations, Mr. Tsipras, you've been negotiating brilliantly. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Look out, it's not just us. It is a NATO document, 2000, Mr Tsipras: "Macedonian language is unacceptable to one NATO delegation". NATO says so. NATO, therefore, did not recognise that Greece had recognized Macedonian language. And you come and give that up. You put it in the text of the agreement that will be binding on the country for many decades. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So go out, Mr Tsipras, and say directly that a Macedonian language will be spoken in the wider region, and that is guaranteed by your signature. Go out and say it, to the Greek Macedonians hear it in Northern Greece, because this is what you officially recognized for the first time with your own agreement. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Third, does Article 7 define with regard to Skopje the terms 'Macedonian' and 'Macedonian' will describe exactly what? Be careful, I read: "The territory, the language, the population and their characteristics, with their own history, culture and heritage". But all this is the definition of national identity. A clearer definition of nation has never been in international agreement, and in this case they also constitute something new - unacceptable! - a Macedonian identity that has nothing to do with Greece and which is not even called the North-Macedonian, so that it is typically linked to the new name of Skopje. In fact, there is this deliberate confusion between nationality, some claim to refer to nationality alone. Mr Tsipras, we all know English well and you and you know that the exact translation of the term would be citizenship. Citizenship in English is translated as a citizenship. It should follow the name of the state and be North-Macedonian. But that's not the case. The agreement recognises these citizens the right to be officially and legally designated as Macedonians and thus recorded on their passports. Indeed, it is funny for the Tsipras Government to sway over Mr Zaev's internal manoeuvres, the so-called financial communication imposed by Albanian MPs, in order to ensure their vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I want you to ask me a question. There are five countries with geographical names: South Africa, Central African Republic, South Sudan, East Timor and Equatorial Guinea. In all these countries, the name of the state lures, I repeat, the aggressive determinations concerning both citizenship and ethnicity. South African residents are called South African, South Sudanese. Even where the official name is different, there is a geographical designation, as is the case with North and South Korea, because they are not their official names. We say 'North Koreans' and 'South Koreans'. Only in northern Macedonia will its inhabitants be called "Macedonians" and speak Macedonian! Congratulations, Mr. Tsipras, you have originally been here. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, of course, the acronyms of the country, with the exception of car plates, what will they be, ladies and gentlemen? ‘MK’ or ‘MKD’, i.e. ‘Macedonia’, without referring anything to northern Macedonia. I'm really fourth. You even managed the famous erga omnes - that is to say, there is a name for all uses - to turn it to the detriment of our own interests. And I explain: The terms "Macedonians" and "Macedonian" your government internationally safeguards them for the neighbouring country. Article 1, 8 of the agreement clearly states that the parties will use the name and terminologies of Article 1, 3, those to whom I have referred, for all uses and for all the purposes of erga omnes, either internally or in all regional and international organisations. What does that mean? Erga omnes binds both countries, it concerns both parties of the agreement and Greece and Skopje. Macedonian identity and Macedonian language are also mandatory in Greece. So I say again, SYRIZA has agreed that we should be obliged - I repeat, to call the people of Macedonia as well, and this legally binds us. Describe it a little more enthusiastic. If tomorrow against the White Tower, a large sign is posted that reads "Study Company of Macedonian Language" and a Thessalonikios appeals to court, with the agreement you signed, it is not allowed to be justified. Enjoy your erga omnes, gentlemen of the Compression! Rejoice!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u346	Please, be quiet in the mountains! Don't mention names. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u347	Of course, the problem arises in multiples over trademarks. Hundreds of companies use the surname "Macedonian" in their brand. They are tragically exposed today, as the question of trade marks is referred to the future. I found a very interesting article by two professors of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Mr. Glavin and Mr. Ioannis Stefanidis. I read their article. It matters, listen to it. It concerns many in northern Greece and many businesses using the surname "Macedonian". So I read: 'The only Macedonian peaches that will be produced in northern Macedonia in the European Union and the World Trade Organization are those that will be produced in northern Macedonia'. If the term... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen. Listen, because this is what you sign and that's what you'll vote for and for that you'll be accountable for the next day. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you may have an easy time re-running your foot in Macedonia, but the consequences of what you sign will be paid as a country for many years. If, therefore, the term ‘Macedonian peaches’ is used...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u348	Stop, Mr. Papadopoulos! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u349	We have had a very cool conversation and I would ask you to keep your temper.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u350	Mr Papadopoulos, let me tell you not to interfere. Nobody was threatened. Nobody was threatened. Please, we all understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u351	If the term "Macedonian peaches" is used, Mr Besyropole, by producers of Veria and their use is confusing, they will have to change it. I submit the relevant article in the Minutes, but these are fine letters for you. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You'll hear it, you'll hear it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u352	Please! Please! Sit down immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u353	Really fifth, Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u354	Please be quiet. What kind of passion is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u355	Why that nerve? I think you understand the dramatic consequences of what you are going to do. You still have time to change your mind. It'll be for the good of the country. Really fifth. Listen, Mr. Tsipras, this is interesting. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prespecies Agreement, which you so advertise and with such passion, does not mention in one part the word "Macedonia" or "Macedonians" in relation to Greece. Nowhere does Greek Macedonian or Greek Macedonian write. Do you know how the text signed by Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kotzias defines Greece? As the Northern Region of Part One. I repeat the Northern Region of Part One. The area has a name, Mr. Tsipras. It's called Macedonia and it's part of Greek history, it's an integral part of the national trunk, it's identical to the historical consciousness of that nation! They live there proud Greek Macedonians. Once your agreement does not mention them. You despise them provocatively. [[Sustained applause from the New Democracy Wing]] FYROM's leaders have made sure that they do not accept anything, which would directly render the term "Macedonian" in Greece. On their behalf, they were seriously negotiated. They defended their own interests. You, it's the question, what did you do? They rejected the term "Greek Macedonia". The big question is why you left them. Really sixth. This agreement shall take effect from its signature, not from its ratification. It's something that doesn't get used to. First an agreement is ratified and then its consequences follow. In Prespes, however, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kotzias automatically signed the invitation of Skopje to NATO. They thus burned the country's most powerful diplomatic paper, a lever of pressure that would actually become stronger as the pressure to find a solution would increase. It turned out to be a national boomerang. Already since the summer of 2018, in fact since 22 June, by official letter to NATO, which I submit in the Minutes, the SYRIZA - ANEL then - the whole group, you - have given the green light by lifting the decision of Bucharest 2008 in secret and fast. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Didn't you get that hammer, Mr. Cammene, then that? Were you busy with other things? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You're accountable for this, Mr. Tsipras. But there's something more alarming. According to Article 2 of the Agreement, Greece must automatically consent to the entry of Skopje into each international organisation. One could easily claim that this is also the case for the European Union, where there is a special provision that we automatically consent to the opening of accession negotiations. The question is, what happens next? Will we automatically agree on the agreement and on the closure of any separate chapter, because that is what the agreement you signed stipulates? So I want to send a clear message from here. Since Greek citizens trust me as Prime Minister, I firmly refuse to interpret the agreement in this way. The Macedonian accession process to the European Union is not related to the Ambassadors' agreement. [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] Greece will maintain in full all rights arising from the status of the Member State of the European Union, namely the right to negotiate, open and close individual funds according to national and Community interests. In other words, Greece will at any time be able to veto the accession process of Skopje to the European family. And that right of our country, I refuse to dismiss it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Really seventh: The Prespecies Agreement is not coming to solve an old problem, but to add new to the region. It can, indeed, serve some temporary international interests. It may indeed, in time, give the impression that it creates stability in the region. But it creates a lasting minefield for the future. How will products be certified under the designation of origin of Northern Greece, when neighbouring products will now be officially released as "Macedonian"? What will change in the history books of both countries, so that there are no alpha-corruption reports? Did we have such a deal, Mr. Tsipras, and did we recognize them through your agreement? And who will stop a private Institute of Macedonian Studies tomorrow, next to our institution, when the use of the term is completely free for non-State bodies? This development, ladies and gentlemen, is full of traps. It already wakes up nationalisms and extreme behaviours that life itself had overcome in both countries. However, it also has side effects, which the current government is very keenly ignoring. For example, it reflects an old conflict, historically, between Macedonia and Bulgaria, as I would like to remind you that Bulgaria has never recognised "Macedonian language" nor "Macedonian nation". He sees the neighbor's tongue as a Bulgarian dialect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u356	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u357	Bulgaria's Foreign Minister did what you didn't dare. It warned that it would block Macedonia's entry into the European Union if its positions were not satisfied. You accepted to dismiss this right. These are the statements made by the Bulgarian Foreign Minister. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I wonder, Mr Tsipras: Bulgaria is our partner in NATO, the European Union. Why didn't we use those points where our positions are converging? What foreign policy is multidimensional that we have? And in any case, Mr Tsipras, can you explain to me what exactly Greece is gaining from this agreement, in addition to the good words that you will receive personally, because you have put Skopje in NATO on an excellence? There is another government finding that the Prespecies Agreement will prevent or block, in turn, an Islamic bow, the famous Turkish influence in Skopje. I fear that this argument is blown up by the Skopje themselves. They are willing, firstly, to acknowledge that their population includes Turks. It's clearly written in the preamble. I'll come to the preamble matter next. Turks, on the other hand, are training their army.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u358	That's exactly why...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u359	While in Turkey, Mr Kotzia, he made his first trip - three days - the Macedonian Foreign Minister, immediately after the change of the constitution in Skopje. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do you think all this could be overturned, Mr. Tsipras, because Mr. Zaev gave you his tie? I doubt it. That is why your foreign policy is both unscrupulous and presumptuous, and that is why it is dangerous. Ladies and gentlemen, these are seven painful truths about the Ambassadors' agreement. Unfortunately, they are not the only ones, because behind every prediction of caradokuno new minefields. But all the problems arising from the Prespecies Agreement begin, they have as a operative cause the fact that you recognized "Macedonian" identity and language. It is something that, as I will prove afterwards, no Greek politician has ever thought of doing. Because in these two legs, identity and language, the risk of altruism is based. It is challenging, Mr Tsipras, to say - and I sincerely hope you do not repeat this today - that the Prespecies Agreement is a continuation of a national strategy. Mr. Tsipras, you're Prime Minister. I want to remind you of these words. "The issue for Greece has always been the expansionist propaganda of Skopje, with the spearhead of the non-existent minority and with a supplement to the words "Macedonian" or "Macedonia" to identify a specific, distinct ethnicity. That is the problem." Constantine Mitsotakis, 1993. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Constantine Mitsotakis had a great concern. It was at risk, alongside the religious minority in Thrace, for a second minority to emerge, with national characteristics. Therefore, even though he had accepted in his mind the concept of a complex name, he did not accept any concept of "macedonian" identity, ethnicity and language. You will come and tell me, Mr. Tsipras: What are you saying about a 'Macedonian' minority in northern Greece? Some people have already taken care, by posting, of themselves as members of the "national Macedonian minority" to celebrate the agreement you signed. Today they did. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is where your policy leads us, Mr Tsipras. We will find these problems before us over time. You are also Minister of Foreign Affairs. So I will read you an interesting quote from a document from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to see if your policy really is a continuation of old policies, as you said. I have already told you about the New Democracy policy. Let's go and see what the PASOK was saying. "Greece does not make any territorial or minority claims on the Macedonian territories of Yugoslavia and Bulgaria, but does not accept the existence of a "Macedonian" minority on its territory." "Don't recognize" - I repeat, "do not recognise the existence of a "macedonian" nation, language, etc." Do you know who wrote this? Yiannis Charalambopoulou, Minister of PASOK in 1983. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It was the policy that you abandoned, because you said 'yes' where all the previous speakers said 'no'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I wonder: Could anyone claim that, all right, the political, new left government has changed and wants to pursue another policy. So let's see what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself said in an internal document which gave guidance on how to deal with these problems at international meetings. He writes the official document of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Foreign Affairs Kotzia: "It is also recalled that our country does not accept the use from the skeptical side of the surname "Macedonian-Macedonian" and does not recognize MK and MKD codes. Just what you signed! [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You were telling them, with your own documents, about a year ago! Your government! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So here we have a double challenge. The government - and the proud and smiling Minister, Mr Kotzias - who recognises 'Macedonian identity', 'Macedonian people', 'Macedonian citizenship', 'Macedonian language', and, in my assessment, all of this is a 'Macedonian nationality', dares to say that it follows the policy of all those who were vertically opposed to this policy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What I understand you say, Mr Tsipras, is that Constantine Mitsotakis - who said what I said before - would never speak about Macedonians, as Mr Zaev did before you and you did not open your mouth. You claim that Costas Karamanlis, Dora Bakoyannis, would ever accept a state of North Macedonia with a people but "Macedonian" and "Macedonian language". You should be aware that this is exactly what the US documents, which Mr Kotzias has been very enthusiastic about, have revealed, except that they did not understand that what was leaking actually undermined his arguments. In the documents themselves, it is recognised that in no case can Mrs Bakoyannis, the Greek Government, accept the term 'Macedonians'. I'm filing it again. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, there is an even more interesting document, which I know has never been tabled in the Minutes. It is also a document from the American Embassy and analyses the situation and the position in which Gruevski has arrived. And I read in English: ‘Claming that it is next to Impossible that the Government of Greece will have every opportunity to a document that will be definite the cities of this country as ‘Macedonians’ and the language as Macedonian’. I translate: It was almost impossible for the Greek Government of 2008 to accept a text that would define the citizens of this country as "Macedonians" and their language as "Macedonian". [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's what Kostas Karamanlis said. He closed the door in the face! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] When Mr Zafe asked for it, you opened the doors and windows to them. You never negotiated them! You didn't care. If you read the Minutes carefully by the Council of Political Heads, you will find that the issue of language and identity has never discussed it. It's been closed from the first moment. I wonder, however, why would we be looking into history's texts to see the degree of divergence of your own policy from those of all the previous prime ministers? Mr. Tsipras, wasn't Mr. Zaev, who publicly referred to two peoples, Greeks and Macedonians before you? He said it in front of you. You didn't stop him, you didn't fix him, you didn't get angry! You only smiled, as usual. Well, since you didn't talk and then, what did you come to tell us now, Mr. Tsipras? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I fear, however, if I judge your silence, you are very quiet in this sitting - that I speak to ears of no listeners.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u360	Please be quiet! Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u361	I speak to MPs willing to raise their hand, beating their heads, sacrificing obstacles that go far beyond them! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But here, there is a central question. Should we wonder? Should it surprise us that you negotiated in this way? Just yesterday, the Vice-President of the House, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, reminded us not just that she signed letters with Mr. Gavroglou, Mr. Tsakalotos - there you sit in the background, celebrate also you, for your sake, and above! - to recognize Skopje as "Macedonia", but - what did you say to us, ma'am? - that you were proud of it! Rejoice you and all the rest of you for your pride! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Aren't you embarrassed? You've been proud too! Shame on you, shame on you, shame on you! [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] We were fighting Bucharest!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u362	Sit down, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u363	Am I going to be ashamed of my ideas?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u364	We fought, you were proud! You're proud too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u365	Do you give me up morally for my ideas? Political beliefs are not judged by moral standards. Democrats are not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u366	Mr. Xydakis, sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u367	Raise their hand to those who were proud. Let's count.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u368	Personal attacks don't help the conversation. Whoever understands it understands it, he understands it! You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u369	This was the time when the Karamanlis government fought a great battle against many international pressures in Bucharest. But why does that have to surprise us too? Mr Tsipras, you called me - I was here in my office in the House - and you asked me: 'How do you like the name 'Iliden Macedonia'? And I'm on the phone! Either you're completely unbelievable or you're cynical or you're just both! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why don't we make fun of it, you accepted Iliden. This is reflected in the Skopje minutes. When you realise, of course, that this did not go through anything in Greece, that this is the epitome of alutism, you did backwards. As I have said before, Skopje could even be called "Central Balkan Republic". But I would still not agree and we would not agree to the agreement if their people were called "Macedonian" and spoke "Macedonian language". Because I say it again: there is the heart of the problem, of identity and language. These, however, never cared for your party. Anyone who has no problem with Macedonia has a point of celebrating the Prespecies. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has an obligation to always speak with the language of truth, let alone national issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u370	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u371	I spoke with evidence and documentary, but you're annoyed. You've learned to falsify the truth! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Don't worry, don't get upset, I imagine the Prime Minister will have time to answer. It would be easy for me to do it. I have chosen today not to invoke emotion, but logic, to speak with documentary and arguments and not with voices and slogans. I personally must be honest, but also be clear. I would remind you, therefore, from the Step of the House, that the party has given us a great battle. We denounced the secret governmental manipulations when Mr. Kotzias was launching them, sending a risk signal for what's coming. We demanded cooperation, but we have seen that SYRIZA has done a partisan tool even of the national issues, the ones connected with the national interest. First I said openly that SYRIZA chose to divide the Greeks to unite the Skopje, to characterise extremists, fascists, graphics, nationalists all those who have a sensitivity to this issue. And you keep telling us that because we articulate this argument, we fish in the cloudy waters of the far right. Mr. Tsipras has said it ten times. You ruled with the far right. So let go of that candy. You don't finish the Golden Dawn trial. You vote together with the Golden Dawn and you appoint chairmen of independent authorities. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have divided the Greek people, you consciously, characterizing all those who have justifiable sensitivity to this issue as graphics and nationalists. We - not only ourselves, but also the other parties - have succeeded in preventing the trap of the 'Ilinden Macedonia'. Mr Tsipras - I repeat - accepted it. And we yelled when he went to blur the waters - we have forgotten this chapter - because at some point you had talked to us about an allegedly irreversible solution to the name 'Severna Makedonija'. You lied to the Greeks, even on the eve of the deal you brought. We have informed all our allies in the European People's Party and I have not hesitated to disagree even openly with our strong partners, such as Chancellor Merkel. You've swallowed what you said I say abroad and other things on the inside, when Mrs Merkel came out and said that we disagree on this issue - you've done so arrogantly - because we have the courage of our opinion. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I spoke to her clearly, as I speak to the Greeks, in promoting the national interest. We told the truth. We've been criticizing. We have proposed solutions. We have informed our partners. We fought for our national positions. We have exploited all our democratic, all our parliamentary weapons and showed who really serve the national interest and we are proud of our attitude. I am proud of the New Democracy and of the attitude it has taken over these months. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We looked the Greeks in the eyes. We told them the truth. We didn't fool them. We didn't deceive them. We really explained what the stake is. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, today the House lives one of the most critical moments in the country and we should all know what will happen the next day. So if the Prespecies Agreement is ratified, it will not be cancelled the next day, as it has greater force than any law. International law makes it unchangeable. Every amendment is extremely difficult. Any violation of it can mean international isolation and an international court for our country. The burden to be borne by the next government is enormous and that is why it is all today and tomorrow - as the roll-call vote will take place tomorrow, as I have heard - not the day after tomorrow. The time of responsibility is now, not in the future. The leaders are judged here, not elsewhere. That is why the New Democracy, with its whole consciousness, takes a stand on the side of national dignity. We are voting against the Embassy Agreement. [[Upright Members of the New Democracy applaud vividly and protractedly]] Tonight and tomorrow in this Chamber a lot is judged. The House will become the political mirror in which the Greeks will face the true face of each of us. Clear words, then! I say this to some people who consider that they can play two-doors on the one hand and say that they are against the government and, on the other hand, voting for the Ambassadors' Agreement. Every vote in the Prespecies Agreement means a vote on Mr Tsipras to continue his destructive work. Any other position, any other differentiation will be just pretexts in sin. They are moments of responsibility, they are moments of truth, and I am glad that for the first time after too long Parliament's galleries have been filled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u372	Quiet, please. Don't choose.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u373	Do not insult the people who came to attend the meeting. So there are moments of responsibility, and there are moments of truth, and that is why I am addressing everyone, even those who divide us a great deal, but it unites us - all of us - love for our country. The people will send their own message. He'll send it to the polls soon. He asks for the government of lies, misery, division and decline to leave. In a short time, however, will you all choose who you are: With SYRIZA and the national categorisation of the "Presses" or with the people, pride and hope? So I invite you all not to make this beautiful place of the lake of the Presidencies synonym with a national retreat. I call on you not to open any more wounds to the national cord, because some people want to close this loose end to allegedly stabilise our neighbourhood. I urge you not to abandon a policy of decades, which may indeed have made us unpleasant and made us unpleasant to the mighty of this world, but has protected our national interests. I call on you not to reach an agreement that - remember my words - we will find it before us and will not be good. I urge you in the roll-call vote which will follow to say 'no', to stand up to the circumstances, to stand up to history. That is the duty of all of us. This is our patriotic duty and this task is served in full by the New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u374	Since there have been two personal references with political content, Mr Kammenos will then have the floor, after the Prime Minister, and the opportunity will obviously be given immediately to answer. And Mrs Christodoulopoulos, too, is to the speakers afterwards and will be able to answer them. I would ask you not to interrupt the course of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u375	Mr President, I am entitled to the Rules of Procedure, and I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u376	No, please, I interpret the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Kammenos. He didn't swear on you. There's nothing personal. It's a policy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u377	No, it's not politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u378	Absolutely politics.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u379	To develop why isn't it politics?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u380	No, please too. I do not want the debate to be cut. You understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u381	Do I have the option for thirty seconds to have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u382	What did the staff say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u383	The Chief of Officer's Reconciliation in one third of the speech referred to me personally...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u384	No, Mr. Kammenos, I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u385	I want the floor for a minute to explain to the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u386	You'll talk next, Mr. Kammenos. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u387	Mr. President, this is Mr. Mitsotakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u388	Please, you don't have the floor. A political confrontation has become tough.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u389	No controversy. I'll be done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u390	Why are you having trouble?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u391	It's not hard for me, it's hard for you to find it, and I don't understand why.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u392	Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u393	Mr President, we would be done. It repeats falsely in this Chamber and the Chief of Officerial Representation and several of the Members of the New Democracy, that the Independent Greeks, with our signature, have enabled the Ambassadors' Agreement to proceed with the motion of censure in July. Mr President, in his motion of censure in July, the Greeks had seven votes. It took a hundred and twenty-seven of the New Democracy and those who voted against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u394	Please stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u395	It means that the hundred and fifty-one votes to overthrow the government didn't have them. The second is that the New Democracy has two lines. Mr Mitsotakis says that Greece never wanted to monopolize Macedonia and Mr Samaras that Macedonia is a Greek one. So here, it contrasts with what was voted yesterday...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u396	So there's nothing personal. Excuse me, Mr. Kammenos!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u397	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u398	What are you closing up? Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u399	So I suggest to Mr Mitsotakis, if you really...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u400	Do not despise the right reason!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u401	Here I have my resignation as a Member of Parliament. Sign a second, along with a hundred other MPs, not to pass the Prespecies Agreement. Come on, Mr. Mitsotakis, let's submit it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u402	Please, you are experienced and should not take advantage of the alleged personalities. All three themes, which you have spoken about in the last ten days and four days the House is discussing, we have heard them in all tons, with all the opportunities, they have been answered, repeated, and they have been completely out of reach, let me say. The President of SYRIZA and Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mitsotakis, you have spoken for over an hour once again with an insulting and derogatory speech vis-à-vis the MPs and the government on a critical national issue, with a divisive reason, with one reason that one might say gives extremists all these days the opportunity to offend the MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u404	Ladies and gentlemen, are we starting now? Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u405	You were disturbed because the SYRIZA MPs were particularly quiet when you succeeded against them in an insulting manner. They were and will remain quiet, Mr Mitsotakis, because in the strategy of tension we will not follow you. I hope your Members will be quiet now that they hear arguments. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And since you are smiling about this, I cannot start by saying that all these days both in Parliament and in the public speech we have all witnessed an extreme rhetoric, an extreme targeting of specific people. We have witnessed regular intimidation and terrorisation of MPs, at first with messages, followed by posters of their people. Then, we have witnessed invasion orders that were trying to enter the Greek Parliament and in the last few days we have witnessed arson groups in the house of Mr. Kastoris, Mrs. Jack and at the same time that we are talking about, outside the house of two MPs of SYRIZA, Mrs. Skoufa and Mr. Karagiannidis groups of extreme tramps and para-states are, to intimidate and terrorize MPs of the Greek Parliament. So you spoke more than an hour ago, but unfortunately you did not find a single word to condemn these extreme actions, this climate of terrorisation and intimidation of the Members of the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Contrary to - and I must confess - with your party's parliamentary representative, Mr Teddy, who, in his honour yesterday, took the floor, had the courage of his opinion, put the dividing line to where he should, in the face of the extremists, the tramps, those who call the MPs who have a different view of traitors, and those who have historically proved themselves to be at critical moments in history on the part of the conqueror, the Nazis or the fascist Bulgarians in our northern part of Macedonia. You didn't find a word, Mr. Mitsotakis, so you didn't find a word. Only what you have tried to do has once again been to address with one word many times extreme, sometimes emotional, once again targeting those who have a different view in the Greek Parliament on a critical national issue. Indeed, today is a critical meeting and tomorrow a critical vote after almost thirty years of inertia and backing national retreats on a crucial subject. After a whole year of negotiations, discussions and exhaustive dialogue, we are ending a difficult persistent, painful and historic process. But I, Mr Mitsotakis, have not come here today, I have not come up in this Step, to deal mainly with my political opponents. I'll answer everything you said, but I haven't come for it. I have come mainly to deal with what I feel historically responsible, with what I feel national responsibility, with the historical and national responsibility each and every three hundred of the National Representation, who are not blackmailed, who are not intimidated, are not terrified and speak only with their conscience. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Our nation must learn to consider national what is true, our national poet, Dionysius Solomon, had said. And I think that in a major national problem we should be telling truths today. To tell truths that don't start with what happened yesterday, the other day, a year now. Because hours - hours listening to you, but also to Mrs Bakoyannis, who I think has raised very substantial issues in her speech, your arguments, we have lived in another country for thirty years. The crucial issue of thirty years, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the national position and attitude and negotiation of the nomadic name with our northern neighbour was not to accept a complex name with the term 'Macedonia', with a geographical definition vis-à-vis all, but the crucial issue of the negotiation made by the previous governments was the language and whether we would have nationality or citzenship. I really feel like we're living in another country. And because we don't live in another country, I challenge you, Mr. Mitsotakis. The day before yesterday, in fact, thousands of protesters gathered. The majority of them had nothing to do with the extremists who attacked Parliament. Indeed - many of your officials were there, you were absent - if you asked one of them 'what is the matter, why are you protesting?', they would tell you about the name 'Macedonia'. They wouldn't tell you about citizenship and nationality, they wouldn't tell you about language or peaches of course. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Nor, of course, would you, Mr Mitsotakis, be told of all these incredible arguments that we have heard all these days. You are trying to create impressions here, showing exceptionally minor and complex legal issues as key arguments against the agreement. This highlights the poverty of your arguments against the agreement. When you deal with such sensitive issues of international law, which cannot be understood by non-experts, it means that you are unable to find even a blur in this agreement. You came here today to tell us that we do not have the constitution, because we only have the amendments to the constitution. And you don't know, you don't know that in a number of countries, including the United States of America, if you go back to the official site on the constitution of each country, you will see the constitution in its original form and the amendments, the amenments, all listed below in the original form of the constitution. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's nonsense you've been telling us all these days. You are dealing with absolutely secondary issues and not with the essentials. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why do you care about secondarys and not about the essentials? Because you have misguided arguments. Mr Mitsotakis, a large part of your speech - indeed, at first you started - you consumed it in your confrontation with Mr Kammenos. I understand your difficulty there now in the right building. Now that we're done with the Prespes, instead of opposing me, you're going to oppose the other right-hand apartments, because there's a great crowd and you can't fit in who's gonna get the best apartment. I wish you luck! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But I am not going to go into direct answers to a number of inaccurate arguments. I will try, as I said at the outset, today from this intervention to a critical meeting to deal with what I feel as a responsibility, with arguments, with no screams, no slogans and no attempt to mobilise emotion, anger or fearfulness - much more - reflexively. And I will try, ladies and gentlemen, by following this urge that it is national that I speak about a number of truths. And the truth is, starting from the outset, that our difference with our northern neighbours over their name has troubled our country, it has troubled our neighbours, it has troubled the Balkans, the international community for three decades, and we have been deprived of a critical diplomatic fund, which has been abducting us many times from the real dangers facing the country and which - not to be laughing at - are not at our northern borders, but at our eastern borders. The truth is that the inertia, the atmosphere, the procrastination that has become a doctrine of foreign policy for years has resulted in - and continues - continuous diplomatic defeats from the Greek side and ultimately, the recognition of our neighbours by their constitutional name from more than a hundred thirty countries around the world, including the largest, most important, the United States, Russia and China. And the truth is that even countries that officially do not recognize the neighbour under their constitutional name, the whole press, the whole public opinion, call it "Macedonia" without any other designation. You know that well. Even Mr. Georgiadis was running out of a website that he manages. The truth, too, is that this inertia has not finally resulted in us losing the name 'Macedonia', since in any website, if you look at this article today, you will unfortunately not find our own culture or tradition, the White Tower, but will see Skopje. That's the truth. But we didn't lose because of the inertia just the name. We were at risk of losing a large part of our history, since the prevalence of nationalists in our northern neighbour VMRO, for many years, had led them to an unprecedented misrepresentation of counterfeiting and falsification of history, cultural heritage and symbols of Macedonia, which was and is historically an integral part of the ancient Greek heritage. The truth, too, is that Greece also prevailed in the early 1990s as a nationalist impulse, which shaped the climate to public opinion, creating the image of a country which was fearful, without national confidence, with its people without awareness of the greatness of its history and, therefore, without confidence and without awareness of the country's modern dynamics. And it was seen as a country and a people who are constantly alert to a country that has 6% of its GDP and 2 million inhabitants. A climax of this paradox has been the maximalist position agreed at the famous Council of Political Heads in 1992 - except the JRC, if I am not mistaken - for not using the term 'Macedonia' or its derivative from the neighbouring country. The truth, however, is that this position, while for many years it has kept the fantasies of many and much of the public opinion, has never been implemented by any government in the exercise of foreign policy. I am referring to the diplomatic processes and the names that the Greek governments have negotiated in the years to come. The truth, too, is that the term "Macedonia" in the name of our neighbours, obviously, and we did not accept him first, Mr Kotzias and I, but he was first accepted by Mr Samaras, the great Macedonian leader, who put broadly his signature in the Community Regulation 3567 on trade agreements on 2 December 1991, with which, for the first time, they were recognised as "Macedonian Republic" and told us today that it was another trade agreement, like all the others. Also, at the Council meeting on 16 December, according to the words of the late Constantine Mitsotakis, Mr Samaras retreated into the pressures. "They were soaked," Mitsotakis said, "I am not saying this and did not ask for a definitive solution to the issue in exchange for Croatia's recognition, where the Greek side could veto. Of course, he was the first to invest in this deprivation, to which I referred earlier, in the mobilisation of the world against the complex name, which the government was then defending, in order to throw the same government in which he participated and to make a political career. The truth, too, is that Greece was the first to formally propose in negotiations to Mr Gligorof the complex name "Macedonia", with Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis in 1993. The truth, too, is that the term "Macedonia" accepted him, even as a temporary name - which lasted twenty-five years - by the so-called "Interim Agreement", which was concluded only three years after that famous Foreign Policy Council, which said "no producer". And then it was the government of PASOK, the government of Andreas Papandreou. Did we accept what then? Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia! And by cowardly confrontation with the truth as a nation and as a political system what did we do? We invented this phenomenal idea, when we are all talking about this country, just saying the originals, never say it whole thing. Macedonia or FYROM, as if "M" was another word and not the word "Macedonia". And when we talked to people who live, we did not call them Macedonians or FYROMites, we called them Skopje, by the name of their capital. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u406	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u407	The truth, too, is that especially after the recognition of the neighbouring country by the United States of America in 2004, the negotiating position of our country deteriorated considerably. In the eyes of international public opinion Greece began to appear to be part of the problem of instability in the region. We had a situation about it, and we have a situation about it. Because instability in the region will create the preconditions of a great Albania, which we do not want, and instability in the region will create the conditions for tension, which we do not want at our northern border. Thus, we have slowly reached the PASOK governments which have negotiated, not with the beginning of the 1992 Heads of State or Government, but with what we now call the 'national line', and much later this national line has become crystallined, with the Karamanlis government, and it has been cleared as the line of the complex name known as 'Macedonia', with a geographical definition against all. It was a position that all governments supported, at least from 2007 until today. All of them nonetheless. You announced it in tens of programme statements in this Chamber, in tens of international fora - as is the government of Mr Samaras, his ministers and Mr Avramopoulos - who is voting in the College of Commissioners for the current agreement, where he had a unanimous decision in favour of the Prespecies Agreement, and others that state in public. This is the stability that you see, gentlemen of the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u408	Please, just quiet down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u409	And, of course, Mr Samara's government. We all remember, we know that Mr. Venizelos, Vice-President of the Government, in 2014 at the UN General Assembly announced this position. We have also all seen Mr Samaras' own interview, who said "if they accept the erga omnes, think about it". Of course, I imagine he did - because I don't want to underestimate him - with his mind that they won't accept it. Today, however, he told us from this Step of the House, forging too, like our neighbours, the history of our country's political life, the history of the Greek governments, but also of your prolongation, that your prolongation and therefore the country's foreign policy - put them all in - was always in the sense, in the sense that Macedonia is a Greek one. Be careful, he did not mention anything that we could all agree on, namely in ancient Greek Macedonia, but he referred to modern as a geographical area. It has never been in their own line, he says, of party and foreign policy, the notion of many Macedonians. I remember that Costas Karamanlis as Prime Minister had clearly stated that 'the term Macedonia has always been used to define a wider geographical area' - I read a quote from his intervention - 'the majority of which is outside the borders of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, hence the name', said, 'it could have included the term Macedonia, but it could have taken the lead in an adjective to distinguish it from the wider geographical area. And it is clear that any complex name must reflect this geographical reality." What geographical reality? That in the modern geographical region of Macedonia, just over half of Greece owns another large part of Bulgaria and another part of Macedonia is Macedonia with the Skopje and Macedonians, who 70% are Slavs, Slavs and Slavs, because they live in the region of Macedonia and 30% of Albanian ethnic origin. Of course, Mr. Mitsotakis today, to be honest with him, not to blame him, was differentiated from Mr. Samaras. Don't take him and the whole party has taken him two-thirds! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He said that he never singled out the entire Macedonian policy of his party and Greece. Well, that's right. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] So the truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that this was the national line, a position which our government did not produce. Our government found it from you. He found her and went on with her. I'm coming to other nice truths now. The truth is that in 2008, in Bucharest, the Karamanlis government, with Mrs Bakoyannis then Minister, tried and managed to get the consent of the partners to NATO so that the neighbouring country would not join its provisional name in NATO - that of the Interim Agreement, that is, FYROM - without however vetoing, as it is rumoured. Because that's the truth. There was never a veto. And that's what I'm going to say, because I want to tell all the truths, it was a success...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u410	Quiet, please. Quiet, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u411	...to the extent that the Interim Agreement itself provided that Greece had no right to veto the accession of a neighbouring country, with its provisional name to any international organisation. The truth is that the handling later on of this success - by the government that achieved it, but also by subsequent - was disastrous, because the government itself and its officials then, with public statements, celebrated - again to the nourishment of the ever misleading public opinion that was still left in '92, in the Council of Heads of State - that Greece vetoed Bucharest. And so came the unfavourable decision for Greece of the United Nations Court of Justice in violation of the '95 Interim Agreement at the Bucharest Summit in 2011. Furthermore, the truth is that the European Union, too, has repeatedly proposed the launch of negotiations on the accession of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia to the European Union. But with these favourable data, for Macedonia, the neighbouring country had never even asked, never even discussed, never even agreed to discuss changing its name against everyone, that is, erga omnes, and in all negotiations on the international and European framework, they only came by accepting the double name. That's her constitutional name on the inside. And now it's your self-determination. Then it was not our fault that some governments were negotiating the double name, namely "Macedonia", "Macedonia" in the interior. I don't want to make any telegrams or letters. It doesn't make sense, because I feel national responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u412	Why didn't Kotzias listen?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u413	I won't make it, Mr. Mitsotakis. But I will tell the truth here today and recognize the Greek people. If you want, disprove me. So, then, our neighbours were telling their constitutional name in the interior, which all the important countries had recognized - they had no reason to maintain another attitude - and, of course, a remnant they negotiated for the rest of the world, of which they had never made the term 'Macedonia', because that was the basis for the negotiation. And of course, there has never been any debate - because they have not opened the debate - about changing their constitution. No conversation. This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, about what happened in 1992, how hard the country has been, how much the country had to bear on its foreign policy, without it being able to resolve an issue that - unfortunately, I say - our partners have not understood nor yet understood. And how much capital we have consumed from directing to the really large national issues that are not in the north. Finish this doctrine. Mr. Voridis has been left in this doctrine, but it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u414	You got over it fast and easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u415	It was the time of the Cold War that this doctrine, from north to north, is the threat. It's not a threat north. So our government is coming. And of course, for almost thirty years, I repeat, we had this incredible duplication, a lot of public opinion to think that our great problem is the term "Macedonia" - even today he thinks - all governments are struggling for a complex name, called "Macedonia" and, of course, don't even drive us crazy, no one put language and ethnicity as the main theme. And I'll explain why. And so we come and find a chance in front of us. The government's changing there. The nationalist government of Mr Gruevski is changing VMRO, which says exactly the opposite of what you are saying. You are the different side of the same coin. What do they all say? They say Zaev's "You betrayed us," Zaf said, "You sold our Macedonia to the Greeks," Zaev said, "you gave both language and ethnicity, you gave it all". And you say the same to us. Do you know why? Read the announcement VMRO made on the private communication. Read it! "He refined Macedonia. There is no Macedonia anymore. He made us "North Macedonia", we gave our name, we gave our language, we gave everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u416	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u417	Mr. Voridis, you have a lot of wonders about what is being heard. Please don't be loud. Process them inside of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u418	Nationalism on both sides has a key feature: the patriocape. But nationalism, especially in the Balkans, has led to great, painful adventures among the peoples. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I think it is now time to get away from this vicious cycle of nationalism and to see the future of prosperity, peace, progress and cooperation. So we come, and we really take this opportunity. The nationalist government has changed, a progressive leader, a progressive party - socialist, Mrs Gennamas, socialist indeed - and we are trying to find a mutually acceptable solution. Not to go and figure them out, not to go down. Based on what you're telling us, you're looking to find the hypothesis, we should have made war and conquered them. We didn't do that. We made a deal, a compromise. And what did we put as the top of this compromise? Everything that you fought as central issues twenty-five years ago and you did not make it. And we did it. And now, you are saying: 'You traitors have achieved it'. So what did we do? We have, firstly, achieved a complex name with a geographical designation. This is what we forced our neighbours to change their constitutional name, by which they had already been recognised more than a hundred and thirty times and by the "Democratic Republic of Macedonia" they were thinking about doing so "Republic of Northern Macedonia", so that tomorrow our children, when they enter the internet and press the entry "Macedonia", that the White Tower should come out and that the Skopje should not come out. That's what we did! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Secondly, we have achieved what they did not even discuss with your governments, Mrs Bakoyannis, Mr Karamanlis, Mrs Gennamas, nor even discuss the Erga omnes against everyone and for every use.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u419	Not everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u420	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u421	This means that this use will not only be used in the international relations of the country with other countries and international organisations, but will also apply to the interior of the country where they are forced to change their constitution, download the signs from their airports, from their streets, they will not be able to have a state theatre Macedonian, they will have "North Macedonia", they cannot have a national group of Macedonian, they will have a national group of "North Macedonia". Those little ones. Thirdly, we have managed our neighbours by reviewing their constitution to amend those provisions containing reports of amputation and revision. In fact, they align their constitution with what the Greek Constitution says in its relevant diaspora provisions. In addition to the constitutional review, in the same agreement, our neighbours undertake not to instigate any non-friendly acts against our country. They undertake not to make redundant statements, they undertake not to take such statements from anyone who is alleged to act in their own interests, undertake to respect the existing borders, to abandon all kinds of aberrant rhetoric, all kinds of altruistic actions from anyone who comes from them. Fourthly, we managed to use the term "Macedonian", "Macedonian", in relation to the state structures and bodies of the state only to leave to the Greek side, that is what I told you earlier that they cannot have a university in Macedonia. Greece may have and will obviously have. Of course, I do not even want to respond to the inaccuracies you have said, namely that we have to call them "Macedonians" and "Macedonian" etc. You haven't even read the deal. Article 7.5. makes it very clear. I would like to ask you: How exactly do you want to tell them? Snipers? I would like to ask you what your position is on this. Because in a question you have asked, Mr Kumucako, when the conflict had not been opened for reasons of micro-party confrontation, even you wanted to address Mr Kammenos to criticise him, who has always had this right-hand side of the'multi-building', you have referred yourself to when you were analysing the population of the neighbouring country, to Albanians and Slavomaedones. You said it yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u422	One century they're called...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u423	If I answer each, I won't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u424	Oh, no. There was a deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u425	The fifth that we have won, and I think it is the most important of all, is that the Greek tradition and the historical heritage of ancient Greek Macedonia is guaranteed in the most clear, legally binding way. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because unlike some who think that the name is our soul, I think our soul is our story. Our story is our soul and we get it back. No longer will anyone be able to whistle her. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] After all this comes the Opposition - particularly the parties responsible for everything that has happened in recent years - and they tell us what? "It's okay that you won everything that we had set as a national line. This agreement is not beneficial to national interests’. But if this agreement, which covers all the national'red' lines you have put in, and we have found them, which prevents further significant risks that you have never managed in the negotiations to ensure, such as the question of raising a minority issue if this agreement - you say - are nationally harmful, then the national line and your own strategy, the one you have built for so many years, was nationally harmful. Then you were detrimental to the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the refusal and vote against this agreement by the parties and the political persons who have governed the country - I am not saying for those who did not govern and have this position - was with this part of national public opinion, with that part of the national collective consciousness that remained in '92. He hadn't watched that the line of the country was another. The vote on this agreement by the parties and the political persons who have been ruling the country since the 1990s is an unprecedented self-determination and self-determination of their own political activities. In short, I will say: it is a political hypocrisy attitude with a capital "Y". But we're all judged. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would like to say another truth to go after the arguments you have raised in recent years. I think - and I think it is a truth that cannot be concealed - that your main problem, Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Gennamas, is not the agreement. Your main problem is SYRIZA. Your main problem is that this agreement is brought by me as Prime Minister, Kotzias brings it as a minister he was. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Your main problem is that you are doing what you are accusing us of, namely working on a national issue. You did what you blame us for. Of course, you do it for one fundamental reason, because this agreement is brought by those who you recognize as temporary residents of power, while you consider yourself to be permanent owners. We have only to see the hypocritical attitude taken by the New Democracy since the first moment during the negotiation, when this process was initiated. Mr Mitsotakis had initially stated that he supports the search for an agreement with a complex name that will apply erga omnes. Why? Because he obviously had the impression that we won't be able to do that. When he saw that we were able to do this, he changed his mind, changed his place and made this agreement an inalienable condition, and with a revision of the constitutional name. When he saw that we were also doing this, as we sought from the outset, he also raised the cubit and made another condition, to complete the constitutional review to the neighbour before it was ratified by the Greek Parliament. In fact, I remember that he was so sure that Mr Kumoucascus, who said "now this term of inalienable and we are not taking a step beyond this term" and the next day he was disproved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u426	We helped you negotiate properly, because you did not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u427	Mr. Kumucaco, good for you for helping us negotiate properly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u428	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u429	But in those days, you know, you sent Mrs. Spyraki to meet in secret coffee in Brussels Mr. Zaev and said to him: "Stop, don't go with them. We want to move on, but don't go with them. Things will change in Greece and we will make the deal." That's the reality. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So now, when you have seen that all our key and key negotiating positions have been implemented, you have started talking about the assignment of languages and nationalities, even when our own neighbours have clarified that the agreement recognises citizenship and their language is Slavic. In fact, when the clarification statement came, you began to say some unspeakable verbs that your problem is that the clarification statement on the seal above has not changed it and has 'Macedonia'. But how? After having to be ratified in the Greek Parliament and the change in their constitution enters into force. That's what you're telling us. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You have, of course, reached the point where to tell us that you have also discovered something else, namely that we do not give up - it says - only language and ethnicity, but we also give people. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] First of all, the word "delegation" - Mr Mitsotakis, have you considered this? - you are constantly using it without understanding exactly what you are doing. He is probably referring to a delusion of magnificence, which is obviously resulting from your turn to the nationalist side in recent years. But I don't want to get into the sphere of psychoanalysis, nor to take the role of a psychoanalyst. What I want to tell you is that you can't assign something that you don't have, for the very simple reason that we Macedonian language never had - Alexander the Great spoke the Greek language, Alexander the Great was taught the Greek language by Aristotle and not Macedonian language - but also for the simple reason that Macedonian Greeks who live in northern Greece have ethnic Greekity. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But let's go further, though. You tell us that we gave the language - despite the fact that rather your governments did this - at the UN conference on standardising the geographical names that took place in Athens in '77. While your own governments had these issues on the front, why in 1994 did you not raise any reservation or objections to the International Standardisation Organisation, which is responsible for official codification of the names, languages of the UN member states and then hand over the abbreviations of MK and MKD? And for those who think that these are very technical, I would like to repeat the following. Where's my friend, Mr. Tasoulas? Mr. Tasula, we had a dialogue on this. I'll say it the right way this time. Evangelos Averov, as Foreign Minister, in 1959 by this Stepma - and it is no accident when a Minister for Foreign Affairs said so - had said the following. And I will say this correctly, by a preamble, that he did not want to give answers to the issue of language, but to the main and major issue, which was the minority. The minority was the major issue solved by the Embassy Agreement. So what did the late Evangelos Averov say in 1959? "First, the Macedonian language is not spoken in Greek, which is spoken in Skopje and has grammar and editorial. A local idiom, which has nothing to do with the Macedonian language, is spoken in Greek Macedonia." This statement why is it revealing? Because, with one move alone, it demolishes all these unscientific, patriotous nonsenses that have been put before the public debate lately. On the one hand, Evangelos Averov, in the capacity of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, recognizes the obvious, that apart from Greek Macedonia, there is Macedonia, which is not Greek, when he says "to Greek Macedonia". Otherwise, another determination would be needed. On the other hand, it recognises the existence of a Macedonian language, when a Foreign Minister tells the Greek Parliament in 1959, long before Mr Kotzias became Minister. And I imagine that you will not be viewed as an ethnicist and a traitor of the late Averov, as you might think Mr Kotzias and those on the Left and on the SYRIZA. And it is recognised by grammar and editorial and responded clearly to all those so-called scholars and linguists trying to convince us that a language is not a language, sending to the cart of unusables and their scientific dignity, but also the right reason. So since you have challenged me on the issue of minority and tell me that this is the crucial issue, I would also like to make a historical regression here. Speaking today with truths, we'll talk about it all. With the Prespecies Agreement our neighbours definitively accept that there is no question of a so-called Macedonian minority in Greece. This issue - and not the name - was what had been the core of the Macedonian issue, I remind you, during the war with the then unified Yugoslavia, of insisting on a Macedonian minority on the Greek territory. So this amendment to the constitution of the neighbouring country, which we achieve with the Ambassadors' agreement, is the one that removes all references to the protection of a Macedonian minority or to a Macedonian people in neighbouring countries and speaks of supporting the family, as we are talking about in our own constitution. It is therefore clear, ladies and gentlemen, that without free brothers there is no amputation. That's why we're finishing off once and for all with the aluterism. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] With regard to your second claim now, the alleged assignment of Macedonian nationality, which, as I said, has been enriched recently with the argument for the transfer of Macedonian people, I think it is a debate that we have exhausted. That is to say, we have done it many times and we are speaking in English. ‘nationality’ and ‘ethnicity’ are other words. I think that we have exhausted it, of course, as far as the statement made in the financial communication from our own neighbours is concerned. But let me just make myself clear to those who are following us, to set an example. Because, as I said before, in the neighbouring country citizens have nationality, citizenship Macedonian/citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, but their ethnicity is Albanian and Slavomaedon. That's the reality. As I would say, for example, another country, Switzerland. Swiss citizens have nationality, citizenship Swiss, but they are divided into three ethnicities: they are German, they are French, they are Italian. These are their ethnic advancements. What don't you understand? I cannot understand that. But to speak in terms of law, terms of international law, I would just say this phrase to you. International law is not generally accepted attributes and generally accepted definitions of the nation or people. States recognise states. They do not recognize peoples or ethnic groups. Therefore, even if Kotzias wanted to give everything and give them ethnicity, he could not do so, because an international agreement can only recognise ethnicity. But I would now like to answer these questions essentially with some examples, because I have seen that your main argument is that all these years you have fought a great battle for nationality and language. Yes, sir. I would like to ask you a question: what have you been doing, when you were negotiating, about the reference to a Macedonian nation in the constitution of our neighbouring country? I ask my colleagues because the last time we debated a change in the neighbour's constitution, he was not with Kotzia now. It was 1992 on government of Constantine Mitsotakis, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Samaras. In fact, Mr Samaras had requested the removal of the petitions of the neighbouring country's constitution to Macedonian nation or people, and we do not know that? The answer is no. Mr Samaras, when he negotiated the "Pleet Penineiro" he tabled constitutional changes from our side, which had nothing to do with the issue of minority, that there should be no reference to a minority in their constitution to avoid claiming a minority and, of course, that the reports of expansionists be eliminated. No references - no references! - to change the constitution's verbality in relation to Macedonian people and Macedonian nation. And if you do not believe me, I would like to make a statement today - because these have not been declassified, I would like it to be in the knowledge of the heads of the parties and not all of the Members - what the negotiations on the 'Pineiro package' and what Mr Samaras has said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u430	What did Pineiro say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u431	What Mr. Samaras said. And, of course, because we heard the same thing from Mrs Gennamas - who told us that if we had given the language and ethnicity, we would have solved it, but we did not give it because we were national proud - in fact, Mrs Gennamas - for a little better reading the Ohrid Agreement signed by the United States and the European Union in 2001, at the Government of Simitis. So what does this deal say? Do you want me to read to you what this deal says? Macedonia's official language and international relations are Macedonia's language. No protest of yours then! Refers to Macedonian language, it refers to Macedonia and elsewhere it refers to Macedonian. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[At this point, the President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So great a race you had done for Macedonian language, for ethnicity and for the term Macedonians. You did not veto the European Union, nor did you raise any objections, since you were so concerned about this. You also blame us on the issue of citizenship in passports. For twenty-five years our neighbours called Skopje have been coming here to Greece, doing their baths in Halkidiki, taking their walks to Syntagma Square - and people are doing well because they are strengthening our tourism - but their passports do not write "Skopje". They write "Macedonians" as well. You twenty-five years when you were? Why did you allow this twenty-five years? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Where were you in 2008-2009, when the negotiations took place and the status of citizens of the neighbouring country was released as a Schengen country? Where have you guys been, you mobsters all these years? Which is hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u432	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u433	Finally, you say to us that it is unacceptable to restrict ourselves and imply that we may also have an aberrationist logic, because in the agreement - I have heard it, Mr Samaras has said so today - we say that we should delete the brigades on both sides of the books and we are unacceptable. Why are we unacceptable? Why don't we just say that they're all about books or rhetoric and public and private bodies. Yes, sir. On 4 September 2012, however, Mr Samaras wrote a letter to Mr Gruevski on these issues. And what did Mr. Samaras say in the letter he sent Mr. Gruevski? That checking the way in which the history is presented by the school books of the two countries - the two countries! - and their exemption from negative comments, hostile and aberrational rhetoric against our neighbours, is the subject of the discussion. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Alexis Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here, Samaras, who came here today and said to us: "No way, there's no way Samaras could have done such a thing, surely". Of course his Minister did the same...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u434	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u435	...Mr. Avramopoulos, by letter to the counterpart of Nicholas Poposki, where he spoke of the need for government services to discourage such actions that stimulate violence and hatred or hostility towards one another on both sides. Yes, sir. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I could give you dozens of examples to show you that all your arguments in recent years have been totally pretextful, all your arguments in recent years have been completely risky. Today you even told us about the products of designation of origin, the products of geographical indications protected by the European Union - as if you did not know - by the European Commission, both within the European Union and in third countries. Today you have said to us that we will not be able to freeze funds or veto the accession of the neighbouring country to the European Union if it does not comply with the agreement or if it does not fulfil the conditions. And that's a big lie. Any chapter on the accession process will be judged on the basis of whether the neighbouring country moves forward to what has been agreed. Even the fact that we should be ashamed of ourselves, because - he says - he's going to open a private institute, you didn't say state because you know state can't have... [[Noise in the Chamber]] No, no, Mr. Mitsotakis did not say so from an ideological point of view. He knows that the agreement says that the state of our neighbours cannot say "Macedonian", they will say "North Macedonia". That's why he said privately, he knew what he said. Obviously, you don't know or you're probably overlooking that for private language institutes we decide. We decide whether to give permission or not to give permission. So, what are you doing? What you're doing is trying to misinform the Greek people, create false impressions, because it's not your deal, bad lies. What it is to you - I repeat - is that the deal is brought by us. And for the truth, Mrs. Gennamas was nailed. I read her announcement in the deletion of Mr. Theocharopoulos. Why did he erase him? Otherwise, he didn't put discipline! Imagine putting discipline on him, what would he do to him. He erased him not because this great ideological difference agrees as a progressive man with this agreement, while it's infamous, is the issue of deletion, but why objectively serves the designs of SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras. To enjoy your progressiveity, to enjoy your national responsibility, to enjoy your conscience and national attitude to such a critical national theme. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But I will not avoid the temptation to say a few words about the Communist Party. I don't do it often, but you know at critical times there's no immunity for anyone. Lands are honoring the first and we're all judged for anything we do. And because the Communist Party is dealing with history - a hundred years of history - I think that today it takes a position and attitude that will mark its story. I do not want to mention the Macedonian alphabetical alphabet handed over by the Communists of Tashkent to the children of the Macedonian fighters of the Democratic Army of Greece. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I do not want to mention the seventy thousand refugees in the Greek state who were deprived of their right in 1983 to return to their home country. Nor will I refer so much to the Slavmadeonica Irene Gine, Mirka Ginova, the first woman to be executed in the Civil War, a communist. These are your rights to treat them on your own. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I shall speak politically, I shall not focus on the JRC's history. So, politically speaking, the JRC today, what's the main reason? NATO. What's the second basic reason? It's altruism. All right, NATO will accept it as a reason to disagree. Although that's where I wanted to ask a question. So let me fully accept your analysis, that the agreement is dictated by the West, by international imperialism, or I don't know what else you might imagine. Under this international treaty, given the will of our neighbours to join NATO, which is their own issue, how does the JRC think that the Greek state could or should recognise this country? How? What name? How are we gonna call these people? What do you think? After you tell us that the term "Macedonia" and only in their name is a hindrance. Or I didn't read Lenin well when I was little or you're not doing well, because the self-determination of people and movements was one of the basic features of the revolutionary conception of the communist movement. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Anyway, I don't want to stay in this. I would like to say that it is incomprehensible today that you do not understand the capital and the secondary, or that you do not understand, because you too do, for voting reasons, and why SYRIZA is bothering you. What's the distinction you make? Do you not understand that the main enemy of the working class and of the people's classes today is the impeccable thirst of Greek nationalism for revenge against the conquests of the people's movement, the conquests of democracy and these small conquests that this government has achieved? You don't get it. It's a good call to the symbols, but in the protests and syllables the day before we witnessed events of political rulership in the Arctic. And I will not just refer to the attack on the House, the lynching of people, the murderous attack on journalists. I will refer only to the slogan that I saw on a wall of Athens: "Yes to fascism", so dry and so, if you like, unintentionally and without a trace of guilt towards history. Don't you understand that? I will say one thing, that today and tomorrow all of us take responsibility, responsibility for history, responsibility for the nation, responsibility for both our values and our progressive positions and for what we have been proclaiming in this place for so many years. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And as the great Kazantzakis said: 'Communists love it.' That's what he said. I hope you're doing your self-criticism sometime too. I am closing down, ladies and gentlemen, because I have already had too much time. The Balkans have always been Europe's barrister, not by accident. The dismantling of the single Yugoslavia was the legend of a brutal period of emerging nationalism that scattered terror and death. Nationalism has been giving the tone to this region for too many years. The bilateral conflicts ended with the weapon in hand and not with agreements. And our country has not remained unaffected by these tectonic changes. But there have always been political forces and politicians and diplomats who have seen the danger of Greece entering an eternal adventure on its northern border in time. I would like to admit that one of the first politicians to see this was Constantine Mitsotakis, despite the enormous ideological differences that separate me from his resignation and, of course, despite the enormous differences with the policy that he has implemented. But it was well appreciated at the time of the collapse of Yugoslavia and the creation of the state of our neighbours. He said, then, - and I think it is important to mention it because it is very timely - that it is 'inadmissible hypocrisy in the name of national pride and national intransigence to accept that this country, that state in the dilemma called 'Macedonia', should not be allowed to remain in a complex name'. And he added: "Now we need honesty, honesty and courage, that's what our foreign policy needs, and that's what I think we're missing." Unfortunately, Mr Mitsotakis, you really lack courage and courage today. It may be missing to you, but, in the majority of the national delegation and courage and boldness to raise our consciences towards this great historical, national challenge, to end hypocrisy, to end this lack of hypocrisy, to deprive the stocks of hatred and division that nationalism has caused to both peoples. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, that with this agreement Greece takes back the most important thing, what belongs to it and is its history, its symbols, its tradition, the heritage of Ancient Greek Macedonia. But also our neighbours, northern Macedonia, from a country in which we have turned our backs and push them to go to others, become an ally, becoming an ally country, becoming a representative of Greece for cooperation, peace and security in the region and, of course - perhaps more importantly - away from the sphere of influence of third countries that seek to perpetuate instability in the Balkans, perpetuate this conflict and weaken the role of Greece in the wider region. So now, indeed, Mr Mitsotakis, it is time. At this critical hour, I would also like to address both the MPs and the Greeks who are watching us. It is time of national self-confidence and yes, of pride, of national pride. We have nothing to fear looking at the truth. It's a historic day! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The story of knowing as much as you disagree, because we're bringing this together, it won't make us fair. The history, if we take the step, will vindicate Greece, Greece which dared, Greece which fought, Greece which becomes the guarantor of stability and co-development in the Balkans, Greece that its heavy history and valuable burden prevents it from being complacent to international developments. For all these reasons the MPs will stand, the MPs will do what their conscience says, the MPs will do their good for the country, the MPs will do their national duty. They won't be terrified, you won't intimidate them. And the country with their vote will move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u436	Now Mr Kammenos, the President of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u437	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I am speaking for the last time as President of the Independent Greeks in this House, because as I will explain below, the SYRIZA leadership team with the President of Parliament is already working on the scenario of the dissolution of the Independent Greeks as a parliamentary group, as he did with Potami. This does not mean, of course, that we are going to be disgraceful does not mean that we accept parliamentary coups, that we will not resist an absolute indifference, Mr President, against one of your partners who was next to you for four years. We are proud that Greece has come out of the memos. A moment ago, the President of Parliament invited a journalist to read together Rule 15 of the Rules of Procedure and explained to him that, when there were five Members left in the parliamentary group, he should be elected, he says, in this party, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure from the same list. Now it explains why Mr. Quick becomes Minister. Mr Quik becomes Minister, Prime Minister, because when Mr Papachristopoulos resigns, he will replace him in order to leave the Group of Independent Greeks. I am very sorry, and I have to say that I did not expect it from you. I think it's clear. There are six members of the Group of the European People's Party with Mr Focas. If Mr Papachristopoulos resigns, his seat is taken by Mr. Quik, who has declared that he will change his seat with the ministerial chair you offered him, so that the MPs will stay five, and if Mr. Nicolopoulos comes as a fellow MEP, as President of the Christian Democrat Party, the Independent Greeks lose parliamentary representation. That was something that was highly planned and escaped from the President of the Parliament in collaboration with a journalist just now. It is okay, however, because if we leave in this way, at least the Greek people will understand - and those who believe that we played a game with the scout and the name of Macedonia - that we did not make a transaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u438	That is not the case in Parliament's affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u439	It shall apply with Article 15(3). Read it, Prime Minister. It says that the parliamentary group should be composed of five members elected by the same election. We, therefore, did not just set up the issue of scoping and Macedonia's name, we never negotiated it. We had it honestly and clearly in the first place. Because we believe in the words of late Christoulos - it disturbs some, I know - who said on 3 June 2006: "Macedonia will save Greece because some Greece has decided to kill itself. And it's Macedonia that keeps the garbs high. With such stories, memories, with historical memory, with no purpose, no calculations and outward commands, no dictates. That is why it would be advisable for all Greeks to come to Macedonia from time to time to watch where they are stepping. Because in every step you can press holy soil, you may press a grave, you may press a relic. It's a scattered sacrificial place. This sacrifice gives us life. This sacrifice supports us and is the antidote of globalisation, which wants to level all of this, not to talk about struggles, not talking about wars, not talking about sacrifices." So we do not have to discuss an international issue or an internal issue here today. Here we are discussing what has been described by the late Christoulos, the satisfaction of the global plans. Three hours ago - it is no accident - the president of the organisations in favour of globalisation, along with the Clinton Foundation, George Soros, took a picture with Mr Zaev. They were photographed together in Switzerland and below as a comment, they have the congratulations of Mr. George Soros to Mr. Zaev for the Prespecies Agreement and, in essence, the principle of implementing Greece's dismantling plan. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Independents Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the Minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This is precisely our position from the very beginning and here in the Greek Parliament today. Who's working for Soros, we'll see. Justice and some honest judges will open up some accounts and companies for those who have moved this case very soon. And if the prosecutors don't do it, we'll do it. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole truth we have lived in recent years has been reflected here today. Because here we did not have the controversy of Officer Controversy with the government. We had the symphony. I read from today's Minutes. Dora Bakoyannis: "We in no way wanted to give ethnicity and language to the Macedonians." And the Prime Minister a moment ago used the amazing term "Greek Macedonians". There is a match between this New Democracy group, which currently has its leadership, with Mr Kotzias and those who believe in globalisation, the abolition of nations - states, which have been struggling for years for the Tito and Hitler's opinion, and the creation of the Aegean Macedonia. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is no coincidence that this Step by Mrs Bakoyannis said to Mr Kotzias: 'I will witness the Kammenos court'. The only ones who are against this system are the Independent Greeks and, of course, some colleagues from the Central Association and the independent MPs. Everyone else has been lured from the leadership systems that the parties control. I heard Antonis Samara talking from this Step. He is a politician with whom I have crucified more than anyone else, who I consider responsible for the dissolution of the New Democracy, when it turned it into a defender of PASOK, the old PASOK, the PASOK that we as a New Democracy were chasing it, who put in executives from the LAOS who took over the greatest, if you like, part of its power, which dissolved the banks with Venizelos, the funds. Antonis Samaras up here led a group of MPs and said exactly the opposite of what the leadership of the New Democracy said. He said what we believe, "Macedonia is one and it is Greek", what Constantine Karamanlis said with tears at Thessaloniki airport, at Macedonia airport before leaving, what all the governments then bypassed, with Dora Bakoyannis, and then, the co-operation government, Mr Kotzias. A few more hours before dawn and noon, and Macedonia will no longer only be Greek. The Macedonians will live to see and hear another country boast about that name, for a name that the ancestors sacrificed their lives. Constantine Karamanlis wrote about Macedonia twenty-seven years ago: "Macedonia is one and Greek". Today everyone laughs at each other, the Slavs, the Albanians, Kotzias, the hundreds of five colleagues of SYRIZA, the New Democracy, which, as Mr Theodorakis said, was confessed to him that "happily sign, sign and vote to end". And of course, all six "Nighters" will laugh at them. Six "Nightliers" only SYRIZA needs to sell out the name and has found them with the above. Our story had a Nightmare. Today another six are added, perhaps more. And the Nights will be seen today and tomorrow their names, what will be inherited by their offspring. They will go through the black page of history and none of us will forget them and especially the Greeks will mention the last treason when they talk about this night of grief and anger. Six "Nightwalkers" will sell history and culture for centuries and an eternal name that wrote history with blood Greek. Because culture isn't about cutting bits of your country's culture and selling it. It's the protection of culture as an eye daughter. Appropriate Nike, the Elginia, remind you of something, friend Alexis? These have been taken by strangers, you and the other Greek MPs with their consciences. And some people's conscience is too flexible. Others said publicly four months ago, others say today. You hand over the parts of the soul of our culture, the name of Macedonia. Dear friends, they will have the name and we will have the name, as Kostas Zouraris said, the nickname. That's where you'd get us. And you know much better than anyone that the North has already been drawn up and the albotisms will reap. Haelo's amusements have been opened. We will all be judged, but more than anyone will be judged by the six 'Nights'. We are therefore called upon to ratify an agreement which, according to the government and its partners, solves the problem with Skopje. However, this agreement, ladies and gentlemen, is to shift the problem within our country. The baptized "Macedonians" will now have every legal right to establish in Thessaloniki, Edessa, Florina, Amyntheos, and in all the cities and villages of our country, associations of cultural and educational institutions, with inscriptions of Macedonians. Already yesterday we had the first announcement from Paul Voskopoulou: "We are members of the ethnic Macedonian minority in northern Greece." It's the beginning of degradation. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Independents Mr Panos Kammenos presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We will have requests for property to be recovered from private and state entities. The most painful thing, however, is that the possible rejection of any of these requests will lead us to unavoidable condemnation by the International Court of Justice, which will be based on the Ambassadors' Response. However, it also gives the image of a weak country. Because as Thucydides said and repeated: "When a weak man negotiates with a strong one, he gets what the strong one offers him. Otherwise, as long as it negotiates, it will take less." And that is exactly what happened with the Prespecies Agreement. We got the least. This will also affect the relationship with Turkey, not positive but negative. When we see in the Natali country now, "North Macedonia", Turkish air bases with aircraft from the Turkish Air Force, then we understand what an Ambassadors' agreement means. Beyond others, even though their accession to the European Union with their multiple economic and political benefits and membership of NATO was at our disposal, we did not take advantage of them. You have indeed misled the Greek Parliament, and while you were obliged to bring the NATO agreement here and to go by 180 votes - 'comparable' - the agreement says - you did not do so. And you didn't, because you know you don't have 180. You have also not, however, done so, because you have not yet convinced your parliamentary group that the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia should enter NATO. Ladies and gentlemen, those who vote for this convention also create a minority problem in the country, not with the will of foreigners, but with your own will and national responsibility. You're turning Macedonians into a Skopje Slav minority. You create a crack in the national collectiveity of the Greek society. You separate the Greeks from the north and south. You follow, you and your companions, a policy of destruction and division of the Greek people. You ignore the will of the overwhelming majority not only of the Greek people but also of the nation of the Greeks who live around the globe. Your Slavic friends from Skopje, Zaev, Dimitrov are insulting you with their statements every day. They are violating the agreement before it is ratified by the Greek state, the Greek Parliament. Their national anthem, which will remain in force, sings about Macedonia, not "North Macedonia". You keep not only the silence of the grave, but you continue your political and national catastrophic, gratifying for finally satisfying your ideoleptic vision to implement the decisions of the Soviet and Titoian expansion, granting Macedonia to the Slavs. The President of the Parliament, from the main architects of this agreement and the methodology for the dismantling of the parties of Parliament, arrived here at the Step that the motto "Macedonia is a Greek" is a hint, insulting Constantine Karamanlis, insulting the late Christodoulou, insulting 80% of the Greek people, insulting Macedonia itself. Mr Voutsi, when we say that Macedonia is a Greek, we are talking about culture, the history of Macedonia, the Greek nation. We are not talking about the lands of Macedonia to which you are referring and which do not produce culture, but of wheat, tomatoes, cucumbers, peaches and other agricultural products. Culture doesn't produce the field. People are producing culture. And you have the illusion that by tampering with your listeners with an old cutting, worn left propaganda on internationalism, reconciliation of peoples, a fall of borders, miserable xenophobic homeland, you are conducting a progressive policy. You don't live in Greece but in a curtain country? Of course, when you see the natonic nuclear base, then I see Mr Papadopoulos what he will say to his constituents, who would be concerned if there were any grounds to believe in Larissa or in Trikala. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are saying that you are seeking, with this pact, the peaceful coexistence and friendship of the two peoples, which existed anyway. But how can it survive when it is based on the counterfeiting of the history and culture of our country? You are conducting and taking advantage of the support of apostate MPs, both of whom will be written on the black pages of history. I am very sorry that a national reconciliation government, a government that managed to unite two different places, from a national reconciliation government, became a government of apostates. I'm very sorry, because together we took care to hit corruption, corruption not only laughs, but it also makes announcements, speeches, provoking you. Of course, when in a case of three tons of heroin has been prosecuted and in order to appoint the interrogator a year, it is only natural that these intertwiners who threatened, laugh at you and us. When the prosecutors resign from Vienna and when your ladies advisers tell the judges "Leave this for the following", then this offends you and us. But more than that, it offends democracy and the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u440	I'm sorry. Counsel is involved in justice, Mr. President? Mr President, what did it sound like here? The Prime Minister's advisers take the judges and tell them not to prosecute? What did President Annell say now? Didn't you hear what he said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u441	No, because we had a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u442	The Prime Minister's advisers take the judges and tell them who they're going to prosecute. Did you hear what he said? Mr. Cammene, have you heard when you were at the Maximus Mansion, such a thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u443	On public TV...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u444	What do you think, sir? This is where our democracy is being destroyed!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u445	Mr Tasoulas has been asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Tasoula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u446	Mr President, I want the floor for a minute and I apologise. The Prime Minister referred to my name, but mainly to the controversial speech - and again I mention it - of Evangelos Averrov in June 1959. And he said, right this time, the Prime Minister - saying 'I will now say it correctly' - that the appeal of that meeting and that of the speech and that of that time - I say, because there are other times - was not the language, but the renunciation of the existence of a Macedonian minority in Greece. And that was the point of speech. However, the Prime Minister did not only stand up to the historical truth, but reiterated that Averoff then invented the wording, allegedly recognizing the existence of a Macedonian language. In another paragraph of Averov's speech that day, in response to the MPs of the Liberals Allaman and Kothari, he says in fact the word "Macedonian language", but refers to it as an expression in the titular constitution, which at that time recognised six languages in Yugoslavia, one of which, according to the constitution at the time, was called "Macedonian language". So it wasn't his wording, but it pumped that expression out of the titanic constitution. That's what I'm saying to make the picture complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u447	Thank you. The President of the JRC Parliamentary Group, Mr Koutsoubas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u448	Ladies and gentlemen, the agreement by the SYRIZA Government to vote in this House is a shameful agreement, an agreement on the order of the imperialist interests of the Americans and NATO, which, of course, also has the acceptance of the ruling order in Greece that expects benefits. And that is the main, crucial issue for both peoples, both Greece and the neighbouring country, FYROM. And that's a systematic attempt to hide from all the parties, except in here. Because this is also the main problem of this obscure agreement, which opens up the anchor of Haul for divides and reigns, for a change of borders tomorrow in the Balkans, for the cultivation of hatred among the peoples. Because that is ultimately what defines the rest, the ambiguity, the unacceptable compromises, the sound of the touches, that is, all the seeds of the pervertilism that remain in this agreement. That is the very truth, Mr Tsipras, to borrow the slogan from your well-known little Prespecies Agreement, and that truth you have sought from the first moment to hide it not only from you, but from the rest of us here, with the blessings of Piatt. The truth is that the agreement you signed with Zafe is an agreement that was reached with the inviting intervention of the United States of America, NATO, the European Union. He's got his own seal. It was signed on the basis of the deadlines and timetables set by these agencies, not to mention the pressures exerted by the same 'brows', to remind you again how you called the Americans, the Europeans by the beginning of 2015. Let them leave what your fellow Member, Kammenos, knows until recently, that the Americans and NATO supposedly did not press for this agreement, as he said, but the proposal was Kotzia and that only the European Union and Germany were pushing to sign with Mr Zaev. With something like that, of course, stones still laugh. The Embassy Agreement was supported by the United States and the Trump Government, in whose person Mr. Tsipras "washed" the American imperialism, the same Trump setting up walls and shooting immigrants from Mexico, supported by Ku Klux Klan. Even George Bush, the Middle East butcher, was recruited. The Embassy Agreement imposed NATO, this murderous body that smashed the nationalist divisions in the region, which blooded the Balkans two and three times, imposed a border change. In fact, NATO Secretary-General was the first to congratulate Zaev on the outcome of the Skopje Parliament, at the same time as his official and informal officials, as well as various agents, were mocking all the Balkans. The European Union and its leaders, with Merkel, who came to Greece to congratulate you and to support you personally, Mr Tsipras, because you have gone through a dirty but difficult mission. And of course, Makron, Juncker, Kurts, this extreme right-wing Chancellor of Austria, who even sent a message about the positive prospects of the Prespecies Agreement. Even the Erdogan government welcomed the Ambassadors' agreement and FYROM's NATO membership. It is no coincidence that the Albanian party at FYROM, who voted in favour of the Prespecies Agreement, has the full support of Ankara and it is no coincidence that the next day of the mission of the financial communication of Skopje to Greece, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia Dimitrov met with Turkey's Foreign Minister Tsavousoglou. The agreement you signed, Mr Tsipras, is natonic and calls it the beginning of its text. As from Article 2, the guarantees from Greece that it will support the integration of FYROM into the two Imperialist organisations - NATO and the European Union - are recorded as well as the timetables for the accession process. Here it is recorded in every detail and the rest of the timetable for NATO finally joining. In fact, neither you, the gentlemen of the government, nor the gentlemen of the New Democracy and other parties who are supposed to disagree and say that you will vote against it, and that is what you will do, because none of you disputes the objective of Euro-Atlantic integration in the Balkans, which is mainly serving this agreement. Does the New Democracy question US planning, NATO in the Balkans? Of course not. Does KINAL, the other parties, the MPs who easily move from one party to another? None of you. New Democracy can, with its standpoint, fish in the blurred waters of reactionary nationalism, even cover aspects of the action of the Golden Dawn. But what its own government would not have given to be the preferred partner in the region, as American Ambassador Piat says. And you, SYRIZA gentlemen, are getting to say that this agreement is just a bilateral agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, that entry into NATO is a choice for the people of the neighbouring country. Where are you selling these? Where do you say that? Because you've certainly read the agreement and, of course, Article 2, you're just saying another great lie to hide the substance. And to have the good question: Where does it appear that the people of the neighbouring country want their country to enter NATO? Did you forget that even in the referendum held by the question 'You are in favour of joining NATO and the European Union by accepting the agreement?' The abstention rate was 70%. Of course, your allies, the imperialists, showed where the will of the people has been written. After having resorted to pressure, ultimatum, blackmail, interventions, they also ignored the result of the referendum, which they themselves set up, as they are accustomed to doing everywhere and always. The inclusion, gentlemen, of SYRIZA, of various associations of killers of the visions and the will of the peoples in all countries is never a real choice for the peoples, but it is the ruling class, the bourgeoisie of each country, to serve its own selfish economic and political interests. But even if we accept what you are saying, how does your own government, which even calls yourself a left-wing, progressive, push the neighboring people into this option, into the imperialist chains, explains how? Because that is what you and, of course, the Americans and the Europeans, the rest of us, have done. In fact, a SYRIZA MEP arrived in here telling us that the agreement is anti-imperialist, it causes a breach - it says - in imperialism. So much for the imperialists! What can we say? Logic raises hands, for from science and history you have of course taken a definitive divorce. Some and some - I don't remember their names now - even EAM has invoked, telling us that your Left takes the follow-up from that time and that's why you join the Prespecies Agreement in this great course that you have taken. A little embarrassment, we'd tell you. They tremble the bones of thousands of fighters and fighters. The NAM wrote heroic pages, because his blood donor, the JRC, was not subjected to the negative association of forces, he did not follow the sirens of the necessary adjustment at the time, who then called on the people to sit on his eggs, because, as the Hitlerians, the Germans, came to stay for a long time in Greece, that he is an invincible and powerful opponent. Of course, most of those who said that, without even understanding it, some of them even became donors, traitors, associates, partners in the triple occupation, the German, Italian and Bulgarian. And today you dare put in your mouth the Democratic Army, the executed heroic of the KKE, Mirka Ginova, Irene Gina, who executed the murder weapon that they had on the "Made in USA", i.e. the Americans, the ones you worship in here today. It's disgraceful! You're American and NATO cheeks! But that's who you are, ready for the dirty work. It is the same logic that now subtracts subjection to negative - it says - a correlation of forces, subjection to imperialist centers, because there are no conditions. So say, clearly, that by serving strategic choices and the ruling order of Greece, which is interested in its business with the neighbouring country and not only, you are making another shameful compromise that can cost both people of course but also, furthermore, put aside the heroic history of the Greek people, our honored heroes dead. Because you know well - and everyone who is now listening to us and not just in this Chamber, everyone who feels left-wing, progressive in this place - that the flag of EAM, ELAS, the Democratic Army will never stand, nor stood by the flag of NATO, the United States of America, the European Union. And you, of course, have long made your choice. Your Government, Mr Tsipras, has developed into the best signifier of NATO and the European Union's plans in the region, of course, by seeking, in order to say this, the unimportant for shipowners, industrialists, major importers, large exporters and others. That is exactly what you mean by your leading role in the Balkans. In fact, the recent publication of the comprehensive report by the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the United States of America, in addition to the fact that it reminds us of old dark times, fully confirms the role you have taken in promoting these US planning. The report expressly and cynically acknowledges "that the Prespecies Agreement has the Euro-Atlantic seal", that "Greece is a committed partner in the promotion of US interests both inside and outside Greece, that the Greek Government supports the deepening of military cooperation, offering additional locations outside the Souda Bay, in order to support US military operations in the region". It goes without saying that 'they will be recruited - that is exactly what they say - NGOs and the media to convince the Greek people of the necessity of this policy'. So progressive is your policy! These creepy pursuits, in fact, of American policy are neither questioned by the Government nor naturally by the New Democracy. Our people must know that at the moment in the Balkans there is a great war, economic war, for markets, for raw materials, for pipelines, which has reached the point of military preparations, with unforeseen consequences for all the peoples. NATO, the United States of America and the European Union are trying to block, prevent the plans and influence of Russia and China. Indeed, on China's plans in the Balkans, Mrs Merkel also spoke on her recent visit, so they are rushing to complete the integration of the Western Balkans into the Euro-Atlantic structures. Russia has already had significant results in Serbia. More generally, the Balkans are a privileged market but also a field of tough dialogue for the crossing of Russian gas and others in the European Union. And for China the Balkans are a channel for the'silk road' to Europe, using the port of Piraeus and the development of railway networks in Serbia. Your Government, with the agreement of course of the rest of us, puts our people at great risk for the sake of parts of the domestic big capital from the robbery and exploitation of other peoples to ensure a greater share and profits. The dangers to our people and to the people of the Balkans are constantly growing, especially now that there is a great deal of mobility in the issue of border change in the Balkan region, which is already moving on with the change in the territory of Serbia and Kosovo. But, even in the name of ensuring peace, security within the framework of NATO and the European Union, it will do nothing but do nothing more to squash the future of the peoples of the Balkans once again, because NATO, the European Union, the United States as a whole, capitalist states depending on their strength, never and nowhere have they given up on the "divorce and rule". The alleged golden criminals and some, also, MPs of the New Democracy, other parties, who appear to be useful for use by SYRIZA, have found the opportunity for an extreme uncovered anti-communism, even mentioning cuts, off-site and then conditions, of the Communist International in the 1920s. They also referred to the Macedonian determination of FYROM in the framework of the single Yugoslav state which, at that time, did not leave any room for evacuation on Greek Macedonia. When did he open this channel? When was it becoming insecurity for the people and involved in new suffering, since the people of the Balkans had already lived in peace for forty years after World War II? We all know that it has become insecurity with NATO and the European Union military intervention, which has been part of the single Yugoslavia since 1990 to 1999. And today, drunkenly promoted by various circles, the plan of "Greek Albania", with the first phase of changing borders between Kosovo and Serbia, and then the economic and diplomatic integration of Kosovo in Albania, which may open up other wounds in our neighborhood. Such wounds open up and the naional agreement your Government will be voting on today, along with some of your willing allies on this lashverism watched by the Greek people these days. The poem you and New Democracy say every three minutes, that NATO and the European Union are supposed to be a factor of stability and peace in the region, keep it to the American Embassy's receptions in the various Natali living rooms, because this is the Balkans, it's not a laugh. The peoples of the Balkans have paid with blood, with outsourcing, misery, the barbarity of these interventions, in which the Greek capitalist state also actively participated. NATO and the European Union have taken the lead in the dismantling of Yugoslavia, in the re-establishment of borders, in the formation of protectors' states and in terms of security and peace, in the face of NATO's major aggressive military exercises, with tens of thousands of troops from all its member states, including Greece, which are constantly taking place. There is a card and a feather of what you say, from the NATO decisions themselves, which the government has written together, but a bracelet with the former Foreign and Defence Ministers, who are today among them in the knives. In fact, for peace and stability, did you sign the NATO target for the four triangulars: thirty motorised battalions, thirty degrees, thirty battleships, ready to take action within 30 days? For peace and stability, did you sign NATO's doctrine of the first nuclear blow? Do you vote on the decisions to intensify the militarisation of the European Union next to NATO? We clearly say and warn that the strengthening of NATO and of the European Union in the region, not only is it not a factor of stability and peace, but is only an acceleration of military preparation, with greater involvement in designs that smell barbecue, threat to all the peoples of the region and to the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, precisely because the agreement has the seal of NATO and the United States, that is why the basic seeds of alutism remain in this agreement. You know very well that references to Macedonian people, Macedonian citizenship and language leave room for future doubts and fuel nationalism to our neighbour and country. These conditions in FYROM are exploited by the Zaev government to certify the recognition of Macedonian identity and language. In Greece, they are mainly exploited by nationalist forces to show their own unscrupulous slogans. Uniform Macedonian nation, historically shaped, never existed in the Balkans nor any single Macedonian language of course. The mere fact that the term "Macedonna" continues to exist for the purpose of identifying the inhabitants of this country, even with the cloak of citizenship, gives rise to many questions, many concerns about how this can be exploited in the future. So is references to Macedonian language. The fact is that the use of these terms can in future also be used for claims and doubts against neighbouring states. Thus, on the one hand, we can raise issues of searching homogeneous Macedonians in neighbouring states, while on the other, for example in Greece, we can raise nationalistic al-German krone as today unequal "Macedonia is one and Greek", implying some thermo-heads that there is an issue and a claim of land than they used to be as a wider geographical region of Macedonia. The project has been seen many times in the past by the people of the Balkans, who have become victims in the millstones of the competition of urban classes and imperialist designs by "dividing and reigning", which is based on subjugation of nationalism and mutilation by exploiting existing or non-minor issues. Since 1992, when the issue of the name of the neighbouring state has been raised, following the dissolution and division of the former Yugoslavia, the JRC has been placed on this issue by positions of principle aimed at promoting the friendship, solidarity and cooperation of the peoples against the plans of the imperialist centres for border change in the region. He supported his positions on the undeniable fact that Macedonia is a broad geographical area and after the end of the Second Balkan War and the signing of the 1913 Treaty of Bucharest Greece got from these territories in 51.57%, Serbia in 38.3%, Bulgaria about 10%, Albania 0.5%. It was a great geographical region historically, which is not exclusively part of Greece and has now shared with the existing borders between Balkan states. In this wider region of Macedonia they spoke Greek, Albanian, Slavic dialect, Hebrew, Armenian, Turkish and other elements, and nothing can substantiate that within this mosaic there was or is there a separate structured single Macedonian language. Of course, part of the inhabitants who lived in this part of the region of geographical Macedonia spoke of a Slavic dialect, which they continue to speak today, of course, which was usually identified - and so is - as 'Slavomacedon'. And that's not what we're saying now. We've always said that. This language was learned by the children and spoken by the children in Tashkent, unspeakably said by the Prime Minister, and where there were children living elsewhere who spoke the Slavamachens or were Slavumacedonians. So, as far as what you were saying before, Mr. Tsipras - if you are listening now, why aren't you in the Hall - carbons the treasure! But this is something completely different from the existence and the claim for Macedonian language. The same applies to the position on Macedonian nation. This position does not really fit, because it does not fulfil in its unity the criteria that stress that the nation as a historically shaped stable community of people has appeared on the basis of the community of soil, economic life, language and psycho-composition manifested in the community of culture. The dominant nation in FYROM was formed after World War II on the basis of these terms, but with the entity created under the single Yugoslavia, while there are many data, many figures, that up to a period of definition, the Slavic origin was used. And leave Lenin alone, Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA gentlemen. Because a lot of Lenin and Marx fell these days, as you usually do, "banging" here in the House building. On self-determination from imperialist centers aimed at socialist revolution, Lenin spoke and wrote, and not on self-determination, as you say, within the imperialist centers, within the US and NATO. We told you in private at our meetings. We also told you from the Step of the House last summer that we had a debate on the motion of censure at the time of the New Democracy on the Prespecies. We will repeat the exact same words that have been adopted today as positions and wider forces within the Greek people. We have told you since the first time we have taken the text of the agreement that it has the sperm of alutism, not the name in which you are all completely wrongly focusing on it, thus leading to constant compromises and disorienting the people. The name may have a geographical definition of erga omnes, but you do so largely by accepting and safeguarding the concepts of the "Macedonian people", the "Macedonian citizen", the "Macedonian language". Since last summer we have asked you from this Stepma: having been identified, as you say, strictly geographically the name 'North Macedonia', what is the reason why this country's national should not be named in this way and in its official documents, i.e. as a citizen of the state of Northern Macedonia, so 'North Macedonia' and the language of that state 'North-Macedonian'? Or why didn't you do the self-evident thing, as you say, after you say that Skopje accepted it, but elsewhere, in another article in the agreement, that their language is Slavic or, they say, it belongs to the category of southern Slavic languages? We ask you again: why is it not specified in the agreement, for example, as the 'Slavonies'? Why is the language not called the Slav-Macedonian? And because some of you say that some also speak Albanian there, so that unites them, etc., we also reply to you then, let us add that it is spoken in their country and Albanian, since they are 25% Albanians. Some of these formalities would not be left alive and the sperm of alutism would be used in the future by anyone. You're saying it didn't happen, because that's how mutual compromises are made. And that's how it is, it remains this way. Agreement and compromises for what purpose? And you respond with your words and actions, of course, clearly. Agreement and compromises on the naval objective, for Macedonia to enter NATO with Greece's active role in this. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the rest of the outdated government of SYRIZA, the government majority, do not stop here, however. Your embarrassment and turbulence are more than obvious. You systematically paraphrase the positions of the JRC, with the well-known opportunistic, technically persecuting tactics of doing what you do not understand when you do not make conscious lies. Since 1992 the JRC has had a clear and crystal clear position. It was put on the issue of positions of principle, with the aim of promoting people's friendship and solidarity, against the plans of imperialists and changing borders in the region. And let's leave what the various "Gojamanides" of SYRIZA know, supposedly the KKE changed its position. Because, Mr Tsipras and gentlemen of the government, there are no 'Gojamans', of course, who are only threatening MPs and who are convicted. There are also the 'Gojamanides', the 'problems', i.e., the word 'problems', the word 'problems', the Internet trolls, the various columns and the tweets. You read them back to us today, not the MPs, but the Prime Minister himself, Mr Tsipras, half an hour ago. Copy with your troll and some articles and tweets of well-known shipwrecks of class struggle, most impregnable political vultures, surrounded by you in recent years. Of course, we understand you. A new generation of leaders wants in Greece the State Department, writes in his report, friendly to the United States, and you want to personally, Mr. Tsipras, your exams, don't let others catch you up. Obviously, they have informed you of this report - you have it in mind - and what they require of you and your colleagues. There are several internet "Gebelisk"s, especially in the last few days, who have been organizing provocative and false slanders, that allegedly the JRC, for example, participates in nationalist rallys. Are you condemning them? Are you specifically condemning the Director of your Press Office, Mr. Tsipras, who, on the one hand, spread these dirt on the JRC? His name's Hector. Let me remind you, then. You're not that young, of course, at age, Mr. Tsipras, you remember them too. If some have participated in nationalist rallys, these were your party, the Coalition, the later SYRIZA, when in '92, '93, all its members, almost all its members, participated together with all the well-known and current gatherings at the various nationalist rallys, even criticizing the JRC for hostiles, saying, positions. You will remember the known "all but Lacekimones". Aleka Papariga, who as Secretary General of the Party's Central Committee at that time took part in the meetings of political leaders, had refused to sign a joint communiqué, noting the objections of the JRC to limit the issue to the naming issue. He had stated attributes: "If the name is removed or there is no variant of it, the problems for Greece, but also for the people of the Balkans, will exist, they will become more and more intense as foreign forces continue to intervene in the Balkans, leading countries of the EEC", it is the current European Union for those who do not remember, "and the United States of America, if the policy of “divorces and reigns” continues, since there are real and non-existent minorities being used as a means of intervention and incitement of civil war, through which the major powers are allowed to fragment the Balkans." This is the main starting point, which we would like to emphasise once again at today's meeting, and also publicly to the Greek people. I give it to you for the Minutes, to give it to both SYRIZA MPs and the rulers, who say otherwise in here. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] In 2006, I myself, as a member of the Central Committee of the Central Committee of the JRC, said: "The game with history to serve modern political projects has now acquired a general and dangerous character. The solution for the peoples of Greece, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, throughout the region, lies only in friendship, cooperation, solidarity, is far from its imperialist policy “divides and reigns”, far away from the Euro-Atlantic structures.” I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] In February 2008, Aleka Papariga, together again with me at the time, met with Dora Bakoyannis, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the New Democracy, who informed us about the issue of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. There Aleka Papariga said: "We once again told Mrs Bakoyannis that we remained firm in the position we had set out in 1992 for the conditions that should meet the name of the neighbouring country. Today, perhaps, we are threatened with a new fire for the creation of American protectors in the Balkans. One of these is Kosovo, which is independent, but also the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. And what concerns us, above all and regardless of what the name will be, is the fact that the peoples of the Balkans have become a kick in the rival which is taking place in the region of the leading powers of the European Union, the United States and Russia, which has recently entered the energy sector. And in this cage is involved Greece, which, due to its commitments, also has the fewer tools to deal with any complex problems." I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. I applaud you for the Minutes, too, a statement from the Press Office of the Central Committee of the JRC, also in 2008, shortly before the NATO Summit. "The Greek people," he said, "It must not be disoriented. He must fight to veto NATO, the United States and the European Union.’ I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. I also attach to you a decision by the Central Committee on International Development 2011, which reads: “The developments in the region are sealing the enlargement of the European Union and NATO in the Balkans. The strategic integration of the countries of the Western Balkans into the European Union and NATO, their more direct involvement in imperialist plans, generally means negative developments for the peoples of the region. At the same time and while the Greek governments declare that they are discussing only the name of the neighbouring country, in reality FYROM's bourgeois class raises every issue of the recognition of Macedonian identity and language. The JRC, unlike all of you who are fighting for the name of the neighbouring country, raised the need to block US, NATO, European Union plans and to remove the tracking patterns involved in the recognition of Macedonian identity and language.’. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] He's doing the same now. So who else would say before and now? The JRC or you? But you say these, gentlemen of SYRIZA, because you want to hide your tracks, you want to hide that your policy serves the most dangerous plans and you slander and twist the positions of the JRC, because it is very clearly revealing your role. Whatever we say, however, it's a little bit. Your American friends tell you when they call you "Geopolitical hinges" and that they need you only or mainly for hinges. Be careful, though, because hinges sooner or later rustle and, when they rust, throw them in the trash. That's where you'll end up. Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to do with nationalism and altruism with genuine folk patriotism. No relationship exists between the world's civilization of big capital and its governments with the internationalism and friendship of the peoples. For all these reasons, therefore, we are voting against this agreement. We say 'no' to the Tsipras - Zaev agreement, and we are mainly addressing the Greek people. Now is the time to strengthen its opposition to various imperialist plans in NATO, the European Union, to fight for the removal of the US bases in Greece, for the release of the country from these agencies, so that other peoples don't enter this prison. To take their place in the struggle with the JRC, in order to strengthen solidarity, friendship, common struggle of the peoples, to follow their own path, under their own flags, to actually find the people themselves in power, to take the fate in their hands. First of all, our own people, the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u449	Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u450	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting was very hypocrisy, it was unwilling for the Members' conscience to function and they all came here to say their poems. Literally, the indictment of poems took place in this Chamber. You may not have understood it, but from tomorrow Greece has been in national mourning. The only people who enjoy it are Mr. Tsipras's company. They're happy. They benefit, the deal is beneficial, and the only one being redeemed is Mitsotakis, who prayed to do the dirty work, because, alas, if the bomb came into his hands! I thought Tsipras was smarter and would call an election to take the bomb to New Democracy. But it turns out Mr. Tsipras isn't smart. When it's all over, Mr. Tsipras, you will be the ones against the history that you have shared against the country. That's right, that's what's left of it. And you, honourable Members, who will vote tomorrow on what Mr Tsipras will ask you to do, may now pretend that you will do so after great joy and you are sure of the usefulness of what you are doing, but within your soul you have the fear of tomorrow, what the historian will say, what the people will say and, above all, what will happen if in the state of Skopje there are tougher people who step on the weaknesses of this agreement to ask for Macedonia of the Aegean and Thessaloniki. So there was a very big gift to Mr. Mitsotakis. He's saved, there's his saying, his conversation, that's finished, if it's done, if it's voted, he doesn't change anything, the state keeps going. So Mr. Mitsotakis ensured for Tsipras 'the treaty you sign, don't worry, we'll observe it'. A treaty, in order to observe, honourable Members, must first inspire the Greek people. Nothing can go through with violence. The Greek people outside eat chemically from this government. It took chemicals to make today's debate. That's what history will write, that on the day the House met, they were throwing chemicals out. In these circumstances this debate is taking place. Mr Kammenos presented a little - very today that Mr Tsipras betrayed him. He told him it would go a little later. Well, I three - four times saw Tsipras and I realized that he was determined to alleviate against Macedonia and Kammenos, who was with him every day, did not understand it? Did you hear what I'm saying? Three-four times I have seen Tsipras and the last time I return to my wife, and I say to her: "By June these people here will have made an agreement with the Skopje." And the Kammenos, who was all day together, in this sincere relationship to combat interlocutory, didn't he realize anything? I'm not saying anything else because they might have betrayed him. But what did they tell him? That it's going March. So, if Marty were to be reduced, would it change something? But do you know why it happened January? Because Tsipra was taken by the Americans, they got him, they took him, right now, this week! And what Tsipras did today, two days to make it two and a half by the vote, do you know why he did it? Because today, outside, it was not easy for the MPs to come out. And he hopes that some outsiders have no money to pay for the hotels and they'll be forced to leave. Did you hear them, gentlemen? This vote tomorrow was supposed to have taken place because Members had to speak, as the President of Parliament said. That's not the excuse. It was the fear that today's night was too long. A great crime had been committed against Greece and the MPs would not have had a face to come out of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u451	Mr President, everyone has agreed on this, so we can go by tomorrow. And Mr. Georgiadis agreed. Everyone agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u452	What is the proposal, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u453	What can I tell you now? What are you saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u454	Mr. Georgiadis agreed. If he disagreed, would he change something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u455	We'd talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u456	Come on, Mr. Baroness! You've been a journalist for so long and I've had an appreciation, don't be looking for cheap excuses.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u457	Is this assessment now over, Mr President, by an intervention of my own?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u458	Today the newspaper "TO PONTIKI" said that I have given all my change to Macedonia's theme and I bet there for the entry of the Centro Association into the Parliament again. He must know that I was going to Thessaloniki for thirty-five years every Wednesday with a ride by himself to make a two-hour show on a small Thessaloniki channel, the "COSMO TV". I never bet on a vote. I have always opposed the appointments, against the rosés, and I was told by everyone: "With this tactic, who are you expecting to vote for us?" Macedonia does not support it for the votes. I support her because someone needs to yell for her sanctuaries and oaths. This Chamber cannot give it all and Macedonia will remain without defence. Some videos appeared that I was supposed to be in favour of giving "Macedonia". I ask the people of Thessaloniki who were going forty years and going every Wednesday, who listened to me on countless, thousands of shows: Have I ever been in favor of being given Macedonia? Oh, no. Just some extreme right-wing co-workers with Tsipra circulate a video, which you hear what it was. It was my answer in 2010 to what I predict for Macedonia. At that time, when large parties were PASOK and New Democracy and both had the complex name, I was very pessimistic and said that this is where the thing goes to a holocaust. That's what I said. And they move on some shows, fighting to convince me that I used to have other opinions. These dirty things will raise Vassilis Leventis's power in Macedonia, because sloppy ways do not create pimps in Thessaloniki. I was the one who was forty years up and receiving 0.5%, 1%, 1.5%, and I knew it, because there was a two-particle damn thing. When did I get into the House? When the Greek people took the bipartite form of this "finished". Then I entered the House. Thessaloniki was late to vote Vassili Leventis. But you should know: Thessaloniki does not betray what it loves, so some who wish to become pimps in Thessaloniki say: "The city of Thessaloniki does not want pimps. He wants servants, wants people who believe her, who love her." What did I say? "In the cafes of Thessaloniki they don't go into conversation." I met fifteen, seventeen, twenty-six with great concern. The young people of Thessaloniki are of a high level of youth which is concerned with the problems of the country. There's a National Representation of three hundred people. How close is it to society? Tell me. How much is that? What Tsipras wants to vote on if there was a referendum, how long would he get? Would it take 15 percent? So what's this room doing? He ignores the people. The people don't know, the people are stupid. The wise are SYRIZA Members. These are the wise who know that the treaty is beneficial. The people are an idiot. When a parliament acts contrary to the will of society, this House is better to immediately end its life in order to get a more serious one. That's my feeling. It is essential for a democratic society to be in harmony with the will of society. This House wants to say that all the people are ignorant, they don't know, they are unfamiliar, and here the Chamber knows everything. What did I say? What do politicians do? Tsipras wants to be a political man? What's he doing? They go down to the people, they say their arguments and they take the people with them. No attempt was made here. He went in secret and made the deals. It's a friendly tactic. What did he do with the Church? In the Church, the Patriarch knew nothing, no one knew anything. Only the Archbishop. It was, it says, a deal for a year and a half, etc. This is the dear tactic of democratic left-wings, to make it all ready and then say 'fake it'. That is Mr Tsipras' policy. But remember that a national mourning begins tomorrow. What is the national mourning? In that Greece from Larissa and above will feel betrayed and sad that its opinion has not been taken into account. Remember that. You acted indifferent to the Macedonian opinion. You have completely ignored the opposite view. You didn't fight at all. You know all about it, so this treaty can be signed by us, it may be beneficial to Zaev, but it is a duty of the next House to cancel it, and if Mr Mitsotakis says it is not cancelled. There is nothing imposed on the people against their will. A hundred "Metsotakis", five hundred "Tsiprai", whatever national or international agreements to do, when the people are opposed, does not swallow such actions. That's what you remember. You can barely drown the popular resistance. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Union of Centres is ringing.]] I met the Ambassador of Germany sometimes and I met him in Kalavrita and we sat next door and said to him, "Germany will burn with what you're going to do." He says to me: 'It will not pass?' I say to him: “Tsipras also has the solution to pass it on to Mitsotakis through elections. Tsipras also has this solution.’ At that time when I told him he was scared and said: 'What?' Tsipra's on this deal was taking him assortment. I'm telling you. Sometimes I didn't sleep because of how tied he is. People who had expressed anti-Americanism, people who went outside the US Embassy and did events and protests, are now the ones who express the will of the European Union and the Americans. You know, Vassilis Leventis who speaks to you is in favour of EMU, for the euro, and I believe that, if we went bankrupt, we went bankrupt because we had not made any reform and why a corrupt oligarchy here in Greece ended up with the Greek people, because they were running around channels and said "Merkel came here to take the oil, give us a Memorandum with the law, the bankers will eat us." The bankers didn't eat us. We were eaten by a corrupt 50-year-old political system that ate its flesh, just to make time for some Prime Ministers and to re-elect. That's what ate us if we want to be honest. What some people were suggesting on televisions that Europe is setting us up as hostages, taking our oil, all this is nonsense. We took our eyes off ourselves. The New Democracy was and is, he says, contrary to the Prespes. In 2018, when Mr Mitsotakis raised a question of distrust, I sent him a letter and asked him to say that, if he was elected Prime Minister, he would not use the word "Macedonia". Mr. Mitsotakis never answered me. I give this letter to the Minutes. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is the letter showing that Mr Mitsotakis was in favour of the term 'Macedonia'. Because if it were against the term 'Macedonia', what easier to answer is 'but, Mr President, you are mistaken, we are against the term'. So it's in favor of the term. There are tapes, there are statements by Abrahamopoulos, Mitsotakis, etc. Like PASOK, Venizelos and the others, who went to the United Nations and were in favour of the complex name. I'll tell you something. It is not bad that it was in the past in favour of a complex name. They may have appreciated that you're putting a negotiation proposal at the table. It doesn't mean they're traitors because they were in favour of a complex name. What's wrong with that? The evil is another thing: now that the people have given their opinion and know that by 80% it is against, they do not have the courage to say “we have mistaken, we have made bad assessments, and from now on we do not give the word “Macedonia””. They insist with various escapades to talk about identity, language. I think that's a big mistake, because they don't even say an apology. Because, in order to make the cutback on Tsipras, she was prepared on Karamanlis, on Mitsotakis. He's prepped. Let's tell the truth. Isn't that right? Ladies and gentlemen, there are dividends which are conscious and indeed betrayals. However, there are a number of cutbacks due to the stupidity of some Prime Ministers, we say, who are committing them. What do I mean? Old Constantine Karamanlis, when he went with Averov to the Zurich and London Agreement, I don't think he went to betray Greece. He was just told by the Americans, he signed, put the Turkish guarantor in Cyprus, and we take the Turk if he does any dishonesty. And the Americans deceived Karamanlis and forced Karamanlis to take us out of NATO, but in the meantime Turkey had taken half of Cyprus. And Ioannides, the junta, was not a traitor in the sense that he made Samson's coup in Cyprus in order to betray. Could have been a coup d'état. Could have been what it was, dictator. The Americans also told him "we hold the Turks" and betrayed him. They didn't hold any Turk. When the story happened, they said to him: “Get your eyes out. Resign.’ Mr. Tsipras will be the third. I make this provision in this Chamber. What he's doing today knows he's at the expense of the country and everything he says is fairy tales. He's doing everything, based on promises from the Americans and the Germans. But he forgets that they never kept their word to Greece. Do you once know where they kept him? And a man, Leventis the Vassilis, who I am in favour of the western orientation, speaks of Europe. I've never been a communist. A man who has always been in favour of the western way of life, but of the Western with dignity, not of the Western "to become a spoon of strangers". That's the difference. And when George Papandreou went to Washington a few months after he was sworn as Prime Minister, the Americans, Johnson, said: "Turks are being framed, Mr President. You must withdraw the Division from Cyprus.’ And he says: "If the Turks attack? " They said to him: "We are the Americans. And what does George Papandreou answer? "Do you not let us fight the Greeks who have reason to shed our blood for Cyprus? And let the fairy tales come from the other side of the Atlantic to shed your blood for Greece." So he answered. And in a few months Mitsotakis, with a number of sixty MPs, betrayed EPE, a palace, Americans. That's betrayal. And there were others who were willing...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u459	Mr President, can we conclude in due course?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u460	Mr. Koutsubas, do you know how much he talked about? Or didn't you see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u461	I know, I saw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u462	No, you might have missed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u463	No, I'm looking for a better example of keeping time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u464	Yes, all right, but it's a historic day, Mr. President. I'd love to do you a favor to get off now, but you know what? It's a historic day. From tomorrow there is a national mourning in Macedonia and throughout Greece. For Macedonia is not only about Macedonia. Others spilled blood. It's not just Macedonia. Don't take it locally, there's no local Macedonian support. Therefore, there are cutbacks also because they were based on the foreign factor’s conversation and the foreign factor betrayed them and stayed in the cold of the bath. At the rally, gentlemen of the New Democracy, did there ever be a conversation about language and identity? I participated in the rally and no one caught me telling me: "Mr. Leventis, put your back on our tongue." No one told me that. I remember only girls at the rally in Thessaloniki, who, as if they knew me for years, caught me and said, "Don't let them betray us, Mr. President. Do not let the name of Macedonia be given, with pain painted in their eyes. That pain I can't ignore. That is what Mr Tsipras should know, that in his joy of benefiting Zaev, because he alone benefits, I cannot participate. Unfortunately, Mr. Tsipras, at the party you're having tonight with the chemicals from outside, I, Vassilis Leventis, participate. I'm not allowed to participate in this party. I can't participate. You ignored the will of the people. And whoever ignores the will of the people is punished. Don't think you won't be punished. Last time Mr Kotzias was mistaken, I said there would be trials on what this House is voting on. And he said, "Are you threatening me?" That's where Kotzias was sitting. But me, why? Say I go from 4% to 14%. Am I going to pass on those responsible? Justice doesn't refer to it? It's a threat to you telling the other guy, be careful, why is this the assignment of popular sovereignty? Is it bad to tell you to be careful? He's telling you one to be careful, 'cause you're gonna get her anyway, the way it goes. And you're gonna have your own will from what I see. Also, something you're ignoring is the family. And even of the Americans, even of those who live in America, Australia, in Germany, does one of the Prespecies Agreement want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u465	Mr President, I repeat the call to be shortened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u466	Today, and Greece abroad, it is not just Macedonia that hurts. Do you think there are our compatriots in Germany, America, who accept that what this House is doing today is beneficial? Mr. Tsipras knows well why he hasn't voted for the expatriates. He knows very well. Yesterday Mr. Xydakis asked Mr. Teddy to become a wall against the Golden Dawn, a wall of democracy against the fascists. That's what Mr. Xydakis meant. Wall to join in this Chamber to save the country, why did Mr Xydakis not feel the need to propose? Just the wall to throw out any of your enemies for any reason? Is that what burns you? Wall to create a national force with which we are going, did the House not feel the need to do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u467	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u468	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm going to do you a favor, and I'm going to relieve you of my presence for now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u469	I didn't say that. So no congressman can talk, that's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u470	Journalists and parrots write, and they tell the panels that small parties are crushing and that bipartementism of the old age is revived. This may be true of both parties, the ANELs and the Potami, because they made their mistakes. I'm not happy. When small parties die, democracy does not win. However, these analysts have not calculated that there is a party, the Central Association, which will survive. This has not been calculated. And they will understand it on the night of the elections, because Mr. Mitsotakis may dream of a five-party parliament, but Thessaloniki now knows that Mr. Mitsotakis and his party named it. And Mitsotakis' father forty years gave the name and said, "In ten years we will forget it." To explain, family crime is Macedonia's tradition and do not worry that you support it. Just take advantage of Tsipras taking over all the dirty work. But don't forget something else, which you forget: from tomorrow when Greece declares national mourning of misery and dejection, or the measures you will give them - some bonuses and some money - do not buy Greeks. When the Greeks feel betrayed, they'll throw you in the face and the bonuses and the money and the hundred and twenty instalments and all. When families are left alone to think and talk, there they will see that they are betrayed by two "big" parties, SYRIZA and New Democracy. And I estimate that where analysts go to eliminate so-called parties, they will slowly fade off the two. Because they'll all be aware of what happened in here. Tsipras reduced, and the New Democracy set him up. I don't think there's anyone who didn't realize it. I shall therefore say a word to the Macedonians right now: patience, Macedonia. I swear, Vassilis Leventis, before the House and the people, that I will strive to cancel at whatever cost this dirty treaty, which Mr Tsipras considers to be beneficial today. At any cost, whatever it may be necessary, why all are sacrificed, but not the beliefs and inspirations of the sacred Macedonian. And those who think I'm doing it for a vote, remember that thirty-five, forty-four years, I was climbing up with a car, when it gave me 1% -1.5% and I didn't go on and on. That's what inspired me, and I knew the date was coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u471	Please, Mr President, I have no other way to explain what you said, that you will be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u472	I did not think, of course, that in this House that I entered, they would manage such serious issues. I couldn't believe that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u473	All right, come on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u474	On the night of the elections that the Central Association entered the House I could not imagine that national values would be at stake in this House. I couldn't imagine that! My oath, don't forget, wherever you are, and that those responsible and those responsible will face justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u475	Mr. Hadjisavvas from Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u476	How will they build a national wall against national problems people and parties who do not believe in a nation, believe in God and believe that the greatest master in the universe is theirs and make a partnership with New Democracy in the last few days and enjoy them by the Greek people? They said 'no' to the Golden Dawn proposal to cancel the agreement with an anti-constitutional proposal. Of course, I'm talking about the New Democracy. The New Democracy against SYRIZA has not finally testified and no one knows why. They didn't give up to stop the process. And when it was necessary, they also condemned the student mobilisations for the national issue of Macedonia. Not all of them joined the Memorandum Arc only to the Golden Dawn, but to the national purpose of saving our Macedonian Greekity. It was not enough for the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative to receive the applause from SYRIZA, but he dared to say that our ancestors were traitors and his parody, sitting around, applauded. To inform him and not to ask him his ancestors who fought, I will tell him that my ancestors died defending the city of Kilkis in 1944. Were they traitors? Because, if they were traitors, they are traitors and the ancestors of your MP and other MPs who died on the same day, in the same battle and every year we go to the same memory event. It was these traitors, the patriots. The current national problem is the result of decades of mistakes in our national strategy by all the governments that have passed, since 1990 and throughout the 1990s, with FYROM, even under the composite name that was supposedly a victory for Greece, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. It was a complex name and you accepted it and passed it for victory to the Greek people. The post for Macedonian identity is part of Tito's general communist expansion policy. That's well known. You're the only one who refuses it. So let the foolishness of supposedly innocent demand, because these ridiculous things have brought us to the current situation, that there should be FYROM, North Macedonia and Macedonia on the table. I mean, single scales, theirs. You brought us to a dead end as a Greek state. It's like having two houses, coming to claim them both, and when, after a long negotiation, you give him one, you say thank you from the top. There are, therefore, time-consuming responsibilities for the parties over all decades, as I said before. But if we take the speeches of the Chief of the Golden Dawn and the executives, which many of them are now Members of Parliament, all these decades we have the same position, no compromise for Macedonia. We could take them and testify to them in the Minutes. All the rest, however, parties move under micro-political criteria and change from 'no' to 'yes' and 'yes' to 'no', depending on how it suits them. The New Democracy, for example, should leave toys with adjectives, essentially, nationalities, nationalities and translations. These are to throw ashes into the eyes of the Greek people. If they get a composite name with "Macedonia", either "North" is, that you don't like, or "Slavomatonia" is, that you like and you suggest, take the Macedonian identity, take the language, take the story, take everything. After a hundred, two hundred years, whoever's been looking to find out will find that Macedonians are them, so their language is Macedonian and their identity is Macedonian. Now, the rest of the translations, nationality and citizenship are fairy tales. PASOK should go ask Mr Liani better, their MP, to tell them what the point was "Uranium Arc" and what it had to do with PASOK. ANEL and Kammenos contributed to everything, and now they suddenly became Macedonians. The Prespes didn't say anything against the deal when the signatures fell. They expected the Skopje wouldn't pass it. And finally the SYRIZA government is coming through this shameful deal and it's going to be noon, Mr. Cammene. The Centro and Potami Union have fed - with their will or not, it does not matter - the majority in favour of the agreement. And SYRIZA, of course, says as arguments some ridiculous things, that people no longer support mobilisations. He says the rally had only sixty thousand, seeing the millions of people he reacts to. If it was only sixty thousand, make an election, you're sure. Only sixty thousand were mobilized. There are, he says, three Macedonians, one is Greek. So when did you measure this since 1900? Why does it not start from before, from the time of Philip II or Alexander the Great? Because then he didn't have Bolsheviks, does the story start since you've been in charge? You hand over Macedonia's name and history to an unexistent military motif, the state of Skopje, without any requirement on their part. SYRIZA and historian New Democracy have recognized them as more than a hundred nations. What's that supposed to mean? It counts for Greece to recognize them. It's like saying some people recognized that there is a Turkish occupying army in Cyprus. And what happened? Is anything changed? The question is whether Turkey recognized that it was a resident army in Cyprus. That's why Greece's recognition is counting on that name you said. A thousand states if they'd recognized them, it wouldn't count. The Greek people must know that nothing is over. Now is the start of a complaint against the cancellation of the agreement. The Skopje agreement has already been violated and it is invalid. It had to end in 2008. It didn't happen. It has not been signed by the President of Skopje. I hope it's not signed by the Greeks. They haven't changed their constitution. They will add, it says, some annexes that we understand that a government tomorrow in Skopje, VMRO, will be able to abolish them very easily. Skopje's albums did not cease in and out of Greece. The Rainbow is over. He's out and he's making announcements now that you're going to rub your eyes. And people should understand that you should have taken a fresh order from the people with elections to make such agreements. The Prime Minister said so. In conclusion, I would like to say that by giving strength to the Golden Dawn, with the help of God, the deal will be cancelled in practice, because the wrestlers of history came yesterday and tomorrow they will not exist. Our sacred Greek nation, however, has been there for thousands of years and will also be there for thousands of years after this shameful agreement. You like it, you don't like it, the story always writes it the last survivor in the battlefield, that is, the winner. And as the poet says: “Behind us others come. The army our sons and our grandchildren will win."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u477	Mr Kavadas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u478	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have seen an awkward Prime Minister who said nothing to defend his policy. He proved his idealism and had nothing to counter the arguments of our President, Mrs Mitsotakis. It has described as difficult and artificial the most important points of this agreement, namely that it has given Macedonian ethnic and language to our northern neighbours, which has done no other government and no Prime Minister except Mr Tsipras. Mr President, all the arguments about the national humiliating agreement have been heard and analysed in this Chamber and in the committee, where I have tabled my views. Refugee, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to realise that by the positive vote you are preparing to give the country on major future adventures. You think you are writing history and you are actually writing history with black pages, because you hand over, as we have repeatedly told you, nationality and language to a neighboring people who have nothing to do with them. I do not want to look at why our neighbours insist on self-determination which does not belong to them and which, in the end, also refuses its own content. Because, anyway, it is at least paradoxical to want to be called Macedonian and to reject any relationship with everything that the Greek, from ancient times to Byzantium, until the Macedonian War itself and the later Balkan Wars. After all, I can understand that the neighbours, for their own reasons and through the need to diversify and acquire a separate identity, have chosen this route. And I don't want to get involved in any foreign forces or point out which historically were motivators of Macedonianism. But I cannot believe that Greek Government, Greek Government, puts its signature on a text that practically recognises nationality and language by Macedonian determination. Even assuming that some of you are still committed to ideological perceptions, cultivated in your political space in the first half of the last century, it is impossible not to understand the pouch of Hail that you are opening, now that you are government, for the country in the future. Because it is not possible - and I am speaking above all to those of you who play themselves for their left-wing roots and payouts - you who say that you are reading history, you who are proud of the correctness of your analytical policy, do not care that the Ambassadors' Agreement opens up the bourgeois of reformism. I'll make it simpler. Think of what would happen if the Treaty of Lausanne instead of the Muslim minority were registered or recognised by another minority by ethnic and non-religious determination. We have Erdogan in front of us every day to talk about the revision of this treaty. You cannot, ladies and gentlemen, know all this. But there is still something very dangerous here, which concerns the cohesion of the Greek society. Whoever took a walk through the rally in the Constitution would have felt a great difference in the world's mood compared to the previous ones. This difference was that there was widespread anger and a great determination that the Embassy Agreement would not be accepted. At the same time, the political power decided to confront the Greek people with mass violence in an unprecedented act of police violence for post-cultural, mass violence against young children, elderly and general Greek citizens who protested peacefully, on the basis of the actions of some illegitimate or even provocative people. The political power, through the police and on the basis of the activities of the para-states, has decided to hit the most massive gathering of the last decades on the national issue, which, in the final analysis, concerns the very existence of our country. And it's not just anger. It is a sense of abandonment, but also an ever-increasing concept in society that you have now completely cut off from the popular masses. In other words, there is complete disharmony of government and people. And this has come to us with a government - a statement by the left. Thus the polarization created to the Greek people and their Government is unprecedented. Why, you know what? Even the minority, who still supports you, does not approve the agreement. Even if some people really think that they are making the right choice on the issue of the Prespecies Agreement, they should understand that its violent imposition on the Greek people will cause consequences within the country that we probably can't even imagine right now. Not only the parties, but also the Members of Parliament, must assume their responsibilities towards history, against democracy, the people's will, political stability and fairness, above all against the future of the Greek people. Come and listen to his voice with us. Here we are to express him in the big national decisions, not to divide him and lead him into the extreme and dangerous roads to democracy. It's not bad to recognise your mistake. Vote against this agreement, because otherwise, tomorrow's voting day, January 25, 2019, will be written as a black page in Greece's history, by those who vote, together with the willing, a national humiliation agreement, an agreement from which no one will be able to make back. Because that's the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u479	Mr Arvanitides of the Democratic Partnership has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u480	Ladies and gentlemen, the government has claimed with unscrupulous historical lightness, legal conscientiousness and, on a project by its party interest, an even top theme of national importance, the "Macedonian". So you are bringing in an arbitrary historical, legal and working politics agreement to be ratified, with the aim of harming your political opponents. Such an agreement, aggregating the Democratic Integration, is against it, as it does not guarantee national interests. The juncture was extremely favourable. The government did not seek national understanding. The Prime Minister did not even convene a Council of Political Heads to update the national negotiating line when Mr Zaev met the heads of the other parties in Skopje five times. The national position for the "Macedonian" was a complex name, erga omnes, a single name of state, citizens and nationality, both abroad and internally. Article 1(10)B provides that the official documents of the public administration intended for internal use will be changed within five years, with the opening of the respective chapter of the accession process in the European Union. Erga omnes on parole for the interior of their own country. With the European Union in the Brexit warp and in the existential dilemmas, which will be intensified after the European elections in May, but also with certain certainty when any future enlargement is in place, the dual name is here to stay. There are insignificant strategic and tactical errors. At no time in the negotiations, we did not have the initiative. And initiative means not being dragged from the choices your interlocutor wants to impose on you and the central option "here and now join NATO" and "aron - arrow baptism him" was the choice of the other part and third countries. It wasn't our choice. The people's reactions to Greece against the agreement were demonised and unfortunately never used as a negotiating weapon. We have blocked all the instruments of power, accepting the early start of the accession talks in NATO and the European Union. A country with real power would not accept this process. A country builds its power strategically and tactically, even if it is in the canvass. It would be much more useful for the country, those who are fascinated by comparing themselves with Andrew Papandreou, if they were to study his policy more thoroughly and not just copy the tone of his voice. For example, when the PASOK government imposed the 1994 embargo, Greece took the initiative of moves. A year ago, in an explosion of sincerity, former Prime Minister Costas Mitsotakis in the French newspaper "LE MONDE" had appeared repentant and said he would wish he could return a year back when Skopje was ready to accept the name "North Macedonia". And now the New Democracy forgets. But the people do not forget. Following the signing of the Interim Agreement in March 1996, the conclusion of diplomatic relations between the United States of America and the former Yugoslav Republic has ceased. This is how patriotic foreign policy is conducted, not with illusions that Greek businesses will dominate Skopje, that Thessaloniki of the great narratives and unfulfilled visions can play a leading role in the Balkans and thus develop with narratives, without real power position. Not nationally humiliated, therefore, by industry and by the opening of mustamads. An agreement that starts before its ratification with a need for clarifications, legal communications and interpretations is not a good omen. He's already mistreated and created negatively featuring. The irony of luck and of history is that we have given the Albanian MPs its interpretation of Greek interests. The government legalises a historical distortion, and that is the root of evil. We had to insist on issues of identity, language, culture and citizenship. Nationality is given to the individual by the State and therefore appears or disappears together with the present State. Here, then, we will have a state called "North Macedonia", which first appears in world history today, and this state for the first time gives the "Macedonian", not the "North Macedonian" citizenship. Why has the example of a new state, which has just become a member of the UN, South Sudan, not followed, at least? The nationality of South Sudan is referred to as 'South Sudan' and is not called 'Swedish', even though it was once part of that state. The conclusion of all this and the final weighing is that only the state will be called "North Macedonia" and all the others will be called "Macedonian", territory, language, culture, people, citizenship, online references, products. What about the national anthem? That's what we forgot. The national anthem, this identifiable symbol of the state, like the flag, four times refers to the "Macedonian" redeemed, released. And that's what the whole world's gonna sing in this state. We're giving all this to the Greek boulder, with our consent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u481	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u482	You tell me I'm from 15:00 here, Mr. President. One-and-a-half minutes, I'd like to. It's nothing special. Ladies and gentlemen, those of you who find that the Prespecies Agreement saves valuable diplomatic capital, closes for the first time to focus on the main national threat, which is Turkey, and how do you close a shitty wound? You just put gauze and knapst in a wound, without antiseptic, without disinfecting the microbial of pseudo-altectomy. The deal doesn't close wounds. Only stop the long conflict for the name of the state and open the Pandora box, as you entered many temptations. It opens up wounds and issues that we and the next generations will find before us. And, in the climate of your refusal to have national consultation, you also make TV spots. What for? It's just that it was fair and it was done. I read for myself: "They are Macedonians because they are Greeks and why they live in an area that has always existed Greeks. The word “Greek” is a concept of genus. The word “Macedonna” is a concept of species. The Macedonians can only be Greek as they have always been."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u483	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u484	They are written not by an ultrapatriot, but by Vassilis Rafaelides in his book "The People of the Balkans". So as someone says that he is proud Cretan because he is a Greek or proud Continental because he is Greek, I want my children abroad to say that they are proud Macedonians because they are Greek and not ask them whether they are from Macedonia or Macedonia. In conclusion, I would like to say that at times like those of ordinary Members, whom the fate of the country's history is judged, they assume a great responsibility. This great responsibility I call on everyone to think about mentioning the following minimum. "Macedonia belongs to the one who will take it," Eleftherios Venizelos said in the outbreak of the First Balkan War, showing in every way his determination to join the Greek national body of one of the sub-periods of Hellenism. And he did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u485	Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u486	Really what would he understand and how he would feel today by listening to "we the Macedonians and you Greeks" by Mr. Zaev? Let's ask ourselves a question before we vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u487	Be well. Mr. Nassos Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u488	Thank you, Mr President. What's our point? Macedonia or the anticipated prime minister? Macedonia or electoral prevalence? If our point is Macedonia, I have a few questions to make. Question one. How can an agreement that could be a monument to national consensus turns into a trophy of division? The Prespecies Agreement could not have been in place unless the Interim Agreement had not been preceded by Andrew Papandreou. Nor could we end up with it without what the Government of New Democracy achieved in 2008. So we have the Interim Agreement of 1995 with Andreas Papandreou and Bucharest in 2008 with Kostas Karamanlis and the Prespecies Agreement in 2018 with Alexis Tsipras. These events demonstrate in practice a high level of national consensus. Those who turned it into a division, do they realize how bad they're doing in the country? Are they aware that this is how national disasters start? "For the fucking Prime Minister of Voula Patulidou, who'd say the fan of Voula Patulidou! Many wanted our northern neighbour's constitution here and now with a seal and a signature. Question two. Is an international agreement exaggerated or not? Does an international agreement under the auspices of the United Nations outweigh the constitution of the parties involved? It prevails, it's the clean, sloppy answer. Ask third and most important. Some people think you're capable of influencing Eleftherios Venizelos? Why are you mocking and prejudging Eleftherios Venizelos? Because that's exactly what some people do. They engage in the platinum against the face of Eleftherios Venizelos when they claim that Macedonia is one and Greek. We've heard it in here a hundred times. That's shock, getting the pebbles up to hit the tumor of our younger story. In 1913 at the Bucharest International Conference, Venizelos claimed Macedonia, not whole. He reclaimed all he could get and took the biggest part. With this treaty, Greece has become twice as much. Of sixty - three thousand square miles [60,000] [20,000 more] [20,000] [20,000] more] area. From two million six hundred thousand people to four million seven hundred thousand. Her Sperson border went to Nestos. What happened in Bucharest? Serbia took northern Macedonia to Radovica and Stromnica and most of the Bardari Valley. Greece guaranteed Thessaloniki and took Halkidiki, the port of Kavala with almost the entire mainland, and of course the southern Epirus, Ioannina, the Aegean islands, except the Dodecanese. Bulgaria provided an exit to the Aegean Sea, which later prevented the blood of the Greeks and Venizelos again. Eleftherios Venizelos with Bucharest in 1913 and Lausanne in 1923 set the borders of the country we live today. Since 1923 Greece has been defending its territorial integrity on these limits. This has been our national line for over 90 years. You are now breaking this agreement, saying that there is no Macedonia except the Greek one. If you break the 1913 Bucharest Agreement, how, gentlemen of the New Democracy, will you defend the 1923 Lausanne Agreement, which Erdogan now wants to change? When will you understand that they put Greece at risk? On July 26, 1913, the newspaper "ESTIA" wrote: "The Treaty of Bucharest will remain in history as one of the honorary and rightful conditions of the centuries." What the centuries have seen doesn't seem to be seen by some nowadays. There are also chemicals of populism, you see. That's a fourth question. At Sunday's rally, I saw priests. Have these people heard of the attempts to form a Muslim arch at our northern border? Have they thought of what steps are to prevent it and what steps are to help it? Let us now take a neutral observer of the Prespecies Agreement. I propose that the 'THE ECONOMIST' be inspected because he does not particularly like SYRIZA. On June 30, 2018, he writes: "The Skopje", "Macedonians" tells them, so everyone says, "they had to swallow a difficult deal with Greece. Now they need Europe's help." Unfortunately, this'required to swallow' is a little bit to calm down some. That's an arrogant question. Is it a good thing that this state exists on our northern border? If it's any interest to us, we have to respect it. If it does not interest us, who benefit from us? You know their names, but you're spending them. I want to hang up with Thessaloniki, who embraced me in my first student years. Thessaloniki, I know it always bothered you, always begged you in the heart to be called "collapsing". The "collapse" implied that you could not be a capital without this "collective". Thessaloniki, will you refuse to become the capital of the Balkans? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, Mr. Nassos Athanasios, for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, MEPs are calling for a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u490	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Mr. Barkas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u491	Thank you very much, Mr President. I could not comment on the headline appearance of Mr. Samaras from this step, which, in forty-five minutes, did not once mention Mr. Konstantinos Mitsotakis once, but I was the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Government of Mr. Karamanlis, or Mr. Karamanlis and Bucharest himself in 2008. Ladies and gentlemen, in many respects today's debate in this House is historic. And I'm sure that one way or another she'll take her place as one of the most remarkable moments in Greek history. And I say this because the Macedonian, the naming, which has produced results in our country over the last thirty years is a fact that demands us politically, economically, socially and ideologically. It was Mr. Samaras' name and attitude at the beginning of 1990 that launched political developments, resulting in the fall of the Mitsotakis government and creating data inside and outside the New Democracy that follows us to this day. It is its nominal and outstanding opportunity to fuel nationalism in Greece and in the neighbouring country. Top right organizations stood in northern Greece and cultivated hatred against the neighboring people. But on the opposite side of the border, however, a aggressive and x-ray way of creating a national identity was reproduced. The previous Gruevski government had invested in the ethnicism and the account of Macedonianism, turning Skopje into a Kitch archaeological park. It is the nominal occasion to add a new enemy to our country next to them, Albania and Turkey. My generation has grown up by the fact that the neighbours to the north and east are our enemies. And it will be written in the historical memory of our country, because a dispute is resolved, and it is resolved in a democratic and cooperative way, with the aim of accepting both parties' terms. This is because there are two governments in the two countries, which have made an assumption, that they will sit at a debate table with the aim of finding a solution. In fact, a solution which is not based on the law of the strongest, but on cooperation, on acceptance of diversity, on respect for the traditions of the two peoples. We are positive and very pleased that we have solved a problem which has wasted enough political capital. Because we're different, colleagues. We practice an active policy while you were, you are, and you will be in favour of inertia. We are in favour of solutions and take responsibility for finding these solutions. You want the problem to continue, because you live through the problem, because you build political careers in it. We're with stability. You seek instability. We present the truth to the Greek people. You're always lying. The Government succeeds in implementing the national line, a complex name with geographical identification for all uses, Erga omnes. The agreement is nationally beneficial, it covers the national line at 110% and the New Democracy's attitude, if it were not dangerous, would be ridiculous. At the beginning of the negotiations it formulates the most official way through its President, the words of its President, the national line, perhaps because it underestimated the dynamics of things and thought that such a solution would not be possible. When he saw that the Greek Government's proposal is entirely accepted, the Civic Opposition makes the change of Macedonia's constitution conditional, in order to guarantee these changes, and that is where they were lost. Finally, having suffered reverential defeats, he returns with complaints about the performance of the language and the nation. They know they are lying, but on this they continue to divide Greek society. Both in the agreement and in the financial communication of the Macedonian Government the term ‘nationality’ refers exclusively to citizenship and does not define or substitute an ethnic link. Passports of citizens of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia shall be reported as ‘Macedonian/citizen of the Republic of Northern Macedonia’. Citizens will be in Northern Macedonia and will officially be called "North-Macedonians" or "People of Northern Macedonia". In fact, what is being done here is that the opponents of the agreement, when they saw that the national line, started looking for something to be caught. Unfortunately, they did not have people who know international law or international practice. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition has chosen strange and difficult roads to set up its strategy. It's hard for New Democracy to believe that our government has reached such a deal. She's trying to rally the process, because she can't accept that the SYRIZA Government, a left-wing government, can solve issues that the previous governments have not been able to resolve, and she's politicizing with her fantasy. It would like us not to bring such an agreement, because it was political - I conclude, Mr President - in an area which, in its opinion, had an advantage. But politics with fantasy is a dangerous path. He writes Breech in the "Stories of Mr. Conner": "Mr. K. doesn't need to live in a particular country. I could starve anywhere, he said. One day, however, she passed through a city conquered by her enemy. That's where an enemy officer stopped him and forced him to come down the sidewalk. Mr. K. came down and realized that he had been angry with that man and not only with man, but mainly with man's country, so much that he wished for her disappearance. But how did I become a nationalist? He wondered. It's the nationalist who found himself in front of me. That's why the nonsense has to be extinguished. 'Cause he makes foolish anyone in front of her.' Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment in history each and every one of us chooses on which side of history wants to stand, and we chose it before we even find ourselves in today's process. The Left in our country has shown, by its word and deeds, how it strives to unite the peoples and has often paid for it with its own blood. We are proud, therefore, to say 'yes' to the agreement which unites the people, 'yes' to the agreement which solves a chronic problem, 'yes' to the agreement which creates a new situation in the Balkans. The light will win, as it has always done in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u492	Thank you, too. Mr. Synthrakis from the JRC has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u493	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA, the New Democracy, and even the Golden Dawn, are fighting for the name, but hiding their condolences in the most important article of the Prespecies Agreement, Article 2, which is the accession of FYROM to NATO and the European Union, to move Euro-Atlantic integration forward in the Western Balkans. The JRC has repeatedly caused them to be placed for Article 2. But owling about the murder, talking about the people's killers, the demand of which is the deal! The SYRIZA Government resorts both to the conscious distortion of the JRC's positions and to the silence of the reactionary content of the agreement, and even to the point of calling it anti-imperialist, progressive and international. The greater the distortion of the truth, the greater the "washer" to "wash" the crimes of American and European imperialism with the hundreds of dead, the unscrupulous misery, the refugee it has caused around the world. But who applaud SYRIZA, the Tsipras Zaev, the agreement itself, to see how progressive and internationalists they are? Is it Trump who came out with the votes and the support of Ku Klux Klan, who sets up walls and kills immigrants? Is the Ambassador of the United States, who comes and is being treated in the country as a new Pirifoi and calls Greece "menesis of the pursuits of American imperialism"? Is NATO, this murderous organization, responsible for the Cypriot tragedy and the imposition of the dictatorship in Greece, the one who plays Pontius Pilate's role in Turkish aggression and the Aegean's 'grey'? Is he NATO Secretary General? Is the alliance between the European Union, poverty, unemployment, the dictatorship of the monopolies? It's Merkel, McCron, Juncker, Kurts, Austrian extreme right-wing Prime Minister, and many other "buds" of international imperialism. Yes, SYRIZA has taken on the role of a procurer of Euro-Atlantic projects, creating new numerous naval bases across Greece, upgrading the operational role of the Souda base, turning the island into a floating airplane and guiding for new murderous military interventions in the Eastern Mediterranean and North Africa. They are all conscious that NATO and the European Union are not factors of progress, security, friendship, peace and cooperation for the people. Instead, they are agents of bloodshed, pain, refugee, subjugation of nationalism and aluterism. They are the ones who dispersed Yugoslavia in 1990, which caused the bloody wars in Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Iraq, Syria, Libya and elsewhere. It's the ones that SYRIZA protects. Their own crimes are 'neutral'. With the mask of cosmopolitanism, the government acquiescences the role of imperialism and, despite its apparent opposition, it is in practice encountered and assisted by nationalist forces and patriots who, although reacting to the agreement, do not question the strengthening of NATO and the European Union. This is their common denominator, such as their common denominator is the perpetuation of capitalist sovereignty, competitiveness and capital profitability. Cosmopolitanism and nationalism are the two sides of the same currency and the two children of capitalism and serve the perpetuation of its sovereignty. The major issues, such as the treatment of allotmentism, are not only referred to the uncertain future, but it is also taking an even more dangerous turn after the government has accepted the positions of the "Macedonian citizen" and "Macedonian language", which are the sperm of pervertism. These vague formalities have a seal on the Americans and NATO, in order to maintain the alpha-fixing and nationalism in both countries, so that they can always find a way to intervene and divide peoples. The agreement is also dangerous for peace in the region, for cooperation, for stability, for friendship between the peoples of the Balkans, but also historically neglected. The geostrategic upgrade, which SYRIZA is fighting for on behalf of domestic and American monopolistic groups, is equivalent to an even greater involvement of the country in the imperialist wars, which is directly confessed to the recent report by the US Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Greece, which says it is the dedicated partner in promoting the interests of the United States. Against so-called progressive cosmopolitans and nationalist patriots, fascists chrysayites, extreme right-wing cultures that collaborated up to a precedent with SYRIZA are only the Communist Party of Greece. "Many times beat me, but my clone doesn't break, because I have roots deep and they keep me." We call on the genuine patriots, internationalists, radicals, progressives and democrats, who are concerned and struggling for the developments and the new adventures that urban governments lead us with NATO, the American and European imperialists, those who fight and want a proud Greece outside NATO, the European Union, the murderous wolves, without foreign bases. We call on all left who believed and have been misled by SYRIZA's false hopes, those who feel that the far-right fascist, Nazi cultures, the system's noodles must be defeated and crushed, those who believe in friendship, cooperation, brotherhood of the peoples and fight against capitalist barbarism, those who bruising 'no' in the Tsipras - Zaev agreement, 'no' in the US - NATO - European Union, 'no' to 'no' in the activism and nationalism, 'yes' in the friendship and solidarity and common struggle of the peoples. Those who want to join in the anti-capitalist, anti-monopoly, anti-imperialist struggle, the dismissal of capitalist barbarism and the building of the new society, social justice, socialism, militant with the JRC and strengthen it everywhere, both within the movement and in all the upcoming elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u494	Thank you, too. Mrs. Stamaki from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u495	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is a historic day for our country and also for the Balkans. Today it is time to end with an issue that has been pending for years, national enclave, a wound in our relations with our neighboring people, but also within the very same Greek society, where every voice he called to see the issue with sobriety was dealt with as treason. To highlight the issue of the name of the state resulting from the dissolution of Yugoslavia in our national affairs has created fertile ground for the rise of intolerance and perceptions. At the Macedonian rallys, which was then supported by the official state, we had the first public mass appearance of the Golden Dawn, which was accompanied by the attack on left students at the courtyard of ASEAN in December 1992. What has resulted in the intransigence of the Greek state in the 1990s, the 1994 embargo and the Belgrade veto? Has he upgraded our country's position on the international political scene? On the contrary, the UN and other international organisations have always sought to normalise relations, while the non-resolution of the issue has led to the widespread use of the constitutionally established name, namely "Macedonia". In 2008, the country was sentenced by the International Court of The Hague to violate the terms of the Interim Agreement. You ask, ladies and gentlemen, that we go back, that we remember what has happened so many years in international organisations, in international sports events or other international events. Everyone had recognized, said the neighbouring state "Macedonia" as well, without geographical identification, and we did not see and listen and turn the faces like spoiled children. In this policy, we did not weaken the nationalism of our neighbour, instead we strengthened him and led him to the prevalence of Gruevski's nationalism. Nevertheless, today we have to recognise that there is a government that is made up of composition and dialogue and has proved this in practice, by accepting the terms of the agreement, with which we can work together and achieve the peaceful coexistence of the two peoples and, more generally, of the peoples of the Balkans. Greece's position for a complex name with a geographical definition vis-à-vis everyone is not new. It is a position of the governments, the New Democracy and the PASOK. But instead of today being conducive to a matter considered national, the New Democracy is holding an irresponsible attitude, by exploiting the revival of Macedonia as a field of demagogic nationalist exploitation, by artificially avoiding its internal division and by making the charisma to extreme right-wing executives who have entered its lines in recent years. The New Democracy today creates a bad record of the party's policy. Wanting to fish in the cloudy waters of the extreme right legalizes their word. We saw the sad and dangerous slogan: "Democracy sold Macedonia" in the schools of western Thessaloniki. Who has the political responsibility for this and who even exploits the students for micro-party purposes? Who encourages fascist-type acts of targeting MPs with posters, with malicious urges through the mass social media, with direct threats through phone calls and messages and terrorist attacks, even at Members' homes? Who supports and finances this campaign? Who's covering those who tried to invade the House building? The bucket slowly unravels and quickly come to its end, and then we will see who and who the traitors are, who the liars are, who sold the symbols, the history, the language and the territories. All this, ladies and gentlemen, does not scare us or prevent us from supporting the patriotic and nationally beneficial Ambassadors' agreement. In every modern democratic country, the possibility of a peaceful solution to a problem that has been afflicting relations with a neighbouring state for decades would in itself be a joyful event. Today the international community is congratulating the Greek Government on the resolution of the Macedonian government. The country's position is being upgraded and we are becoming a credible force for stability in the Balkans. We are strengthening cooperation with our neighbours, building friendly relations, encouraging cooperation between chambers of commerce, as well as between scientific and technological institutions and research centres. For us, then, patriotism is to pursue the peaceful coexistence and solidarity of peoples, the coexistence that contributes to the positive development of the wider region in which Greece is a strong pole. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We do not use our force aggressively, creating enemies, but constructively, creating useful allies. Today we are proud of this agreement. We get rid of and relieve society of a burden. Closes a black page and opens a light page on the course and history of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u496	Thank you. Mr Staruras from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u497	Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy with a sense of responsibility towards the long history and the prospect of homeland is voting against the ratification of the Prespecies Agreement. It supports the establishment of a mutually acceptable solution between the two neighbouring countries - and this is historically confirmed - but a solution that respects the real historical and national data and does not give neighbors room for arbitrary claims in the future. The Prime Minister failed to take advantage of the acquis of national understanding on this critical issue, which was accumulated by the previous governments, especially the New Democracy, and preferred by personal means to bring an agreement full of holes, which he has today in his speech on secondary and complex legal issues, while it is absolutely essential, with the expectation that he will gain personal political benefit. So today, with the help of an artificial parliamentary majority, the Greek Parliament brings an agreement that does not shield the country for a long time, an agreement which makes it a perforated foreign policy of decades, an agreement which the government has hurriedly pushed against its own predictions, an agreement that moves towards the national feeling, with an ideological government which does not care about the genuine patriotic sensitivities of the citizens but also the positions of the parties, calling on the parliamentarians to legislate, without a single, comprehensive and codified constitutional text. It is sad that the current government, in order to cover its failures and errors, is trying to recover and use selective and distorted elements of the past. It uses claims that are historically unsubstantiated, false and nationally harmful. I will not follow this path, despite the fact that I could table a long chain of speeches and practices by supporters of the timeless account of Macedonia, but also its last expression by a series of surnamed SYRIZA officials, who, even in the critical phase of 2008, urged the neighboring country to be given the name «Macedonia». Nor will I go along with some late Macedonian people who have had the opportunity in the motion of censure to prevent felons already in existence since the signing of the agreement and have not done so. So all of these people are not entitled to teach us lessons. Ladies and gentlemen, the government despises the Greek people, tramples down the genuine sensitivities of the majority, and moves forward in the middle of a number of classes of former members of the government for meddling in the ratification of a transnational agreement, without political legitimacy, with an incentive: a demonstration of willingness. He brings an agreement that already produces international results, which have acquired the character of a fait accompli, such as the entry of the neighbouring country into NATO. That is to say, the government has been rushing - literally - and delivering to our neighbours key negotiating keys, which our country has been holding since 2008, such as the entry of the neighbouring country into the European Union and delivering them without guaranteeing our fair national interests, covering heavy, deep retreats with great verbal structures. He makes concessions, after he first acknowledges the existence of a so-called Macedonian language and a Macedonian nation, while accepting in the private communication of our neighbours the existence of even Macedonian people. These are concessions that create fertile ground for maintenance in neighbors of morbid ideologies. Watch out, from a small sperm they might get big roots. The government therefore retreats, without ensuring the country's interests over the long term, by creating a precedent for national retreat. Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons the Prespecies Agreement is a heterogeneous, nationally harmful and dangerous agreement for the future. At this critical juncture, we have a duty and responsibility towards history and the future to stand up to the circumstances, to keep society together, away from the extremes and extremities, to face up to the challenges and risks with unity, determination, confidence, modesty, dignity and pride. The Nea Democrat Republic on its long journey has proved to be in a national responsible position. It is not politically speculated on the problems of the country and of the citizens. He now assumes historian responsibility to say "no" to ratification of the Prespecies Agreement and soon commits, with the people's decision, to reintroducing national stability, confidence, pride and especially credibility to Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u498	Mr. Psarianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u499	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with a description of the situation we see in the country, in relation to the Macedonian. We have been separated, with great ease again, into traitors and fascists. Half the people in favour of the agreement are sold, traitors, etc. Those against the agreement are far-right, fascist, idealist and change. This story, dear friends, the few who are here, but also those who are listening to us, must one day end. We've been through six civils and five, six bankruptcies. And always for all of this, 'it was because of strangers'. At some point we need to look at each other in our mirror and see what we have said, where we have gone, what we have done, what acts, what omissions, how we got here, how we threatened each other at every opportunity, with the Gouda, with the hangers, with the German-Christmas, sellers, donors, etc., how much wood has fallen and how many heads have been opened before six, seven, eight years, and now we are in front of such phenomena. This story must end here. We have to finish it now. On the subject that we are discussing, in the programme of the Government, the first time on the left, there was no hint on this issue, that we will also be undertaking to resolve various major national issues pending: Macedonian, Cypriot and Aegean. There was no mention of such major, top national issues. At some point, people have seen that there is a willingness here to apply what others have not dared to apply and says to you "now when it comes back, do we not put on a few issues and close them?" And that's the issue of the Macedonian, the scumbag, as you would like to say. A national line has hardly been reached. We agreed with mutual retreats with the northern neighbours to find a solution for the benefit of both peoples, with a complex name and progress. In '92, '93, when I was still on the radio, and I was talking about the subject on the radio, on the occasion of rallying, mobilization, etc. I said a few things that seemed heretic and curious, as let's say the motto "Macedonia is Greek" is wrong. I wrote: "Greek Macedonia is Greek". In history, in emotion, in all Macedonia is Greek. But we're talking about borders, geographical areas, etc. The Greek Macedonia is therefore Greek. Also, there was an issue and a slogan “no use of the term “Macedonia”. That's nowhere. I shall start by saying about what I have been accused of, or blamed for, those who have described this issue in this way as brokers, sold. Others were Macedonians, others were "macedonoclasts", said by comrade Kammenos, the former "first time left" and we reached a point where twenty-seven years have passed since a solution should have been given, and still this issue is still pending and afflicts us. I personally tell you - and the people around me - of course we are in favour of the solution. But we are against this agreement. What for? We agree on a complex name. Some of the extreme right do not agree with the complex name, because they consider it a sale. I would like to tell you that in an interview I had given Stavros Theodorakis to the "Protagonists" in 2007, when I was first elected here, I had spoken about this very clearly. Several well-intentioned people have uploaded this video, to blame me, some golden people have been selling Macedonia's name since 1993 and I have been a broker and sold and the symblags have been saying that I was saying that I was saying other things now. Just what I said at the time, that's exactly what I'm saying and I think now. We agreed to accept, to have relationships of friendship and cooperation with neighbours, which is the best. We have wasted time, we have banned, banned borders, various nonsense that has cost us both to ourselves and to them, and they have cost us our role in the Balkans too, for twenty years, not to say any more. Now why did the government decide to resolve this issue, without any national agreement, without any consensus with the parties on the democratic arch, and to arrive at a proposal for a complex name Erga omnes, but also with all the neighbours and agree and move on? Why didn't he do that? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] He did not do so, because he wanted to use this agreement as a tool to dismantle, to crush, to make up - down - the opposition and to change partner, to get rid of the extreme right weights and to get into the process of Central Left and the governance of progressive forces in the near future. This was the concern of the government and its study and as willing to implement what they said to her: 'Go, finish with this issue, get people into NATO and the European Union.' I personally believe that they should join both NATO and the European Union. Others wanted to get Greece out of NATO, and now they do all the errands they ask for, to put others in NATO. From where they wanted to get Greece out, they now want to put in NATO and everyone else, those who can. Have we got some directions to do that? Possibly. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u500	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u501	But when we agree on a complex name, such as 'North Macedonia', all right, why is it not all 'North Macedonia'? Why is it not in nationality, citizenship, nationality - as you wish, say it - and in language? The tongue must be north-east. They have asterisks and the agreement and the private communication that this language is called "Macedonian", but it is in the south-Slavic countries. All right, they're slavic, they're slavophones. Yes, yes. It's written. Why don't we say "Slavumacedon"? They don't want, he says, Albanians. Then why do we put it in the private communication and in the agreement that it is of Slav origin? Put 'Slavumacedonian' on it. Why don't we put it on?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u502	Good. Let's get this over with tonight, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u503	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Why not use the complex name erga omnes toward everyone, but also to all agreements and citizenship and citizenship 'North Macedonian'? Why not? Why did we make these concessions? Can someone answer me why? Was there a reason? Don't we agree to the composite name? So this deal has big raisins and it goes in. He goes from everywhere for today and for tomorrow and for the future. I would like to close by saying that the government had told us that it would be voted on upstairs, that the constitutional revision would take place, that we would see it and vote on it. We have not seen the constitutional review either. They have told us what they will change, they may change them. Tomorrow at noon, however, we will vote for the agreement, without having seen the final wording and without seeing if anything has changed. And now, Mr President - and I am ending - is Zafe, who is a convenient man. It's fine to agree on a good solution from the outset. Mayday, when a Gruevski number three is coming, we're gonna let these pit holes in the deal get in? When we agree something, you and I sign it, it doesn't change that after. Before we reach this dead end, then, let us look at a solution for both Greece and Northern Macedonia and for the best place for Greece in the Balkans. This deal has huge raisins and it gets from everywhere. The government used it as a tool and let it vote on its own. A hundred and fifty a Member of Parliament doesn't the government have a majority? Come in, vote, you're done! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u504	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-01-24-S1-commons.u505	With the agreement of the House at 3.17 p.m. the meeting for Friday, January 25, 2019, at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Resolution of the Final Agreement on Dispute Settlement described in United Nations Security Council Resolutions 817 (1993) and 845 (1993), the Closure of the Interim Agreement of 1995 and the establishment of a Strategic Partnership between the Parties’.
