ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS First of all, we are told by the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Koutnajis. We begin with the third with number 4/11-9-2019, a top-cycle question from the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group and MEP Larisis Kyriakos Velopoulos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Definition of the Exclusive Economic Zone (AOZ). The current question will be answered by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis. Mr President, you have two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, I remember in 2007 - you were here at the time - screaming and screaming for the oil in the Aegean Sea. Unfortunately, for you and for your party, everyone was making fun of me. Everyone said there was nothing. We also had a Prime Minister, George Papandreou, who said there are no oil in Greece. We were right about that. Now I'll tell you what the Turks are looking for in Crete and Kastelorizo. It's good to hear it, Minister, so you know it, too. They're looking for hydrogens. The new energy weapon is called "hydrogen" and no one knows it in here. And because the EEZ has been constantly and is a crime that has been committed since the 1990s and then no government has ever taken responsibility for defining an EEZ, that is to say, that my acquis has a right to determine it. Because that's what this treaty says, that you're the one who defines the EOZ. I must also tell you that the country's problem with Turkey is the continental shelf. I understand that, we all say that. There are, of course, issues of a legal, legal nature. There is no excuse for the EEZ to do so far, but no government has chosen the right path of matching national sovereign rights and the EEZ to the 200 nautical miles. That's what had to be done. Why am I saying that? Because Turkey every day binds me to navtex and isolates Kastelorizo constantly. It appears that Kastelorizo is in the eye of the cyclone and is for many geopolitical and geostrategic reasons. The Attalia station a week ago issued illegal navtex for launching investigations within the Greek continental shelf. Look, Minister, descent is wrong. It feeds on Turkish chauvinism the refreshing attitude of our country to Turkey for decades. You must tell us today when this government, which is new, will determine the EEZ. I want a date sometime, day, date, time. In 2075? Let's talk about it. And I'm going to ask you a rhetorical question, because if I'm not mistaken, you stay in the southern suburbs: If he comes to Glyfada or Sunio near five, six or seven nautical miles, international waters and drills, will it bother us? Come on, for Mykonos, a lot of people will be bothered by me from what I know here. But I'm telling you about Sounio at seven nautical miles. They're international waters. In the sense of the Turks they have the right to make mining and research there too. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] Turkish-known Admiral Jihat Jajji said we need to unite the Turkish and Libyan EEZ. This is where the big festival begins, and because this is a very serious matter, Madam President, I request two more minutes. The issue of EEZ is important, it is a matter of national sovereignty. Listen: AOZ's proclamation is your issue, Greece, the government. No government has dared to do so, but it also gives rights to enclosed states. And I say that, Minister, because we will talk about Skopje soon. Do you know what that means? That the Skopje will have the right to Article 5 of the Interim and the Ambassadors' Agreement, to claim a way out from the City of Thermaikos and to have their own Exclusive Economic Zone or port authorities. We'll find that in front of us, too. But let's actually go. Here's why, friends and friends, they're claiming Kastelorizo. I'll just mention one simple thing to you. It's not just natural gas and oil, it's fishing. The Exclusive Economic Zone, Madam President and Minister, enables you to fish in the Aegean Sea as long as you like, without anyone doing any control and at the same time you will be the one to allow the Turkish fisherman to hunt the Greek for the cigarette in Imia. That means an exclusive economic zone. It means bottom, it means underneath the bottom, it means what's in the sea. With this sovereign right for our fishermen, for our fishermen - who in Imia, in Kalymnos, are chasing the Turks with their own ships - you give them the opportunity to be sure of what you are going to do. Make AOZ. I have three maps. I'll deliver them for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above-mentioned maps, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If you don't make an EEZ soon, we're gonna lose the Haftar case in Libya. If Haftar is lost, we lost AOZ with Libya. I'm telling you, because I know this very well. This map, do you know what it's like? What the Turks ask for. Honestly, you gave land for research, but you made it a card, you did it terribly. You only gave the Ionian Sea, because you are afraid to give underneath Crete, where Crete is Greek, which has Greek EOZ, which joins the EOZ of Cyprus. You have to give down here, because here are the hydrogens, Minister. As long as you let the Turks question the region - Gadus and the other islands - we will have a problem along the way. I want a date for when the government will determine an EEZ to help our fishermen. Come on, we didn't believe the oil.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. There is no doubt that the issue of EEZ is a very important issue. It is a weapon that our country has in its legal arsenal within all these difficult and complex relationships we have with our neighbours. Here, Madam President, and Mr Velopoulos, we all know that we do not have a neighbour with whom we have smooth and good relations. So any action by our side must be taken in the sense of a long-term relationship which must be improved in a spirit of good neighbourliness and respect for international law. It is true that international law has recently, particularly from Turkey, not been respected in any way. Her provocative attitude and actions in the Cyprus Exclusive Economic Zone are illegal and show the mood with which Turkey wants to see itself and behave as a turbulence, as Minister Dendias said a few weeks ago in the Southeast Mediterranean. I think that, first of all, we should see things calmly, because it is coolness that helps us make the right moves and at the right time, having shaped the framework of diplomatic relations and the legal background. The second thing I want to say to you is that even if the Greek Government had decided today to go ahead with a declaration by EEZ, I would not say this in this way and in the challenge "say to us day, hour, date" I would not answer because I would not deprive either of it or of future Greek governments of the right to negotiate and push through this use of this right. I would like to say something to you and we look forward to - and this will be seen within the National Council - to the foreign policy issues in particular with regard to Turkey not to be the subject of criticism and division, but to the Greek Parliament, as the Turkish Parliament does systematically show, a attitude of unity, expressing what is the feeling of our Greek citizens, that we support our national sovereignty in the sea, dry and air, we support the legal rights and bases that our country has in support of this sovereignty, and we are unanimously and consistently associated with the respect of international law, international legality and, of course, with the undetermined national laws. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In that sense and in that spirit, we will be the ones. And we will always be able to achieve one goal, how we will make Greece not only an oasis of security in the south-eastern Mediterranean, but also a strong, stable country that knows how to claim and grow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u5	Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u6	Minister, perhaps my intelligence index will not come near yours. Honestly, I didn't understand what you said to me. You talk to me about unity when you as government and the rest of the parties have not made a National Strategy Council. You are talking about Turkey, but Turkey has it. We do not have - we are the only country - the Defence Council. I am not talking about what the government does alone, I am talking about a national council where they will be professors, they will be heads of the opposition parties, they will be former ministers of national defence. So, what are you talking about? What kind of fellowship are you talking about? In order to discuss homogeneity, you have to tell us what you want, what is your red line, where is the tolerance towards Turkey, to the Ionian Sea, to Corfu? You tell us where we agree and where we disagree, because we don't have red lines. I agree with the view of Andreas Papandreou, when he said, "HOV". He said it because there was a deal. You know much better than me what Andreas Papandreou said. So to agree on something, but where to agree, what is the logic of the agreement? We are invoking International Law in the Dialogue of Athenians and Miles, Mr Minister, whom, believe me, I have read many times. And whoever didn't read him in here, I recommend reading him. There are no gods between the horns, no common languages, no common customs or fairness. Fair is with the mighty. And I want to say something else. You said temper. You know, I'm not cool. Cold blood has the snakes. I am a man and I have hot blood, and because I am a Asia Minor and my "friends" raped my grandparents and they did a lot against the Greeks, I will not forget one thing. If you remember in '12 what the vulnerability 'AVEROV' did, you will understand that if we give the Turks a real answer, real policy, and if necessary military, they will never step back into the Aegean, because they are the Turks. This has been historically proven. So we don't fool ourselves. You did not, of course, answer me about Libya. Okay, make EOZ south, Egypt, Libya, delimit there. Is this part of us, or is it just because it's Kastelorizo, we have a concern about whether it's or isn't? That's my question, i.e. I understand what your thinking is like. Of course, I will once again repeat the question: When will you define an EEZ? It's important. When? I'm not saying now. Say that this government is over and we go to elections will determine EOZ. Because, I repeat, it is also for our fishermen and it is not just for gas, water, oil. Leave this stuff outside, you've been afraid of it for years. I was the only one screaming in here most of you fooled. Don't give up on that. It's for our fishermen. You shield the Aegean for our fishermen, our fishermen. Do it for them at least. Especially now, something very simple has to be done because you all have a logic here, with which I disagree, that Cyprus is a separate state. No, it's not a special state! There is no separate state for Cyprus. It's Hellenism, it's Greece. See how the other countries treat themselves where they have their own "society", Turkishism, galvanism, with their colonies. It's Hellenism! The single defensive doctrine, if you want to talk about EOZ, must be done again yesterday and put it back into operation again. The single defence doctrine is a defensive doctrine and enables Cyprus to respond. Cyprus can't answer like this! Did we leave it and is Cyprus a long way? It's not far, it's close. So we did with Northern Epirus, so we did with Skopje, so we did with Eastern Rome, so we did with all Greeks. So don't leave Cyprus away from Greece. It's the mother of Greece and Cyprus is our sister. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] So there is an end to all these issues, as long as you have the will as a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u8	Madam President, I asked for one thing. This is the first time that we have been with the President in these positions...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u9	And we used to find each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u10	No, it is the first time in these positions right here that I answer you as Foreign Minister and you as a party president. Because anyway, we have a long relationship and we have worked together in these seats. I asked for one thing: we should not be separated from this, but we should be united by national claims and fairness. We will also be consistent in this direction. Mr President, I say this to you, Mr President, because I do not think you saw any distance from the Greek Government from its international claim for respect for legality, for the isolation of Turkey in all international fora in relation to the illegal drilling on the continental shelf of Cyprus, about how we managed it in the European Councils. After all, the Cypriot Government itself has so far welcomed the European Union's sanctions and assistance. And, in the light of the European Council at the end of October, the issue of Turkish provocativeness and Cyprus EEZ has already been raised on the agenda, but also on the Aegean Sea by working on immigration. Listen, you said it yourself, referring to the Mileon incident as Thucydides describes it. You know very well that what Thucydides describes is international relations under the power only of weapons, without the existence of international law, without the existence of international relations, without the existence of international diplomacy. It is the time to use international diplomacy and international law and all the means at our disposal. Because it is not always enough, Mr President, cannons or submarines or planes. And many times, unfortunately, these arithmetic correlations, regardless of the heroism and dynamism of the military personnel, are not always to our benefit. So we must make use of what the modern international environment gives us, which is international diplomacy, international organisations, the European Union, the United Nations and the whole framework of international law, so as to support our national rights and make our country even more secure and even stronger than it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. It will now be discussed, the second under number 5/11-9-2019, the second time question by the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group of the Greek Solutions and MP Larisi Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: 'Press Agreement'. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, will answer. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u12	I afflict you today, my Minister, but what should we do? The issue of Macedonia is particularly important, at least for me. Minister, I want to make a regression. On the day of the rally: "Today the Greek people have spoken and we should all listen to it, with Mr. Tsipras and the willing supporters of the Prespecies Agreement, who are preparing to vote without having any such command from their voters." One Minister of Government stated: 'The world expresses its patriotism and does not want the solutions to the name, which is a shameful and harmful solution'. It's only two statements. I think that's enough. What's changed since then? Tell me, what's changed since then when you brought people to the rallys? Because you, New Democracy, undergroundly motivated the rallys, regardless of whether you were at first against Mr. Mitsotakis. By the way, you called the world. He was there, your ministers, with the showers, with the blue-white ones, and well they did. Were you, too? Enjoy your parents. You did well, but you forgot about it in a few months. Why did you go there? To yell 'no' under the name 'Macedonia' and say now that there is nothing you can do? Why did you go there? What for? And let me accept that the agreements must be implemented, as you say. I should like to accept that the state keeps up with it, even though I disagree. But they have violated the deal more than fifty times. This agreement from the Skopje has been broken. And because I can't report fifty points on the violations, I'm going to testify in the Minutes all violations of the Prespecies Agreement. The Ministry of Tourism is called "Macedonian Ministry of Tourism". The volleyball team is called "Macedonian Volleyball Team". Their museum is called "Archeological Macedonian Museum". I don't understand. What's the matter with all this? I want to understand, too. If she's being violated, why don't you invoke these violations so we can cancel the deal? [[At this point the President of the Hellenic Solution, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'll tell you what I mean. Part One, Article 1: Presentation of the time limit for the completion of constitutional amendments on the part of Skopje, which should have been completed at the end of 2018. And they did not complete a referendum. We got it in February. So, just on this - there are others - our legal side can step on. And I don't say it. Ten major professors signed them and sent them to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister, however, curiously buried the matter. He buried it! [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] And I know why he buried it. Because Mrs. Merkel's mandate is a given one. I know the game in our area. I know that very well, because it's bad against our country, against Greece. And it'll turn out in the course of all that's going to happen there. There's another one, there's a lot of articles. Macedonia becomes "North Macedonia" except for Article 36 where it mentions historical and cultural heritage of the Macedonian people. That's what the Syrians agreed to. That's what SYRIZA agreed. And these disgraceful - as you said - today you say that we cannot change them, because the state keeps up! The state doesn't keep up with it. You're wrong. The state in national crime corrects the previous error by a national choice. He's complaining about the deal. Why? I'll explain in my denture a very simple thing. Now the problem begins. And if you can't - you may not be able to change the deal, why do you have commitments with Germany, America or I don't know what else - you know what our Constitution says? Refusal to elections on a national subject. Is this a national matter, the Macedonian, which for me is scum? It is! You go to elections, since you can't change the deal. We're going to election. Can't we? We're leaving. Let's go home. Why do you have to save and well press on the treacherous Prespecies Agreement and today do not speak at all? This silence reminds me of the guilty or the accomplice who doesn't speak or say nothing. All he says is he'll try. There's no effort here. And I'll prove to you in my dentistry that you can't try. I have evidence and you'll see them in a little while. It will either be abolished or dismantled, unfortunately, Macedonia from Greece with what you are doing. And we will not allow you to abolish - believe me - Macedonia from Greece, because I am Macedonian, like you half or 1/4. So since you're a Macedonian and blood flowing Macedonian, come with us, give us twenty signatures, see why Kotzias did what he did! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] None of you sign it! Why? You're Macedonian, sign with us. Immunity in Kojia? Where did the Loader take the millions with Soros? Do it! Here's Rhodes, here's Macedonia!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, I will stick to what you said at the end. Indeed, this agreement and the problems of this poor agreement now seem, now that we are trying to implement it. And we see them every day. If you have gathered eighty incidents, I will tell you that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is gathering much more every day, in which neighbour's state bodies seem to be systematically violating the Prespecies Agreement. I'll tell you today from Tokyo. It is an articulation of Skopje's extremist in Tokyo, in which he describes the nation as Macedonian, the relationship between Macedonia and Japan as satisfactory and so on. All of this every day we try and highlight and deal with it. Because some people say there is inertia in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I will tell you that only in the last week, there have been démarches, with very specific issues being violated by the Prespecies Agreement, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Skopje and the relevant agencies of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I believe that if there were any other government here today, if SYRIZA continued to rule, none of this would have happened, no pressure would have been made to eliminate all the alpha-corruption elements and all the elements of the neighbor's extremism. That's what we're trying to do. And when we say that the Prespecies Agreement must be implemented, we have not been in favour of a bad agreement. But we want the removal of all symbols that insult our historic heritage, which insult our Macedonian identity, and my Macedonian identity, to proceed quickly, because, as you said, I, too, am a genus of Macedonian, and which insult our history. What did we do with the Prespecies Agreement? What did the previous majority do, the strange one that was made in these chairs in irrational ways? He made our country lose its diplomatic weapons. He lost the interim agreement, which stated that in all international organisations the neighbour would be called the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and he lost the big negotiating weapon that was entering NATO. Today, and in the context of the slow one, which has not yet been clarified how it will be, we will constantly put elements through which we will want to improve this agreement between us. But today we will fight for its implementation so that they stop called Macedonians, stop saying their wines Macedonian, stop saying their Macedonian museum and finally get a North-Macedonian identity. And secondly, to stop the statues of the Greater One being called as they want to be called. It must be clear that they belong to the ancient historical heritage of the glorious great Macedonia. That is what we are trying to do, Mr President. And if you want to say more then, too, very gladly. But surely you know that we insist on what we were saying and on the eve of the elections and during the battles we gave Parliament last year against Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos and Mr. Kotzias, who together acted to complete this agreement, namely, "do not make our country lose so easily the diplomatic and negotiating weapons that it had won at the expense of thirty years".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u16	Minister, I still don't understand. I have a problem of understanding that seems today. I find it hard to understand what you mean. So you're saying you're going to fight for the Prespecies Agreement to change the bad terms. Isn't that what you said? I say to you: sign for Kotzia, let's see what happened with that story, and you tell me 'we'll fight'. We want twenty signatures from the New Democracy - we gave the ten - to see who's the moral autonicist of the deal. Because we agree it's a bad deal. Nobody says in here that it's good. It's bad, poor for me. Also, for me it may also be harmful national and so on, but I will tell you why you are doing it back, because you are hiding it, my Minister, as government. Because Merkel told you and said so just before you were elected:'Berlin hopes that the New Democracy Government will respect the Ambassadors' agreement. When the Commissioner says so, whether this is Piate or this is Merkel, when the people who control the country say so, dare and say that "the international factor..." don't say Merkel. We can say Merkel, because we don't have any dependence on her. Merkel, Piatt and all those walking around here constantly pushing you like Greece is a protectorate of the United States or Germany! I don't get it. Because Germany was interested in giving the name, we named it. No, it's not like that. Let's actually go. I agree you're racing. Have you seen this committee on school books, Mr. Minister, or Mrs. Zacharaki? It doesn't matter, you're government. SYRIZA put it on. There is a Mrs Ioannidou. Do you know this lady, Minister? In the committee that controls our school books there is Ioannidou - so they call it - who is Deputy Professor of Russian Language and Philology and Slavic Studies, and that will control the books of ours and of Skopje, ours mainly. Here's what he said: "Fantasy that Macedonia has always been Greek." I, as a historian, laugh at this statement. Macedonia has always been Greek. The odds about Bucharest are unscrupulous. So this lady, you put her in control of the books, and at the same time she goes to witness defense at the union "Kyrilos and Methodios" and says: "local language means Slavic and the locals have a Slavic origin". That's what he told the city of Serres. In other words, he's basically talking about a minority in Macedonia. And she'll check our books! And you even have it now and you tell me you're going to change the deal? Mrs. Ioannidou? I'm just telling you little things. You have, Mr. Varvitsiotis, Minister, your colleague, who said about a Macedonian minority in northern Greece, Mr. Skylakakis, whom I appreciate as a person, but he said it. You have a Secretary General, Sculco, who said the same thing. Am I? And you come here and tell me you're fighting for Macedonia? Throw these gentlemen out of the inside, and Ioannidus and the rest, to believe you. Minister to speak of a Macedonian minority, to say this a few years ago? And we have more to close down here. I was telling you about Article 5. You know what Article 5 of the deal means, don't you? That had to change yesterday. This article you know what it says? That they have the right as a enclosed state to come from worthy and have port facilities in Kalochori, the Thermaikos Gulf. Look at this, Minister, because from the interim agreement you carry this. Unfortunately, you carry this from the interim agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u17	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u18	Yeah, but it had to change. Change it! Will we see Skopje ships in the Thermal Gulf? Christ and God bless you! In conclusion - I apologise, Madam President - I shall say this. You have loose ends - it says - for trade names and marks. If you read the agreement, my Minister, because you are feeding a fairy tale into the world, that, you know, with accession negotiations we can veto. Can you veto? Oh, no. Your Minister's answer is that you cannot even stumble on entering NATO or the European Union. Can I tell you why? And don't rush to answer me. I'm asking about Albania and the same story they used to tell me in here. Why don't we stumble in the funding of Albanians, why are they smuggling, why did they murder Katsifa, why are they buying property? Do you know what your ministry tells me? It's yours if I'm not mistaken. It says that the programmes and actions of the beneficiary countries are approved by the responsible IPA Committee, which shall act by a majority and shall not require unanimity for the adoption of programmes, thereby excluding the possibility of exercising a veto. In Albania we cannot put the veto right. Why are you telling us you're gonna put in here now? Or here's something wrong or you're lying to us now. Decide. Can we get a veto? This will be written in the Minutes. Minister, you will be exposed. Can we veto it, yes or no? I'm telling you no. Here's the answer from the Ministry of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u20	To lose all diplomatic weapons, Mr Velopoulos, I have never seen him in this Parliament! We have the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u21	Recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u22	...and what you are talking about, to understand and those who see us, is a decision on pre-accession funding for 2018, which was taken unanimously. The country did not react to Albania's pre-accession funding. This does not mean that unanimity is not needed at the conclusion of the negotiations on individual accession funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u23	I can hear that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u24	Record it. You are aware of the circumstances. Now we're going to something else. Complaint or not and why the New Democracy does not denounce this agreement. I'll read to you what Mr. Mitsotakis said here because you blame us for bilingualism. You are accusing us on the nationally-democratic side of bilingualism and the Left of its own internationalist concept of bilingualism, that we now like the Prespecies Agreement. We used to say one thing from the beginning. We said, as Mr Mitsotakis said in Parliament, that if the Prespecies Agreement is ratified, it will not be cancelled. Because if it's cancelled, Mr. Velopoulos, you're telling us to change an article into an agreement...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u25	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u26	You told us 'why do you not change Article 5 of the Agreement?', which comes from the 1995 Interim Agreement and states that we will be able to give the enclosed state rights of access to the sea.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u27	Oh, good! That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u28	Sure. And that is an obligation under international law. Mr. Velopoulou, we need to make something clear in this Chamber and make it clear in our conscience. International law is nothing more than a card. It is not that there is a provision I like, that I agree with, as far as I are concerned, with the continental shelf, with the rights that I have at sea, in air or on land, and I do apply these rules, and there are other conditions and other provisions of international law, which I do not like and do not apply them. We as a country, not today, not with the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, but over time, centuries now, are defending international law. And we defend it, because it is fate in the difficult neighborhood we have been born and we are at the crossroads of cultures and interests to defend international law and its unreserved respect. So, within these principles, we warned the government that sat here and with very slight heart, set up committees, to review our school books, even though they have no evidence of mutilation, while they have not yet moved on to reviewing their own and dismissing the negotiating weapons and making this agreement strong in both its signature and its ratification, and this agreement has produced international results. So now we have only one way to go: to implement these forecasts of the agreement, which you see very difficult to see, our neighbours are moving forward and very well, because it is precisely the elements and points of the agreement that hurt them a lot more and we are trying to do what we can do better, to make use of our position within the European area, to press for the individual improvement of the agreement, particularly as regards the protection of our products and businesses, of course, the protection of our national heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Minister. Before we move on to the next question, you will allow me to announce to the House that on 23 September 2019 the President and Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group tabled a proposal for a law: "Decree of impunities - Facilitation of the exercise of the right to elect the Greek and Greek voters outside the country." It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We will continue with the first with No 17/17-9-2019 topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To implement the swimming programme implemented in primary education, in a way that meets the needs of the students as a whole". Mr. Synthraki's question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, the bathing programme for primary education started piloting four years ago. While it is characterized as a compulsory lesson in which schools were implemented - because it did not apply to all - it showed major and serious shortcomings and gaps in Athens, Achaia, Thessaloniki, Crete, many regions of the country, thus verifying the gap that separates the design of governments from the real needs of teachers, parents, students mainly and gymnasts. It is not enough for a mere ministerial circular, i.e. simple instructions to seafarers. If these problems are not solved this year, sooner or later the programme will be dismantled and it will lead to a complete failure, unless this is the ultimate objective of exempting governments from the costs of implementing such a programme. First of all, as it applies today and as determined by the present circular, yours, three days ago, is not about covering the entire student population. It is limited to Class III and in some cases to Class III. But we know that learning can and must start from the age of three to four. There are loose ends, such as the question of the transfer of pupils to and from the swimming pool, the lack of staff and much more that, if necessary, I shall refer to my second language. We as a Communist Party of Greece consider swimming to be a very important need for these young ages, related to their physical and spiritual development and to their security. Our country is raining everywhere from the sea and drowning exceeds three hundred a year, with a large percentage of some -50% - of children aged between four and fifteen years who are drowned in swimming pools or open seas. Perhaps this year this Circular of the Ministry was sent earlier to the school administrations - I told you: three days ago, i.e. last Friday - but in itself it does not say much. The question is whether and when it will be applied for all schools, fulfilling all the conditions. Last year this programme became completely unjustified to be implemented in the last week of April with one circular in October. You brought it in a month earlier. If there are no conditions that I told you, however, it is likely to start at the end of March. So he has no reason to start a program toward the end of the school year. It is preferable that the process of preparing for approval is completed at the end of the school year, so that the program begins at the beginning of the new year. So we ask you a very simple question: What measures do you intend to take to solve all operational problems, the early start of the programme, including all schools and covering all the needs of the students? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u31	We too, Mr. Comrade. Madam Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Syntagakis, we are grateful for the opportunity to come here today to discuss this problem, which is a problem when the circular is actually being sent late. You have noted, and thank you for the point you made, that this time the circular was sent a month ago. Was it the perfect one? I'll answer you: No. We went to the ministry of 9 July - you know that very well - and in this two-month period we tried with all the forces to put priorities on all the issues that were outstanding, there were as omissions. Without any opposition I came to tell you this, but more to give you and those who listened to this timetable which was very important to be covered. We have not left this issue aside. We put the question of swimming as a priority with the Directorate-General together, with the aim in common, to be able to compare, if you like, with this bet of time and next year to be able to come and tell you this. "Yes, Mr. Synthraki, we sent the circular at the end of the previous school year. We started in time with the beginning of next school year and we were able to cover more children." How are we going to do this, Your Honour? We will achieve this by being able to simplify the institutional framework, which is particularly complex. You are right that many times it can also work as an anti-professional for an IP11 teacher to participate in this program. Of course, as far as school life is concerned, a school can make its programming. So I give you two commitments today: the circular will be sent earlier, just as you rightly said, at the end of last year. And we will simplify the institutional framework so that it is an effective circular, which will facilitate the implementation of the programme. Our goal is one of the forty-seven thousand forty-one students of three thousand-four thousand-four thousand six hundred-sixty-two schools that were involved to be able to come here next year and tell you that the number was multiplied and we will set even higher targets than we have been doing for the implementation of the program. That's what I had to tell you in my prototype. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u34	I would like to remind the Minister that the content of the circular is exactly the same as the content of the previous circulars. It's not differentiating to anything. Admit what he told us. We keep that much more time, that is, by the end of the school year, this circular will come out and prepare. It will, however, remain pious if we do not see any fundamental issues and conditions for the implementation of this programme, because the substance is there. It's not just on the date of the Circular announcement. So I say that, firstly, learning should start sooner and cover all children with proper programming. The delayed start of the project results in two quarters and not three quarters, as planned. That's what matters. Most schools report participation during the second or third quarter because of the weather, since many swimming pools are open and are particularly difficult to swim in younger children. In any case, the shortening of the programme may constitute a step towards a definitive reduction in its duration. Secondly, the transport problem needs to be solved - you did not tell us anything about it, which is a key issue - to and from the swimming pool, without the cost being calculated. This is a prerequisite for all students participating, i.e. schools which are not close to swimming pools to participate in the programme. It could be possible in a town. Maybe it's not always, but we're talking about most students. Another question is what happens if school is not near the swimming pool. In Heraklion, for example, there is a unique, in very poor conditions and in absolute conspiracy. So it's this one swimming pool. Most children are being pushed to the clubs, paying handlessly and while at the same time the harness for the maintenance of the swimming pool, since state funding has been dramatically reduced, as has emerged in the last two, three years. In Heraklion - you know - the administration imposes - this was done on SYRIZA - the head as entering the swimming pool, except for the monthly payment of the Association. You as a New Democracy continue to do so. Another question: Where are the children in the hinterland going? Will they go to the village star and swim? Therefore, it is also clear here that there must be new infrastructure and procedures for the construction of swimming pools, so that there can be access. This does not simply depend on the will of the region or the municipality. It is the state that has to plan and, above all, finance the implementation of this programme from the state budget, with everything it entails. Third, who's charged with the kid's equipment, like the uniform, swimming glasses and the other equipment? Parents are charging him. In fact, for many people’s families these are forbidden to send their child to the swimming pool. This has become an extremely expensive sport. Fourthly, the children not participating in the programme, where are the rest of them in the swimming pool? They're broken down into other classes? They're staying at their house? Do they lose exercise hours? Who will answer these questions, if not the government itself? And we should, of course, give solutions. Fifthly, we need to resolve staff issues. Such an important programme and time-consuming recruitment procedures cannot be carried out by mature people. There is a need for permanent scientific staff with qualifications and training at regular intervals in learning techniques, with full working and insurance rights. There's a question if the class will do it as a gymnast with a swimming specialty or any gymnast. The former TEFA, prescribes a gymnast with specialty. But a appointed trainer with no specialty, to respond adequately, must know from a lifeguard anyway. Even so, the appointed trainers are few and the subject is difficult and it is no coincidence that many trainers do not declare themselves to go. They're not saying that. And let us have an age limit. So, the other guy who's fifty years old can get into the pool with little kids to learn? This is a question, if you like, which needs to be taken into account. In any case, if we want to talk about school sport, about mass folk sport, it is essential that everything I have told you, so that the foundations can be established for students to acquire swimming education. It can't be parents' individual responsibility. If all of this is to be overstated, I can tell you that in the countries of the present socialism, these conquests have been valid as a social asset and even a free right for all the children of the people, like education and health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u35	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u36	Mr Papoutsis, there are obviously these insights and anything you have proposed today. Of course, I would point out here that bathing coordinators have been designated and that bathing coordinators will in any case be added by region. Secondly, I would like to remind you that the transport issue has to do with the region and construction is obviously not the responsibility of the Ministry of Education and could not be solved within three months. I know you're talking about good news, and I'm talking about the possibility. So because it is wishful, as I said, to raise children, it is not just a timely circular mission, which we came to say today, 'We sent it a month ago'. We note, however, that it took place a month ago. It is also the simplification, as I have said, of the institutional framework, making it effective at the same time so that it is desirable, as you rightly pointed out, for teachers to participate in this programme. I also repeat, because it is not that we throw the ball of responsibility elsewhere, because it is very important and you said it again: Transport is therefore up to the region. We call it valid and coordinate all ministries together. And I give you a new one, that along with the Deputy Minister of Sports, Mr Aughaki, and the relevant Ministry, we are planning a memorandum, so that what you are asking us today, and you are doing very well to ask us, can be applied globally and more easily and with the help of the Ministry responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u37	Thank you too, Minister. You will allow me, here, to inform the House that the second question under number 16/17-9-2019 of the First Cycle of the Parliamentary Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas, to the relevant Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To continue the operation of the Municipal Library of Rhodes through its staff", will not be discussed due to a blockade by parliament. Also, the first question under number 10/17-9-2019 of the First Cycle of the Congress of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vassilios Vassiliou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "National policy for the book" will not be discussed due to an impediment by the relevant Minister. We are moving on to the last timely question for today. The third question, with number 19/17-9-2019, will be discussed in the second time in the Greek Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece, Giannis Delis, with the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "For the problem of housing and the building of new outbreaks". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, you would say a lot of things today that are the obstacles to studying a child from a poor or a people's family, and certainly one of them - and, indeed, great and topical these days - is the problem for anyone who is in a town away from home. I am, of course, talking about the question of residence, student residence. The cost of rentals is high, tall sometimes and often, especially in areas of tourists in our country, which happen to be enough, it is also forbidden for students from these peoples, poor families. We are, of course, talking about student rents. We are not talking about student care, because whether students are simply nonexistent or their number is not enough for the needs they need to meet, and even those of them who exist and operate are constantly downstairs and are, you would say, in a very bad and bad situation. Some examples are enough. At the University of Polytechnic, for example, from the fifty applications that have been filed so far only seven are the rooms. That is to say, seven of them will be satisfied. At the university hall of Athens from the three hundred applications, the rooms are only twenty. In Thessaloniki for the four hundred applications that have been lodged so far, the empty rooms are only forty. For Thessaloniki, we will give an extra element here. Only 2% of the city's students - and there are several tens of thousands of students in this city - are staying in dorm rooms. In Larissa, from the two thousand first-year students of the University of Thessaly, only a hundred will finally be housed in a dorm and they will also pay over a raffle of 150 to 400 euros. At Volos' home, only forty single rooms operate, but these, Minister, concern only first-year students, the first-year students, who, at the end of their first student year, deliver them to the next year's students. Overall, I think that the element that exists and is official is that only 9% of the student's needs, that is, the homes, are covered by the existing ones. Needless to say, it is completely inconsistent with the needs of students, which, of course, is constantly degrading because of the ongoing underfunding, while at the same time opening up the way for different contractors, both in housing and in feeding and in other activities. We have also recently heard from the government today, the new government, which has, of course, continued the same policy as the previous one in the field of education, and public and private partnerships in the field of the construction and maintenance of universities. In any case, in order not to get far, I will begin first of all with the hope that the Minister said first. These requests, you know, Minister, were desirable six years ago and seven years ago and ten years ago, and I fear that if this policy continues, and after ten years you will be able to say that they are. We are talking about it immediately and necessary. That is, to build them now, finally start a study project, so that the student does not spend a single euro in his pocket for sheltering him for feeding him. Because you want us to tell you some direct requests, so listen. One example is for all students to be subject to PPC’s social tariff for electricity. Here is a proposal, for example, which will ease a little and reduce the cost of study. Also, no student home will pay municipal fees in the city where this child is studying. These are just a few requests - we have to say - to reduce the cost of study. And, of course, an even more immediate and necessary step, I would say, is a direct substantiation of hotels. There are too many such in all the cities of Greece. I will tell you in my dentistry and some examples. In other words, I will make more specific proposals for Thessaloniki, so that thousands of students, especially the first-year students, who are in a marathon, can finally find a home so that they can study. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u39	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Delia, I will answer what is possible within a term of office. As you will know, the Ministry of Education in a letter signed by the Minister and I have in the most official way launched a dialogue with the academic community, with all the academic communities. This dialogue is taking place within the framework of the forthcoming legislative initiative on a legislative framework for higher education. There is therefore a special theme on the question of the housing and the feeding of students. Our desire is with the academic community to form a better framework for the benefit of students and by extension of their families. The state obviously has an obligation to provide the resources to the students in need and we are not going to dismiss this role. Our actions are coordinated in order to achieve the most efficient and better needs of students. At the same time, however, we must provide that legislative framework, so that through and from our position on self-government at universities we can give them access to alternative and additional methods of funding. Such alternatives, beyond state funding - which I would like to point out again, will not shrink, the opposite - are also the PPPs, and especially with special care for regional universities. And since you have said so in your protology, we must not be so fearful about shapes that can provide additional solutions for the construction of new studies. The PPPs do not imply a deterioration of the outbreaks, the quality of the benefits for which you are concerned. In terms of costs, we are talking about social infrastructure projects with availability clauses, so that the state and universities will be accountable. We consider the recent interministerial decision on PPPs to be positive, which is planned for the implementation of student centres at the University of Crete, both in Rethymnon and Heraklion. We're talking about three thousand student rooms. You know it was a very recent decision and today I contacted the administration of the University of Crete and they informed me that next month, in October, they are going to proceed to tender. As a dean of the Polytechnic University of Crete within a term of office, I and my colleagues did the studies, we sought funding through both the Public Investment Program and the European Investment Bank, and there were competitions, and today students are housed at the University of Crete. This is social sensitivity and this is an upgrade of student care. So the issue here is how we can proceed more quickly in the construction of new outbreaks. The PPPs are a tool that can help in this. The PPPs do not accept any known changes in the initial costs - cost overruns - the payment starts after the delivery of the project. Through the long-term contracts we can ensure something even more important, how to maintain, so that we do not have the phenomena that are presently observed at the outbreaks. So we are not talking about substituting the role of the state, we are talking about involvement of other ways and other tools to achieve the goal, which is to increase positions in the student homes. You were right to point out in your question that especially in tourist areas and elsewhere the phenomenon of Airbnb has created several problems for students to find a home on a reasonable, economic basis. So that's been bothering us since the first days we took over the administration of the Ministry. We have two-level initiatives. The first level, the medium-term, concerns the permanent housing of students in new outbreaks and the upgrading of existing outbreaks. And the second level, of course - for immediate relief - is the grant of the housing allowance of EUR 1,000, which of course continues. Finally, I would like to inform you that EUR 40 million has been entered in the 2019 budget for family support with students who are studying away from their residence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Secretary, I think your answer was interesting and, above all, revealing. You have confirmed - I am sure - what we have said about further commercialisation in the field of education and, more specifically, in the field of higher education. You have, of course, spoken at the beginning of a debate on the legal framework that your government will bring, which will include - we do not question this - and provisions on student accommodation and, of course, you have also used, like previous governments, the idea of the university's self-employed - the word'self-employed' may not be the most practicable, but in any case - which is being exploited so as to relieve the State of its obligation to be the sole funder of education in general. I would remind you that this obligation is not just a moral obligation for the state but is a constitutional requirement of Article 16 of the Constitution. Of course, how much this applies to life itself and how free education in our country is is something that the people's families know very well, who are literally differentiated in order to study and educate their children. I think the key phrase you used, Mr Minister, in your reply is the words 'alternative and additional funding resources for universities'. That's what he says. What do you confess to that? State funding will remain reduced and will likely be further reduced and will be attempted by universities, as will the school units, to get to the point of funding, to seek donors to meet their needs of operation. Here comes the phrase "public-private partnerships", the PPPs, and you have confirmed that this is how we will go from now on. But you know, Minister, in the field of education the PPPs have already been tested in schoolrooms. The result is that the school buildings erected by this method had at least twice or even three times the cost that existed before the School Buildings Agency. That's not what we say. They are told by the workers themselves at the School Buildings Agency, in the Building Infrastructures, as they are now called. And, of course, the private contractor, who will take over such an eruption of student restaurants, will do so not, of course, to offer the students, will not do so from a good option, but will, of course, do so, to gain business gain. That's his target. This gain will come out of the students' pockets. I don't know where else he can come from since the state won't pay. In Crete, of course, the problem is particularly acute. We had the fire at the dorms last year. I repeat that the method of public-private partnerships as a response to the problem of student and school housing, I think it means even greater commercialisation for students and students and their families and, of course, an even greater cost for the state. I should like to take this opportunity to mention two - three examples of how much they could be exploited. I told you that I would mention it and ask for your tolerance, Madam President. In Thessaloniki, the property of the university lies a beautiful building - and indeed in an excellent place, on Niki Avenue, in the beach, namely Thessaloniki - the so-called Mandalidios Megaros, which could well be used - it is also a multi-story building - with the appropriate adaptations, of course, as a student accommodation area. What does your government choose to do? What does the ministry choose to do? Give it to a private person in order to build a luxurious hotel there, because our country as known tourists is being upgraded! But I'll tell you there's another building in Thessaloniki. It's on Egnatia, number 13. This is a building for the Ministry of Education, near the Bardaris area, a multi-storey building, and that, with a relative renovation, could be exploited and re-entered for hundreds of children. You don't choose that. It's still closed. It really ruins there as it is. And you choose the PPP method, so everyone can draw their conclusions. They will also take off students and make sure that, while you do not respond to these pressing needs, their struggle will strengthen and their struggle will satisfy this immediate need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u43	We too, Mr. Comrade. You close, Mr. Undersecretary, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u44	I said it in my prototype, I have to repeat it. Our intention is not to cut expenditure on education, to the contrary, and so we are not talking about replacing the public investment programme with something else. We are talking about additional funding so that from the percentage of students who are staying today at home we can, in a reasonable period of time, go to a percentage, as they did at the University of Crete. There are things you said. The self-employed of universities is guaranteed in the Constitution if I'm not mistaken. And public and free education does not mean that universities cannot seek any more resources. This is where you're wrong. I will close by commenting on the last example you said, with the example of the building in Thessaloniki, because I had a corresponding example in Chania, the University of Crete. It has the Polytechnic building a history, neoclassical, in a tourist area, which, in order to preserve and renovate it, should spend about 10 million euros. And if he used it for homes - because this proposal we had then heard in the administration, something similar to what you said about Thessaloniki - we would house in that building forty students with a cost of EUR 10 million at the most tourist point in the city and ten kilometers away from the campus. What did we do? We have chosen these EUR 10 million to give them through the European Investment Bank and the Public Investment Programme to build two two apartments, where four hundred students will be housed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-23-S1-commons.u46	With the consent of this House at 19.15' the sitting is closed next Thursday, 26 September 2019 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
