ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 13-12-2019 authorisation, the Minutes of the Bureau of the Council of Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Friday, 13 December 2019, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Consolidations of the Ministry of National Defence and other provisions’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Resolution of the State Budget for the financial year 2020’. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state budget will be held in accordance with Rule 123 of the Rules of Procedure within five consecutive sittings. The speakers will be registered with the electronic system by the end of the speech of the sixth Secretary-General and a single list of speakers will be drawn up. The sequence of speakers will be defined in the context of the speakers' circles. I propose that following the speeches of the general and special rapporteurs to be completed today, there should be a first cycle of speakers with speakers from each parliamentary group. In other words, we will, as a priority, have six alternate Members, one of each of the six groups. Then, as far as possible, I propose that a single list of speakers, including all Members registered with the electronic system, should be drawn up. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the The circles of speakers will be as follows: Each cycle will consist of twelve MPs, that is, six MPs from New Democracy, three MPs from SYRIZA, one MP from the Change Movement, one MP from the Communist Party of Greece. The twelfth speaker, who will complete the so-called twelve cycle, will come from either the Greek Solution or Mera25 alternating ones, in order to ensure that the two smaller groups are present at more meetings than those that would appear if they were represented in the first cycles. It should be noted that this proportion will be maintained until the number of parties registered, which means that in the last few de facto cycles the rotation will be limited to the largest parliamentary groups. The speaking time of the Members will be seven minutes for everyone, as will those who have a priority - I stress it - speakers. Changes in the order of registered speakers should take place only in exceptional cases with the approval of the Bureau, by means of a document from the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Group addressed to the Bureau, and with the need for mutual change by the end of the second sitting, that is to say by Sunday. We will make every effort this year, as we have done in recent years, to speak as many colleagues as possible. This will be possible if we all limit ourselves to the time we are entitled to, and if our meetings start at the very time that has been set on the agenda. That is why I stress, ladies and gentlemen, that time must be strictly respected and the start of meetings should take place at the time that has been planned. All subsequent meetings of the next few days, from tomorrow, will begin at 10 a.m. and will be completed no later than 12 o'clock at midnight, obviously without interruption. I propose that the speaking time of the general rapporteurs should be twenty-minutes, of the special rapporteurs, of the Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and of the Prime Minister of 30 minutes, of the Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and of the Chief of Officerial Response thirty-minutes, of the Chairmans of the Parliamentary Groups of the Change Movement, of the Communist Party of Greece, of the Hellenic Solution and of Mera25 twenty-five minutes, of the responsible Minister of Finance twenty-five minutes, of the Finance Ministers responsible for the other Ministries, ten minutes, of the Deputy Ministers of the other Ministries, eight minutes, of the Secretarys of the other Ministries seven minutes in analogous application of Articles 97 and 123 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Parliamentary representatives shall be entitled to speak for twelve minutes, however, if the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups are precedented, otherwise they shall be confined to the time of the second reading, i.e. six minutes and three minutes of the third reading, in accordance with Rule 127 paragraph. PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The speaking time for speakers on the list will also be seven minutes, as I mentioned at the beginning of the proposal. Finally, I propose that today's sitting ends until 12 o'clock. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u2	So the House unanimously agreed. The general rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Manosos Voloudakis, is now being called to Stepma. Here, Mr Voloudakis, you have the floor for twenty minutes. I would ask that the document system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget implements the policies announced in the election campaign, they have been voted in favour of the Greek people and are now being implemented. It reflects an economic policy based on philosophy completely different from that prevailing in the past four years. It is based on the belief that prosperity will return to the country when domestic and foreign investments are mobilised to create new jobs. The long-standing crisis has left a huge investment gap. Gross fixed capital formation in Greece amounted before the crisis to more than 20%, while after 2010 it fell to nearly half. For ten years we have basically been investing every year. Where we are, we must speak clearly and do so accordingly. To cover the colossal investment public, our place must be very, very attractive to investment. In all the world's lengths and backs investment is attracted by the prospect of profitability. We must therefore remove the obstacles to this prospect with respect, at the same time, the rights of workers and the need to protect the natural environment. The core of the ideas that guide the economic program of the party that governs is complemented by the need to extend a protection net for the weakest financially. This net of protection is a moral obligation of the state. It is still necessary because it promotes social cohesion. In times when we live, with the multiple threats to our country, the nation's survival requires, among other things, the bridging of as many breaches as possible of society. At the same time, social policy, the lower income protection net also makes economic sense. Strengthening the purchasing power of financially weaker stimulates domestic demand and thus increases growth dynamics. The policy pursued since July 2019 aims to attract investment in a number of measures falling within the following broad categories: reduction of taxation, removal of regulatory obstacles to entrepreneurship, activation of the public investment mechanism for infrastructure improvement. This policy has already begun to bear fruit. More important evidence of this is the yield of the Greek government's bonds, a sample of the country's enhanced credibility today. The Greek 10-year bond of March 2019 was issued with 3.9% return. The same bond in September 2019 had a yield of 1.5%, a fall of 2.4% in six months. Often the Qualifying Opposition attempts to present this reduction in interest rates as its own success, especially as a result of the existence of a liquidity pillow, which it has created and which I shall analyse elsewhere in my speech. However, from March 2019 to September of the same year did not change the amount of the cash reserve. The government has changed. This change, therefore, has brought the confidence of the markets and has led to a reduction in the interest rate of bonds. The same picture of gradual recovery shows the economic climate indicators of IOBE over a high decade and the upgrading of the national economy by ‘Standard and Poor's’. The financial and macroeconomic data for 2019 complement the positive picture. The primary surplus in terms of enhanced supervision is estimated for 2019 at about 7 billion or 3.7% of GDP. To achieve the objective was neither a given nor a simple one. The budgetary gap inherited by the previous government was 396,000 for 2019 and a 1.050.000 for 2020. The gap was created mainly by policy measures announced by the SYRIZA government with obvious political objectives. The new government has managed to fill the budget gap without canceling any of the essential measures to strengthen citizens' incomes, which the SYRIZA government has literally taken at the last minute. On the other hand, the Government of New Democracy has taken additional measures to alleviate taxes and increase incomes by extending them to all away from divisive logic. A characteristic example is HISBIA. For this tax, the SYRIZA government planned a 30% reduction only for the lowest step of property, and this, of course, after four and a half years of tax raid. With the law passed a few weeks after the elections, this relief was implemented, but at the same time there was a reduction in the coefficients for all tiles, progressively falling, with a final reduction of 22%. The same is true of the adoption of tax provisions a few days ago with relief for everyone, as well as the distribution of the social dividend. In the achievements of the second half of 2019, the removal of capital controls should be added, the regulation of the hundred twenty instalments for outstanding debts, both natural and legal, as well as the repayment of the exact International Monetary Fund loan with money raised from markets at a much lower interest rate. The policy of the second half of 2019 was indeed a different policy from the direction taken by the previous government in the policy of surpluses. The overrun of the four-year SYRIZA reached 11.4 billion. This money accumulated the public by removing it from the market, from society, from the public. To understand the size of the excess, one can see it so: Overrun is equivalent to about four annual total revenues of ENPY. Four improper ENVIRONMENTs were collected on SYRIZA. This has had a dramatic impact on GDP, but also on long-term growth prospects. When and on what basis did the SYRIZA government decide to go beyond the goals of even those of its beloved enemy, Symple, the targets for the surpluses they called a few years ago "blooded"? They claim they needed the surpluses to build the liquidity cushion for debt repayment and thus be able to go out on the markets. By what calculation, however, did they end up reaching this pillow of 35 billion? Did they not understand that if the pillow is built strangled on economic activity, does it ultimately undermine the very objective of guaranteeing the country's worthy? How did we get to this point? After great mistakes in the calculations, ideological obsession with over-taxation, based society's division policies. In any case, the reasoning must be explained by those who designed and implemented this policy. Until this is done, let us stop the misleading tactics of many of SYRIZA's colleagues presenting the liquidity pillow as some kind of dowry left to us by the previous government and supposedly we have a policy today. This money was committed by the previous government alone for repayment of the debt. We have them, and it's like we don't have them. Let us now get to the basic budget figures. The shortest no-number summary of the 2020 budget can be made by a proposal. The objective of the primary surplus is achieved by reducing the tax burden on natural persons and businesses without, at the same time, reducing funding in any policy area. How, at the same time, these to some extent conflicting goals are achieved? They are achieved, firstly, because, with GDP growth, which already brings about a change in the policy mix and an improvement in the climate, given the tax rates yield more revenue, secondly, because the tax base is expanded mainly through electronic transactions and, thirdly, because the individual budgets of the bodies of the General Government are streamlined. Let's look at the basic sizes a little bit later. For 2020, the primary result of the General Government in terms of enhanced supervision is projected to be 7.070,000 000 euros or 3.58% of GDP, less than the contractually anticipated 3.5% for security reasons. This result is achieved while new interventions of a development and social nature amounting to EUR 1,81 million are being implemented. I would remind you of the most important: the reduction in the tax on natural persons through the reduction of the tax rate with the overall benefit of the taxpayers of EUR 281 000 000, a reduction in the contributions of full-time workers to the total benefit of the workers of EUR 123 000,000, a reduction in the tax rate of the company's profits for a total of EUR 541 000, a suspension of the VAT on new buildings at the cost of public revenues of EUR 26 000, 000, but a multiplier effect for the market and citizens, aid of EUR 2,000 for each child born at a total cost of EUR 123,000,000,000. In order to achieve the intended surplus, a number of measures are also being implemented to improve the budgetary result overall - also about the same amount - EUR 1,188,000. I would again mention the two most important ones: the revision of the expenditure ceilings by the Ministries, which brought about EUR 500,000, 000, and I will analyse this very important parameter, and the broadening of the tax base by extending the electronic transactions of EUR 557 000. The budget is structured on an estimate of GDP growth by 2.8%. It is a slightly more optimistic estimate than the European Commission's latest estimate, which provides for an increase of 2.3% for 2020. The forecast growth rate in 2020 reflects the dynamics of all components of domestic demand that are adequately documented. That is why the forecast GDP growth is optimistic, but also feasible. The total state budget expenditure for 2020 is projected to be EUR 57,163,000 - I am ending with the many figures, I will not tire you - increased by EUR 772,000 compared to the corresponding estimate for 2019. It is clear that rationalisation and the householding of public finances are not at the expense of public policies. Public goods continue to be provided at the same broad level of expenditure with a focus on the qualitative upgrading of the services provided and to the maximum possible use of the resources available. The Government carried out a thorough review of the Ministries' expenditure with a view to rationalising them in general, and in particular to discovering and abolishing fictitious expenditure which constituted the basis for the creation of surpluses. In other words, to date, the Ministries have budgeted some expenditure, which has never been implemented. However, in order to finance these expenditure, taxes were normally collected with the so-called review of expenditure, which is included in this budget. This irrational practice ends definitively. To close my reference to public expenditure on budgets, I would like to make a special reference to defence expenditure. This expenditure is provided for in EUR 3,4 billion slightly increased in relation to the 2019 budget. I would like to appeal to the Vice-Presidents, especially to colleagues in the Officerial Representation, to revive an old tradition of our Parliament, which our group generally respects, when it is in Anti-Population, the tradition of exceptionally approving the expenditure on defence, even those who are voting against the budget. It will be a move that is of particular symbolic importance in the days that we live, in the days when Turkey is directly threatening our sovereign rights. It will be a message, first of all, to those who guard against the sky, the waters and rocks of the Aegean, a message that we are conscious of their sacrifices and that we unite them. We have many other areas to conflict with democratically and to give the people the opportunity to judge who is right and who is wrong. In the critical times, however, the heart of the nation must be beaten in this Chamber. Let's prove it. I am going back to the strict economic issues with reference to the Public Investment Programme. The total cost of the Public Investment Programme of EUR 6750,000 is allocated among the projects to be co-financed by the European Union amounting to EUR 6 million, 000 000, and those to be financed exclusively from national funds of EUR 750,000. In relation to last year's programme of the same amount, a transfer of EUR 250,000 000 is implemented from the national part to the co-financed, as this mobilises corresponding European resources, creating a financial benefit of around EUR 170,000 000. And, of course, this government will fully implement the Public Investment Programme and will not use it to strengthen the colossal reserves, as the SYRIZA Government was aware of last year. It is important that the profits of the European Central Bank and the central banks of the Member States, which are returned to Greece, SMPs and ANFAs, be used for public financing. These profits will reach a total of 5.1 billion by 2023. Obviously their exploitation will completely change the public investment data in the country. In the last Eurogroup's conclusions, we have already had a positive reference on this issue, but also the release of a dose of 767 million, a result of the systematic work of the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakoura and his staff. Allow me, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Government and Mr Ministers for Economic and Infrastructure, to make a special reference here. I believe that the first priority for making use of this money should be the work of the North Road Axis of Crete, the greatest shortage in the network of national infrastructures. The money from SMPs and ANFAs creates a new unforeseen public funding for the BOAK. The opportunity has emerged and Crete cannot wait any longer. Speaking of the budget, we must also make a brief reference to subsequent necessary steps. I will only refer to some of which can be summarised in summary policy proposals. As regards the overall productivity of the factors of production, the main obstacle to the long-term economic development of Greece is the low overall productivity of the factors of production, especially in terms of labour productivity. Greece is in the forty-fourth place of work productivity between forty-six countries measured by the OECD for the period 2000-2016. The outsourcing of high-level young people obviously reduces the overall productivity of the labour force. Demographic developments are added to the explosive mixture to further reduce the country's development prospects. Immigrant life with low skill levels does not help to strengthen labour productivity. It is financially wrong to see that the influx of a large number of low-skilled migrants will have positive economic effects due to the increase in labour hand supply. The aim in Greece is precisely the opposite, jobs and the strengthening of the skills of the workforce. Industry's problems, energy costs and depreciation: The government has already done a great deal to remove an important category of obstacles to industry by reviewing the general licensing institutional framework. The next steps to strengthen processing must focus on two objectives, lower energy costs and facilitate investment through and more rapid depreciation. The cost of energy in Greece is significantly more expensive than in Europe's average, especially with regard to industry. The report of the fourth assessment of the Greek economy by the European Commission explicitly states that in Greece wholesale electricity prices are one of the highest in Europe, with EUR 65,5 of the EUR 42.3 MWh in the European Union on average. In order to reduce the cost of energy, conditions really need to be created on the free market in electricity, which at present does not exist. Depreciation: In Greece in the years of the crisis we have led to an increase in the years of depreciation of investments in mechanical equipment in ten years, which is one of the lowest depreciation factors throughout Europe. IOBE in a recent study highlighted the fact that the introduction of more rapid depreciation increases investment and ultimately does not reduce tax revenues in the long term. I'm presenting the relevant quote to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Manosos - Konstantinos Voloudakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Agricultural problems: Our agricultural and livestock products are experiencing difficulties in international competition because of the high cost of production in relation to those of the major competitors. Often, however, they also have very high quality, which they cannot commercially exploit because of a lack of network or know-how. It is a typical example of olive oil and milk products. There is no point in us trying to compete with low-cost countries. Strategic planning is needed to enable primary products to be promoted with the identity of high-quality products, where this is, of course, a reality. In this direction, the use of these products by our tourism industry can help. The state cannot, of course, impose anything in this direction under free market conditions. It can, however, draw up programmes financed by the Structural Funds that will support the transition to the production and marketing of branded quality products from the primary sector. With regard to the expansion of the tax base, the taxation of immigrant income, a large pool of potential tax revenue remains unexploited. I am referring to migrations from migrants to the outside. Today there is the possibility that anyone who wants to transfer money abroad without giving their tax information, simply showing their identity or passport. This is done through the special companies that have been developed for this purpose with shops now in each city. Payment institutions are called, according to the terminology of the Bank of Greece. Today, then, one - foreigner or not - can work in Greece - legally or illegally - and transfer the money he earns abroad without ever being controlled by tax. This immunity is simple to stop, provided that the rule is imposed on the transfer of money abroad through the payment institutions to require a statement from the VAT office along with the data on identity, as is the case with the banks. Subsequently, AIAE will be able to sample. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need one more minute, Mr. President. The transactions of Greek citizens through banks are now strictly controlled. It is neither fair nor effective to monitor intra-country transactions from transfers abroad. Talking about the budget, there is usually emphasis on the country's prosperity during the year under discussion. But today we are at a turning point. We cannot confine ourselves to the debate on short-term prosperity. It ends for our country a period of economic decline that lasted years and begins, as everything shows, another period of positive progress. This budget is the first of this period, the first government of New Democracy to Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. This budget implements a strategic and long-term economic effort. In the years of the crisis, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the economy that has been hit. Every aspect of life in our country has been affected, the institutions, education, social education, the possibility of our nation's own survival, as we know it, since the crisis has exacerbated the already acute demographic problem. Today the recovery of the economy is a prerequisite for the regeneration of the nation. I would urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u4	SYRIZA's general rapporteur, Mrs Catherine Papanatziou, has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the second budget after the end of the budgetary adjustment programmes and the first budget after the memorandums with the Government of New Democracy. I would like to begin by asking the following question from the New Democracy rapporteur: After you found a budget gap in July that you received, how did you legislate a reduction of EUR 200 million in the URBAN immediately afterwards? It is one of the questions put to you by the Vice-Presidents. You were also asked a number of important questions in the tax bills and in the meetings of the budgetary committees, questions that need a reply from the government majority. Avoid answering and clarifying your intentions and your political speech is exhausted in the phrase "we are chosen by the people, our programme has voted". Ladies and gentlemen, we respect the popular will. But until when will you use this fact as a political adversary, deceiving Parliament? And after all, what are you trying to tell us with your attitude that an elected government should not be accountable for anything and nothing? The 2020 budget must be examined during this period, a period that finds the Greek economy growing. Let me remind you that ELSTAT just last Thursday revised the development of the first quarter of 2019 from 1.1% to 1.4% and the second quarter from 1.9% to 2.8%. The current social and economic framework, therefore, has been shaped since August 2018 after the end of the programs and suffocating restrictions they have brought and is the achievement of the efforts of the SYRIZA Government. The achievements of your own efforts in the past few years cannot be forgotten. With your policy, you exacerbated social inequalities, cut wages and pensions twice and three times, and what did you achieve? Excesses agreed in 4.5%, empty funds and a broken social state. In particular, we had a fall in GDP of 25%. The proportion of the population living in poverty was 44.3% in 2013 and 48% in 2014. Unemployment reached 26% in 2014. Private sector wages fell by 15%, and wage cuts, if we add up to 60% of horizontal cuts in the public sector. You have received from the SYRIZA government a country with regulated debts, full of funds, with EUR 37 billion reserve, with foundations for social and social policy, with reduced unemployment, reduced poverty rates and hope for a better tomorrow. You yourself, in the preliminary draft budget you have presented, are celebrating SYRIZA's policy in the field of the economy. Now, after the end of the memorandum, you are trying to take advantage of SYRIZA's economic policy, not for the benefit of the social majority, but by applying the same policy that led us to bankruptcy. You have electionally raised the tons for overtaxing the middle class, with the twenty-nine unjust taxes of SYRIZA. You've probably forgotten who legislated the majority of the taxes. Our government inherited them, along with your licensed funds. Today, after your election, you are reconstructing the same argument. But, ladies and gentlemen, why in your budget are you including all these infamous twenty-nine unfair taxes? The SYRIZA government left a financial space and reserve. So why don't you reduce them? Why don't you reduce the trade fee, as we planned, giving professionals breath? Why don't you reduce the tax deposit permanently and firmly? Why don't you reduce the solidarity levy, as we have announced, by breathing to the social majority? It was your governments that introduced some 70 billion euros of measures and it is your government today that is not interested in directing the benefits of the recovery of the economy to the social majority. It is no coincidence that of the twenty-nine taxes you keep intact twenty-eight and you choose to reduce to only one, that of the taxation of legal persons. Let us look at the cost of this measure. Reducing the income tax on legal persons from 28% to 24% costs the public 541 million euros, while reducing the tax on distributed profits from 10% to 5% is costing 75 million euros. To say this more simply: you are providing reliefs of EUR 616 million to businesses, with growth pretext. For 60% of enterprises, however, which have no profits, there is absolutely no benefit. Nearly 80% of the benefit from the reduction in the rate will be fruited by about six thousand businesses, with some of them gaining more than 7.5 million euros annually. The way money is given, therefore, you don't call it developmental. You are budgeting an extension of EUR 1.2 billion, and your tax bill finds tax exemptions for the few. So who will bear the cost? We have also told you during the debate on the tax bill: the vast majority of employees, pensioners and farmers are the great losers. Let's talk in clear words sometime. Where the money will be directed after the end of the memoranda, as well as the kind of country we wish to build, after a hard ten-year adventure, is just a political option. Your political choice, ladies and gentlemen, is clear from the budget you have presented to us. Greece of tomorrow, as you call it in your bills, and as you see it, is a country of tax haven for big businesses, capitalists and real estate investors, but unhospitable for the large social majority, since the country's economic recovery seems not intended for it. So, in particular, what do we see in your budget, which you have drawn up - I would remind you - at the current juncture, with a net budgetary area and after the end of the memoranda? The most aggressive annual project of public property deprivation by the GOI, a plan confirmed by the Minister for Development and Investment in New York, stating that the government's appetite for privatisation and sales is huge and every month that passes becomes greater. We identify an excessive reduction in the category of goods and services, including, among other things, the purchases of medicines and vaccines, the purchases of writings for students of educational establishments, and even the purchases of heating fuels. We find that huge sums are budgeted to almost every Ministry in a new category entitled 'complete coordination'. You do not explain what kind of category this is, where these amounts are directed and for what reasons. I would remind you that you have already charged EUR 40 million with the budget with your final state. We can't track down the discount for agricultural oil anywhere. We don't locate a budget for the heating allowance. We do not find the amount that will ultimately be made available - if available - for barren lines and for equivalent transport. Mr. Placiotakis was committed to increasing the amount of funding for the barren lines to 140 million from the Public Investment Programme. In your budget you approve EUR 136 million for barren lines. However, no code appears to be available for the second year of universal application of the equivalent of 157 million. So you do not explain whether the transport equivalent will be abolished or less money will be paid for the barren lines. We identify a new code at the Ministry of Shipping under the name "Management of Refugees" of EUR 2.6 million. You do not explain what is going to be financed with this amount and with what procedures. We find a reduction in welfare expenditure, 61 million less. We are detecting a decrease in the state grant to EVA, EUR 475 million less, which confirms your position to deterioration the public social security system. We do not see any concern for a social state and a social policy. Further, with various alchemys, proceed to covered cuts. Indicatively: the budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is unchanged in the amount of EUR 62 million to grant free movement, but we read in the explanatory statement that you will streamline the policy of free movement, thus saving EUR 5 million. What does this rationalisation of free movement include? Restriction of the beneficiaries maybe? In the Ministry of Education's budget there is no reference to the appropriations for the implementation of SYRIZA's five thousand two hundred fifty recruits in general education for 2020, and a reduction in appropriations of vital importance for the financing and operation of schools and universities is also apparent. The budget for the Ministry of Civil Protection provides for major increases for workers. Please note, however, that in offices of Ministers, Deputy Ministers, Secretary-General and Secretary-General. Significant increases in the same categories of workers are foreseen in the budget of the Ministry of Culture. The government's presidency is more than three times the cost of all services and units in the Prime Minister's office in 2019, 9,485,000 in 2019, 30,271,000 today. In the Ministry of Education's budget we find no credit for the implementation of the SYRIZA Ministerial Council's act of hiring two and a half thousand doctors and other health personnel. On the one hand, you do not see any relief for the large social majority, you do not take care of the social state, education and health, and you pay particular attention to saving money through cuts in social expenditure. On the other hand, the money available for most of you are directed towards tax exemptions from large companies, large shareholders, and you share large sums of money among the employees in offices of Ministers and State Secretarys in the staffing of the presidency of the Government. In short, you are subsidising all the small countries you have created with public money. The only measure that you incorporate in the budget and has social resonance is the grant of a 2,000 euro allowance to the new families for each child born. Even so, you are bringing it into the flat, since the money you have, the 123 million in other words, is enough to cover only 71% of the families. Ladies and gentlemen, with your tax bill and the budget you have tabled, you are taking back one by one of your election commitments. You spoke about support for the low and middle layers, and the only support you offer is to the few and selected by means of cross-border tax evasions. These reductions will be indirectly called upon to cover the natural persons, which is, of course, confirmed in your budget, as income from the personal income tax is estimated to increase in 2020 compared to 2019 in excess of 323 million, while revenue from the income tax of legal persons is estimated to decrease by 446 million. Tax relief of low and middle layers, while increasing revenues from taxation, seems to be a form of oxymolymer. So the big losers from your budget are the medium-sized enterprise, the middle-income is the middle-income. You spoke of transparency and rationalisation of the public administration and its costs and you appoint your own people without the necessary conditions, while you are being donated to those who work for you at the offices of Ministers and State Secretarys. Only the presidency of the government costs the Greek public 30 million. You abandoned your rhetoric to reduce the primary surpluses. Let us note that we could have additional positive measures of EUR 1.8 billion for permanent tax relief or social benefits if the New Democracy went ahead with the SYRIZA plan to reduce the primary surplus target from 3.5% to 2.5%, based on the special reserve that we inherited to you at EUR 37 billion. You have abandoned your commitment to reducing the EMSDDA to 30% and you do not even budget for 2020. With this year's popular reduction of HNVO from 200 million in total, 100 million direct them to the richest 3.5% of the citizens, while taking back the part of the benefit of 2019 as the value of the property will increase by 142 million euros by integrating new areas into the system of objective identification. You abandoned your rhetoric for growth at 4%. You were limited to 2.8%, using creative accounts to get out the numbers and to bridge your election over-populations with the hard economic reality. If we leave aside for a moment the fact that your predictions are over-optimistic and do not share with international organisations and the Eurozone, we will see that you have actually abandoned and made your commitment to increasing the minimum wage to twice the growth rate. So since you're predicting growth in 2.8%, gentlemen of the government, why don't we find nowhere to increase the minimum wage by 5.6%? Unfortunately, in your budget you do not mention anything about this commitment, of course not in your public speech. Ladies and gentlemen, your first budget, after the end of the memoranda, is deeply ideological and neoliberal. You think that, if high-tech taxes are reduced, flexibility in the labour market is intensified and labour costs are reduced, growth will increase the cake and the conditions will be created which may benefit medium- and lower-track. But this recipe has failed miserably. The only realistic prospect is fair and equalised growth, raising economic and social inequality, protecting wages, protecting the environment, with a social state, with proportional taxation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The SYRIZA administration has promoted interventions that facilitated the control mechanism, boosted stable employment, reducing unemployment to 16%, while also stressing private consumption, as you agree with your budget. Also, under government SYRIZA investment, public and private, in research and development, reached 1.13% of GDP in 2017, 2.1 billion euros, when in 2011 it accounted for 0.67% of GDP, 1.3 billion and in 2014 it accounted for 0.83% of GDP, 1.4 billion euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u6	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u7	I conclude with your tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u8	No more tolerance to keep time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u9	Unfortunately, in today's budget there is a cut in public investment in research. We have spread a safety net to the most vulnerable, with provision for social income in solidarity, housing allowance, an increase in the minimum wage by 11%, a abolition of your own underpaid wage for young people and young people and cover our uninsured fellow citizens in the ESS. Faced with the pursuits and pressures for the creation of the credit line, we handed over a security account for the Greek economy of 37 million. In short, our strategy was aimed at stabilising the misappropriated economy for the benefit of society, that is, a weapon for reducing inequalities and not an opportunity for benefits to the few. We are, of course, voting against the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u10	I call on the general rapporteur of the Change Movement, Mr Kostas Scandalidis, to step up for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, as has been the case for a long time now on all the major issues that have been dealing with the country's course, the opposition of the Government with the Anti-Civilisation is exhausted in physicist and senseless divisions. The government has long been claiming that with its options in the 2020 state budget it marks the beginning of a new era for the country. The Civic Opposition, while claiming that the government accepted its own government choices and implements predated decisions, denounces it as classic and neoliberal. They may change the positions of rapporteurs and ministers or parties at the wheel of power and return numbers. In the real economy, however, the so-called "numbers prosper, people are unhappy" also has power today. The market is growing, banks are still booming in growth, taxes are still depleting incomes, people are unhappy. And the one who loses his home in an unreasonable and unjust auction, and the in vain attempts to keep his business open and the one who does not have to pay the small instalment for his loan and the one who cannot meet his basic living needs are watching a government that on the same canvas gives benefits, divides, entertains impressions. The conclusion is that the government has changed, but economic policy has not changed an antenna. The same moving idea, the same choices, the same perception, mere corporations of numbers and percentages in a identical government budget structure. The aim is to balance revenue by integrating the benefits, namely the ones that constituted the great penny for votes in the last elections for both SYRIZA and the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u12	Please everyone who wants to talk out of the Chamber. Please be very quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u13	The 2020 state budget, gentlemen of the government, could well be a state budget of the SYRIZA Government. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all talking about development, about the great modern vision. We agree on comparative advantages and sectoral and sectoral priorities. We all now accept the need for investment and the role of healthy entrepreneurship. We are all sworn to the blow of the paradox and bureaucracy and the need for productive reconstruction. But what, in practice? It goes on - to use an older neomarxist term from the theory of dependence - prevented growth. What prevents growth and hence the relaunch of the economy? First of all, it prevents the heart of dependence, the high primary surplus, secondly, the counterproductive and anti-developmental management of available resources, and thirdly, the reproduction on the most unfavourable of all the structural characteristics of the state that constitute the pathogenesity of our state and its delay and raise unsurpassed obstacles. The first, gentlemen of the government, you have not negotiated it, you have referred it to the bells. The second one didn't bother you. You're continuing on the folded one. For the third, despite the opposite declarations, you deny any substantial structural changes that would give other steps to the development process. Let me be a little more specific. In terms of surplus to reach 3.5%, an increase of EUR 960 million is foreseen, a reduction of EUR 500 million in the Ministries, a reduction of EUR 307 million following an assessment of EUR 307 million, an increase of EUR 330 million in tax revenue, an insurance contribution of EUR 140 million, an increase of EUR 557 million, an increase of private consumption of 1.8% and a reduction of public debt from 173,3% in 2019 to 167,8% in 2020. I am convinced that at the same time achieving all these objectives with the current state of the economy belongs to the area of imagination. It's impossible. It's the historical experience. Since 2015, the surpluses have proved to be inconsistent. In 2016, with a target of 0.5%, it reached 3.71%. In 2017, with a target of 1.75%, it reached 4.14%. In 2018, with a target of 3.57%, it reached 4.16%. For 2019, the primary surplus is estimated to be 3.73%, while in 2020 the primary surplus is projected to 3.58%. A simple addition proves that from 2015 to 2018 cumulatively, an anaemic economy was bleeding about EUR 22 billion, while on the basis of budget levels, surpluses would take away by 2020 another EUR 14.1 billion. That is what the European Commission says, which does not accept that growth will exceed 2.5%, because it knows about history and figures. In 2017, the execution forecast difference was -1.2%, in 2018-0.6%, in 2019-0.7%. In its report, it calculates in 2019 1.8% GDP growth and 2020 2.3%, largely behind the actual target, from the nominal target that you set, which you know what 0.1% difference for Gross National Product is. The increase in private consumption on the Greek Financial Council is over-optimistic. Electronic transactions have a high degree of uncertainty. Approximately 30% arbitrary. And, of course, the decline in debt is really laughing because, when 2019, it was predicted that from 180.4% it would fall to 167.8% and it resulted in 173,3%, the figures shown in the budget are unrealistic anyway. What, then, is the political conclusion? The almost certain impossibility of achieving unrealistic objectives. It is very likely during the 2020s, in particular during 2020, and in particular towards the end, that new taxes should be imposed. I would also like to make a comment on the election cycle. You know, an early election campaign is not just the intention and design of a Prime Minister. It is sometimes also the result of the deadlock created by its policy. As far as the management of available resources is concerned, the Public Investment Programme remains a reduced and quantitative stand at EUR 6.75 billion, as well as in 2019, which in relation to GDP means a reduction from 3.5% to 3.4%. The very low, despite the declarations, absorption of European resources leaves EUR 19.5 billion indisposed until 2022, which, in the current structure and pace, is impossible to exploit and absorb. The use of public property, a potential development resource that could be a direct and potential support for growth, has so far had no role to play. I am not referring, of course, to the supply of unconditional public property to foreigners for the next 100 years, but I am talking clearly about the development of this property, because the proceeds from sales and concessions are not even distinguished from collecting, let alone by developmental targets. With regard to structural changes and the removal of obstacles, despite the opposite statements, the centralised and bureaucratic model of the state is supposedly being reproduced. Here is a conflict, the neoliberal dignity is beset by customer practice. There is still a lack of liquidity in the market, as the financial system crisis is years old and is depicted in the relationship between loans and deposits. The weakening and marginalisation of development institutions by expanding power concentration for the sake of alleged effectiveness does not actually allow regional development, which is now more critical than ever. And you will ask me: 'What would you suggest?' When the country came out of the acute phase of the crisis and was blocked by agreements that in fact constitute conditions of deprivation and suffocation, it was, above all, required to obtain the necessary oxygen to shape the conditions of relaunching the economy and to make the necessary development leap. To breathe the economy, there had to be a renegotiation at the beginning of the primary surplus and a reduction from 3.5% to at least 2%, in order to create the necessary financial space for growth rather than the bleeding of resources from the real economy, in order to save resources, both at the development and at the social level. At the same time, the existing resources had to be integrated into a medium-term development plan - which is lacking - with clear objectives and priorities to strengthen the country's productive reconstruction and regional structure, which requires reorientation and redistribution of resources. The strengthening of the Public Investment Programme is perhaps the most crucial factor in the relaunching of the economy, because it intervenes decisively both in investment and in attracting private capital as well as in expanding employment. Especially in the first phase, and until they give rise to foreign and domestic investments - which you are doing so much and ask for - and the more general mobilisation of the private sector, the role of the Public Investment Programme is crucial. Equally crucial is ensuring market liquidity through institutional and legislative interventions that guide the country's financial system. The HERAKLIS project is a simple aspirin in our banking system. The removal of obstacles requires a decentralised and decentralised state, which grants decisions, procedures and development plans in the region. And of course, for years we have all sworn that the country needs a brave tax reform and a stable and agreed tax system with a decade's horizon, and none of that can be seen as your legislative initiative on taxation. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time, however, this budget extends social inequality, goes on to further tax bleeding and with benefits without any objection. It is clear from the figures in the budget that medium and low incomes will support, for another difficult year, the achievement of the surplus of 7,000,000. It is clear that the tax latitude continues unsatisfactory, despite the allegiances and the galantoma policy of the EUR 416,000,000 dividend from the surplus, compared with the SYRIZA's 971,000, the famous thirteenth pension. What specifically does the budget provide for EUR 733,000 more taxes for 2020, compared to the 2019 estimates, while companies will be reducing income tax by EUR 446,000. Greek consumers will be charged with an additional 638,000 euros of VAT and 88,000 euros of excise duty. Greek taxpayers will pay an additional 323,000 euros in income tax and 84,000 euros in real estate tax. Meanwhile, the most important indicator suggesting social inequality, the relationship indirect to direct taxes, is not taken care of. On the contrary, there is constant deterioration. In 2014 this ratio was 1.15, 2019 is estimated to be 1.42 and for 2020 to reach 1.46. This is a rapid increase in indirect taxes, which affects, in particular, small and medium-sized incomes, the most unfair - if you like - a policy that could be implemented at this critical stage that our economy is going through. At the same time, instead of upgrading expenditure on the social state, grants, insurance funds, hospitals and the wider social policy are being reduced. The result is a social budget, which is literally unequivocal to needs, and which is contrary to the governments' majesty. Finally, what constitutes the extreme limit to social inequality is that there is no, even fundamentally, concern for private workers throughout the budget. They are first in the consequences of the crisis and last in the reductions today. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget submitted by the government is more widely foreign to the challenges of the time. The budget of number-sharing and unwitting management of the existing situation is out of the international environment, does not budget the possible consequences of developments, does not propose alternatives, does not protect the economy from external factors. It is not only the fourth industrial revolution or the climate crisis dictating a particular model of development, and so it is clearly involved with budget figures and resource orientation. There is also the dismantling of international trade, the instability in energy and oil balance developments, the impact on the economy of unfavourable forecasts on the possible new realisation period, the forecast to tackle natural disasters, which are increasing annually, and, above all, the management of the growing flow of migratory and refugee flows, which intensify the demographic problem. Not only are these issues not even the issues in the report, which are completely absent, but they also constitute and impose specific choices, objectives and priorities, which have been incorporated organically into the budget structure and guidelines. A number of security controls relating to the country's overall course should therefore have been provided for. The absence of an integrated plan is obvious. We would expect a ready-to-be new government, which aims to turn the country back, especially at this stage of the threats and challenges it faces, to appear in a radical mood, to bring about a structural change in the logic and drafting of the budget. 2020 finds the country with another government, which, despite its declarations, is moving in the footsteps of the same deadlocked policy. The state budget, which is the roadmap for this path, the only real legislative initiative that has to be followed by the country, is another unrealistic, without a plan and vision of change, a stranger with the need for a new development dynamic and with choices that increase social inequalities and injustices. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time of threats and challenges, in order to find development aid, this country needs vision, design, profound changes and overthrows. Does it require a governance that is aware that, in order to upgrade Greece to the European and global map, it must become one of the most extroverted, competitive and dynamic knowledge economies - does not tell us anything about the model of Estonia, Finland and other countries, which have, in a very short time, exploited their human potential to reach the stage of development at a very advanced level? - a country capable of combining self-instrumental and sustainable development with the production of new wealth and fairer distribution, as well as fair and proportionate burden-sharing, with full employment policies. However, in order to achieve such a great goal, a radically different concept and development strategy is needed. It is necessary for the regions of the country to acquire a name, to stand up to competition, both domestic and international, and this, in turn, requires the maximum possible mobilisation of productive powers. We are not spared by any production power, from the smallest, and therefore we need a different state, which is becoming a navigator and not an adversary to development, a real revolution and a redesign of the state's formation, which should start from the base and above all by generous decentralisation of governance, which dismantles the composition of powers and interests that have been installed in the centre and creates the various establishments which we all accuse and want to destroy. That is why the problem of development is mainly a problem of democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Without the state reconstructing, the high growth rates are just a genocide. Such a change also involves another budget, a budget which does not focus on the endless codes, on the basis of which the administration of the centre in the region is legalised, the enforcement of the executive power in the representative institutions is legalised, the state is being enforced to the defenceless citizen. It requires another allocation of resources, brave decentralisation of governance, regional reinvestment and balance of the wealth produced, a different regional budget, which must come here to be approved by the National Delegation expressing all the regions of the country. If development choices and their respective powers, in an integrated economic administrative form, are not attributed to the institutions that will bear the burden of growth, the mobilisation of productive and creative potential, we are simply building on sand. However, all of this, ladies and gentlemen, is not possible for the narrow heart of today's bipartisanism, whether maintenance serves or antisystemic populism. It's a matter of really progressive governance that the place needs. It is clear that we are voting against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u14	Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, the general rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. One might wonder what the state budget is. The state budget is nothing but a tool, the basic instrument, for implementing the economic policy concerned. It is a tool for redistributing part of the socially produced wealth. With the State Budget for 2020, despite the fact that the government has changed, the SYRIZA Government has passed through the Government of New Democracy, despite the fact of the formal exit from the Memorandums, we see the Government of New Democracy depositing a state budget which is the same, similar to the state budgets submitted by the SYRIZA Government. There's nothing different. It's no different. And it could not be done otherwise, because of course the state budget for 2020 must respect specific commitments, the memorandum commitments. What are these commitments? It is, first of all, budgetary commitments, that is to say, it must achieve primary surpluses of 3.5%, the 'blooded' primary surpluses resulting from the bleeding of the people's strata, and, secondly, it must fulfil the objectives identified and set out in the medium-term Financial Strategy Programme 2019-2022, which the Government of SYRIZA submitted. This policy therefore comes to be implemented by the New Democracy Government in the year 2020. The main question that needs to be answered is - because we are talking about economic sizes - the state budget from whom it gets - has the revenue - and to whom it gives. So let us look at a little more detailed than who gets and whom the state budget gives, so that we can define its character as well. With regard to the revenue side, the newly adopted tax reform of the Government of New Democracy is reflected. Where does this tax reform lead, based on the budget? It leads to an increase in the total tax revenue by EUR 750 million. The question arises from where this increase in tax revenue arises. Sources are very clean. It results from the anti-grassroots, unfair, indirect taxation, whose revenues are increasing by EUR 638 million. It results from an increase in the revenues from real estate, i.e. from ENPIA, despite a 22% cut, as a result of a change in objective values. Finally, it results from the increase in income from the taxation of natural persons by EUR 423 million, rather than, as the Government claims, the reduction in the tax rates for natural persons. So, of all people, does the budget get? No, the budget's giving some people. This is the result of the only category of tax revenue that you are reducing, that is to say, taxation on legal persons. Of course, under this covert title 'legal persons' I also include micro-enterprises, up to the very large, multinational chains which have tax bases in our country. What does that show? It shows that we will have reduced revenues by EUR 446 million from the taxation of legal persons, which is a total tax revenue, which is less than 7%, despite the fact that they will have increased profitability. So the only beneficiaries are the large business groups, which will have even less participation in tax revenues, and, in fact, this is achieved under scandalous and provocative tax conditions which have large capital, and in particular some of its parts, such as logistics, in avoidance of tax avoidance, by exploiting tax havens, triangular transactions and a number of other beautiful tools. Conversely, on the other hand, we do not only have an increase in the tax burden that people will bear, but we also have a continuation of the conditions for reducing their income, whether they are employees, whether they are retired or self-employed. We have further commercialisation of health and education. We have increased the fees paid by the municipalities to compensate for the reduced state contribution to their revenues, which in return is nothing but taxation, but which is not taken into account in the central government's aggregated tax tables. Thus, the figures are confirmed and revealed, that the tax system created by the New Democracy is even more unfair and even more anti-grassant than the previous ones, and it could not be made any different because it is part of the logic of tax competition. And the more effective it is for attracting investment, the more unfair it is for the people a tax system, as it comes out of the various studies that have been done. And at that level, SYRIZA's stumbled-up continued. The reduction in business tax rates, the reduction in the tax rates for the distributed profits started by SYRIZA and the New Democracy completes them. But one will say: “Okay from revenue we cannot do much. Is the picture different from the costs, and through the distribution of expenditure, benefit the people's layers, the people's family?' The answer is very revealing here. Let us dial some indicative figures. Health expenditure decreases and decreases by EUR 182 million in total in both the State budget and the Public Investment Programme, i.e. by 4.5% compared with 2019. In fact, in what conditions are health expenditure reduced? In conditions of enormous lack of human resources, doctors, nurses, in conditions of collapse literally of public hospitals. We have a further reduction in the total pension expenditure by EUR 192 million, 121 million from the main pensions and 71 million from the supplementary pensions. We have a freezing of benefits at the same level as in 2019, as far as public sector workers are concerned. And we have a freeze of expenditure on the same level for education, which is very specific here, with enormous shortages in staff. Therefore, not only do you not give to the people to alleviate the social needs that they have, but on the contrary, further aggravate the situation, taking into account the government's acceleration in public-private partnerships, which will further accelerate the commercialisation of social needs. And of course, on the other hand, we have in the state budget accelerating privatisation. More than 2.5 billion is estimated by the government to be the revenues from privatization and divestments of public property. To achieve these objectives now, we have a series of budgetary interventions. So the financial area resulting from the surplus, i.e. overtaxation, from the people's death, is EUR 1.2 billion. You are giving EUR 616 million to businesses and EUR 123 million to reduce insurance contributions, so to worsen the position of insurance funds and to promote reinsurance overturns. In other words, 62.9% of all budgetary interventions go to the benefit and to serve the aims of business groups. So what do we got here? We have a cannabis redistribution from the people, i.e. the government takes it from the people, to give it to the business groups. That's not all. Moreover, with other interventions, there is an increase in revenue of EUR 557 million through the coercive use of electronic markets, which should reach 30% of the income for people's households, so that they can establish dutyfree and not pay 22% of the cost. So what the House's Scientific Service itself has taken as an anti-constitutional measure leads to the cracking of the self-employed, works for the benefit of the banks through which the plastic money passes. e-commerce therefore works for the benefit of large chains, companies, which increase their share even more. And one will wonder here: 'Okay, the budget is specific. The government didn't have much flexibility. Is it right, however, and is it right that through the growth that brings overall with its economic policy will social welfare for all, we will have growth for all of the people?' So let us look at this particular argument a little more thoroughly. What do we have on one side? On the one hand, we have with all previous legislation that the government should provide land and water for the needs of attracting investment, for the needs of business groups. The Development Act provided further tax and financial incentives for investors for new investments. It even abolished these minimum restrictions on the protection of the environment and public health. It goes on to grant mountainous tumors to the coasts and the cavalry. It accelerates public-private partnerships, so greater commercialisation. It has promoted a tax reform which scandalously reduces tax rates in business groups, which is, of course, a process under way, because the government's objective, as has been quite clearly said, is to reduce the tax rates of business groups even further. He proceeded to the project 'HERAKLIS' to shield the banks from the red loans. And here, of course, either there will be a risk that the 12 billion state guarantees will be transferred, if the project fails to succeed, to the taxpayers' backs, or, Minister, we will be able to eject the auctions and the evictions, so that the project 'HRAKLIS' can succeed. Because this is based in particular on the successful liquidation of the high-security housing loans. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] All other parties to the debate in the House talked about how the banks would be saved and how the people would pay, whether as a taxpayer or as a borrower. Only the JRC dared to say that they must pay for the red loans themselves by investors and the major shareholders of the banks, so that the people could be relieved of their obligation to the banks. No other party dared to take such a position. And we have the government claim that, through investment, new and better paid jobs will be created. However, this argument of the government is being crushed by reality itself. Tourism, which did not meet a crisis in previous years and had continued growth, not only did it not create better jobs, but instead it formed an even more labour-intensive jungle with fourteen different collective agreements, by intensification of work, with black-working, delaying of workers. These conditions were created in tourism. On the other hand, this government's fairy tale is crushed by government policy itself, when the government comes with PPC law and creates conditions for worse jobs for PPC's new entrants than those that exist for PPC's already employees. So, with legislative intervention, it creates even more negative ground for the new jobs that will be created. So while, on the one hand, it gives all of it to capital, on the other hand, what SYRIZA's government left from labour rights and did not have time to break it, the New Democracy now breaks it, with the substantial abolition of sectoral conventions, with the fundamental control of unions by the State and the employer, by the e-mail, through the reduction of so-called 'non-wage costs', through the new overturns in the insurance system, the strengthening of capitalisation and the facilitation of private insurance. What's the result? We will not say this on the basis of the JRC's assessment, but on the basis of the assessment the government itself makes in the State budget report. What will we have for 2020? We'll have an increase of 1.2%. But in what circumstances will we have this increase? In conditions of 2.8% GDP growth, which leads to substance? More and less of the pie than the new product and the new wealth produced goes to the workers. It is even smaller when the increase is 1.2%, while overall the wealth created is 2.8%. So it is not enough that we have had a very large reduction over the past decade, as well as losses that workers had over 25%, today, in conditions of growth, we will have an increasingly smaller piece of pie going to them. So we have the confirmation that we have an unjust development which, of course, is directly linked to this unjust growth and is on the other side of the coin on geostrategic upgrading, that is to say, the effort and pursuit made by the bourgeoisie to gain an ever greater share in the wider market, so that there is financial penetration of Greek businesses in the wider region. It is a purpose that is directly served and interacts with the ‘USA’, imperialist designs in the region. That is why the Government of New Democracy continues its policy of signifi­cant US and NATO government of SYRIZA, which is why our country's involvement in these "American", imperialist designs by converting it into an infinite field of firing, which has not only prevented, but also enhances Turkey's aggression. Thus, the hypocritical role of the US, NATO and the European Union, which, despite their declarations, continue to be played with Turkey, because their interests, military and economic, are very great in Turkey. Along with the reassurance that has been systematically cultivated by previous governments, the myth that we have the solidarity of our allies. Through this overall climate and the lisverism that is being done, what is being prepared is the co-management of wealth in the Aegean Sea and the Eastern Mediterranean, especially in the Aegean Sea between Greece and Turkey. This is a process which has started since the 1990s with a government of Simitis. This logic of co-management will complicate the situation even further, exacerbating not only the contradictions but also the dangers to the peoples of the region. This whole situation, of course, is taking place in an unstable international environment, where the main problem is the overcompensation of funds, i.e. funds that gypsies and lead to a stagnation and slowdown in the international economy. Each state, each imperialist centre does not wish its own funds to be destroyed. They seek to shield them and at the same time want to lead to the destruction of the funds of other centres. This is precisely what leads to the exacerbation of conflicts and competition, to the exacerbation of trade wars, to technological wars, in particular between the United States and China on the Silk Road, to exacerbate the conflict between the United States and the European Union, which creates a particularly unstable environment after Brexit. Thus, any compromises achieved in this process are fragile and the risk of an imperialist war that will destroy these overcompensated funds is becoming more and more real. And there is an objective basis for this, it is the exacerbation of contradictions. So the event of a new capitalist crisis is even closer. It is precisely in this direction, in the destruction of capital, that New Deal seeks the green one, under the pretext of climate change. There are huge business interests for the destruction of dirty energy infrastructures and their replacement for equitable and clean energy infrastructure, amounting to a few trillion dollars. The European Union is at the forefront of this because it needs to respond to the energy dependence it has on the United States and Russia, but also because it has comparative advantages in so-called green technology. People will be lost, we will have cheap workers and energy poverty. Either way, the result will be the even greater opening of the lane between the objective capabilities and the level of satisfaction of the people's needs. Social inequalities will grow and grow even further. The wealth will concentrate on increasingly fewer hands and will also expand wider strata that live in poverty. At international level, only 0.9% of the world's population holds 43.9% of the world's wealth, while on the other hand, on the dark side of the moon, 56.5% of the poorest part of the world's population only holds 1.8% of the world's wealth. In this very state of law, it leads the capitalist system, which is disturbed by crises. And there is no philosophical management of this capitalist system. The example of SYRIZA government was revealing. Why did he drive? It led to enlargement and poorer strata, led to the concentration of wealth in less and less hands and at the same time created the conditions for unfolding the policy of the New Democracy Government. That is why the controversy which is being made is that the people should learn to live with reduced demands, that they should go hand in hand with the various benefits - tips, which were even formulated in the logic of minimum guaranteed income. In other words, we have a redistribution of poverty. The fewer poor layers pay for most poor, while the rich are becoming richer and richer. That is why we also have the intensity of the repression to enforce this policy by the pupil courts, the agro-industrial courts of the SYRIZA. From the arrest of students who went to tear down Truman's statue, we are now going to more decisive enforcement. After all, the urban state is the organised violence of the exploiters. In this strategy, despite the intensification of confrontation, which seeks to obscure the acceptance that this strategy has of all other parties, there cannot be a way out for the benefit of the people on this path. The way out is, there is, it is the only way out, which can respond to this paradox, because while possibilities are growing, people must live under worse conditions. And this outlet has a name, it has the socialist system, the socialist development of the economy and society through the central scientific design, the socialisation of all the means of production, the release from the imperialist centres, the European Union, NATO and the International Monetary Fund, which, at the heart of growth and the economy, will bring satisfaction to the people's needs. This means overthrowing the bourgeois state and the bourgeoisie and building a labour state. That is the answer and this answer must be imposed through the decisive struggle of the working class and the rest of the people's layers, because only through this process can the very focus be on the needs of the people. In this respect, Mr President, it is clear that the JRC is voting against the budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u16	The general rapporteur from the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, of course the debate on the budget must be the top of the parliamentary term, which unfortunately we have seen is not the case, since the rapporteurs have been given little time to the Economic Committee. This is therefore a pretextary procedure in which the government does not give any fundamental importance. However, as a Greek Solution, we have analysed in every detail the budget, as we do with all the bills, while always voting for it to be of little benefit to Greece, without, of course, proposing the party interest of the nation. For example, we voted in principle on the development and tax bill, since it was in the right direction, although with many mistakes, by voting against what their articles were negative for the country, while we voted against the HARAKLIS project, noting that it is mainly for the benefit of foreign speculators and less for the benefit of leftover banks. Unfortunately, it will lead to the quickening of the seizures and the auctions of the private property of the Greeks, of their homes which, with so much trouble, were acquired by themselves or by their ancestors, who will not only lose them, but will also remain in debt with the rest of their loans, debt slaves in the dilemma. The budget now has no political vision and no economic planning, making up only one management tool for the control of receipts. It is almost no different from the manager's budget of a building, and it does not change our inefficient economic model, which is still based on complexity, corruption and party analgesia. This model that led us to the overcompensation from New Democracy in 2009, later to the bankruptcy of the PSI by the New Democracy - PASOK - surrendered our national sovereignty for no reason - and also to the completion of the SYRIZA disaster, which was transferred everything to the supranational bank of the lenders, left our financial system, continued the sale of the country and surrendered Macedonia's name, more likely in exchange for the 96 billion euros transferred insurmountably after 2032. So the priorities of the memoranda, which, of course, have not ended, are still being respected, with regard to the shrinking of our country and its economic subordination in Germany, with a view to the complete change of ownership, which has now been added to the risk of the loss of our territorial integrity by Turkey, since Greece is now financially and militaryly helpless. How the Greeks voted again on those parties that went bankrupt and destroyed us by almost 80% is something we are unable to interpret. With regard to the economy, unfortunately, as we have seen in the 2017 report, the government is quite wrong that Greece's problem is neither the unreasonable public debt nor the only one in the world history of red privacy, but investment and even foreign investments, despite the fact that it should have known that it never exceeded 2% of GDP compared with almost 25% of domestics. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It believes in the theory of supply, when even a small child knows - at the latest after the great recession in the United States in 1930 - that it is only the demand that a country can survive, from that time on and after that it has been submerged in the recession, which can only be stimulated by a proper fiscal policy, since there is no possibility of monetary policy, because of our participation in the Eurozone, while wage policy, known as the 'internal' devaluation, has proved to be disastrous. In particular, tax competitive with the countries concerned and public investment of at least EUR 10 billion to create jobs, create domestic demand and follow the private sector, how much more so when foreign demand is a summer dream, on the one hand, because the European Union is regressing, on the other hand, because our economy's competitiveness has been lost, despite the vertical reduction in labour costs per unit of product, because domestic investments have decreased much more than pay. So the government states that the public will receive in 2020 a sum of EUR 2,44 billion from privatisations, more generally from the sale of fixed assets to be launched by the HICP. However, it does not tell us that TIADE is a foreign company, a bankrupt by creditors, with the mandate to sell what Greece has transferred to him without even assessing their value - ports, marinas, energy companies, gas or oil deposits, water, electricity, motorways, trains, lotterys, radio frequencies, banks, real estate and what Greece has - while revenues will be driven abroad even more by strangling the liquidity of our economy. The New Democracy will not even hesitate to create a stock exchange market in the energy sector, despite the fact that it should know that precisely these derivatives have been bankrupt in California, with the energy bill, which we naturally voted against, since it also distributes the PPC to sell it out, leaving PPC "empty deaf" without IPTO and the DEDDIE, at the mercy of speculators. So, of course, Greece will have growth, but such that it will not benefit the Greeks at all. On the contrary, it will lead them to extinction, without any overcompensation, since the country's new owners have every interest in employing cheap foreigners, migrants in their businesses, who already flood Greece under the responsibility of the New Democracy, on the basis that migration flows have increased by over 200% since they took over. What foreigner, really, will invest productively in a country where demand has declined to such an extent, among other things, because households are overdebted? How, then, can the New Democracy claim that the exorbitant red private debt is not the problem? Why, for example, build a new factory, when what already exists in Greece fails, in danger of bankruptcy? Is it not obvious that foreign speculators will buy existing, mainly public utilities, at degrading prices, so that they will simply change hands and create no additional job, which will result in new incomes and demand rises? On the other hand, how can the public invest with its own debt in the stratosphere and lenders forbid it? Is it not unreasonable, therefore, that the government considers that neither the public debt is a problem, because it is currently served because of the artificially low international interest rates plus the extension of EUR 96 billion by SYRIZA for after 2032? At the moment, however, with the extra-real surpluses of 3.5%, once the debt is serviced, with interest that will amount to EUR 5.18 billion in 2020 from EUR 5.6 billion in 2019 and EUR 6 billion in 2018, as we will present to you in the Minutes, compared to the medium term. [[At this point, the MEP of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos Viliardos presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the basis of the budgetary chart 4.1, which we will also be tabling in the Minutes, it is noted that the necessary payments in 2022, which exceeds EUR 8 billion cannot normally be covered. While 2023 is of the order of EUR 10 billion. [[At this point, the MEP of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos Viliardos presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The summer of low payments is maintained until 2021, of low payments prepared by Mrs Angelopoulos, the celebration of the two hundred years from the liberation of Greece, but she will find her enslaved as ever in her history. Is it not obvious that what the government should do is to find a solution to the unsustainable public debt, to increase public investment, and also to reduce taxes? To launch a rational budgetary policy, by finding ways of financing it, rather than reincreasing the Public Investment Programme to EUR 6,75 billion from EUR 7,35 billion in the medium term, by further reducing their national share to EUR 750 million from EUR 800 million in 2019 and EUR 1,2 billion in the medium term? I'll submit it to the Minutes. It's our calculation. [[At this point, the MEP of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos Viliardos presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Is it true enough that the 750 million to meet the needs of the country, when Mr Hatzidakis said they would also include the electrical interconnection of Attica - Crete, costing EUR 900 million, with a view to completion in 2022, so that he would absorb almost half of the national part of the Public Investment Programme? Should they not have been used for defence expenditure, given that Greece is facing many threats, is it alone and is it considering armaments procurement? It is something that, at least, we would prefer domestic production to companies such as ELVO and EAB, to the extent possible, so that there is an additional development benefit. What we have seen now, in the debate on the 2017 report, is that Greece's existing balance sheet is literally chaotic, without any realities. We also found that there was an account of cash flows with receipts of EUR 665 billion and payments of EUR 663 billion, increased by EUR 110 billion compared to 2016. While the same account appears in the 2020 budget too, with around EUR 600 billion. As has been said, this is short-term financing with repos, but without explaining why this huge amount of money is being used for the continuous recycling of loans of about EUR 30 billion, which obviously costs. Continuingly, a key issue that should be discussed with the budget is the situation of at least large public enterprises and the dividends of at least one to one collected by the public, with their respective business plans, business plans for the following year, so that they can pay higher profits. After all, the State’s income should not come from taxes alone, but also from the profitability of its companies, through which taxes can and should be reduced. In addition, investment in these enterprises, with a view to improving competitiveness and increasing profitability, increases GDP and reduces unemployment while boosting the private sector. Also, the main issue is the analysis of the private sector, where no substantial reference is made to the budget, since what matters is the total debt and the total net position of the country. In this regard, the value of its assets, deposits and debts should be clearly indicated. Its net position, that is, since it depends on the public's ability to collect taxes. In Greece's example, it makes no sense to be proud of the reduction of the public debt, when the red private is launched, the deposits are reduced and private property is devalued. Only household private assets have been reduced by EUR 600 billion. Red debt has increased by 250 billion euros. Over 100 billion euros were lost from the Stock Exchange, which means that the crisis cost us over 1 trillion euros. In this respect, the public property is actually transferred to the public and from there to creditors, while, by selling out public enterprises and creating private property, we act like the one who sells the furniture of his home, to survive in the short term, so that he finally loses what he has and does not have, without doing anything at all. He's still in debt. In the private sector's analysis, now, its competitiveness has to be included, as is shown by the commercial balance and the current account balance, in which almost no importance is attached in the budget debate. Finally, the debate on the budget must address the country's economic model, which often requires renewal and central planning, noting that Greece is largely based on tourism, which is cyclical, so it is suffering in times of recession and intensification of capital, so it is suffering in periods of reduced liquidity, while it covers almost 85% of its needs with imports, thus exacerbating our balances when it is upward, depleting our benefits. In this respect, we must pay particular attention to our primary sector by transforming it, which requires a central planning, as well as to industry, including because it offers more safer and more decent jobs, thereby supporting demand, investment and GDP. Also, attention should be paid to high technology and shipping, at least as far as ship management is concerned, which can increase our GDP by many billions, by 18 billion according to an analysis by the University of Piraeus. In my dennote next week I shall refer to the individual ratios of GDP, namely consumption, private investment, public spending and exports less import, because there is no time at present. Continuing, we will not concentrate on the accounting figures, on many of which we have already mentioned in the committee, and there is no need to repeat, nor time. It is reasonable, moreover, that the increase in VAT on the budget is based on the anticipated growth and the fight against tax evasion, HISPIA, collectivity and so on, if, of course, all this is achieved by the government, whereas the entire budget is based mainly on the high growth rate envisaged, contrary to the forecasts of the European Union and the IMF. 2% is the IMF forecast for growth and 2.2% for 2020. I'm filing it in the Minutes. We must, however, draw attention to the very low forecast for our equipment programme, which was reduced to 258 million in 2019, compared with 336 million in the medium term, but is increased to only 421 million in 2020 as against 347 million in the medium term. Is it true enough to meet our needs, given Turkish aggression, but is the recent bill? We also draw attention to expenditure on social benefits, which is reduced from EUR 261 million to EUR 134 million and, finally, to the cost of immigration, which is estimated at EUR 150 million, when it is in our calculations of EUR 1.8 billion per two hundred thousand immigrants. In addition to this, we note the following risks to be taken into account in the implementation of the budget and in the following years. First, retrospectively, tax free, 'HRAKLIS'. In this respect, additional costs may be incurred for the following: For retroactive pensions estimated between EUR 2,4 billion and EUR 4,8 billion for unpaid pension reductions in the medium term of EUR 9 billion for the period between 2020 and 2022, for the non-regression of duty of around EUR 6 billion and, finally, for the consequences of the ‘ERAKLIS’ programme for the state guarantees that might be deducted. I would remind you that the state guarantees to banks are EUR 12 billion. Secondly, there are business risks, consequences of the failure of the 'THOMAS COOK' and a possible recession in Europe. Will it not affect revenue, if arrivals are reduced, and if the remaining tourist agencies ask - and they will demand - reduced prices? Mr. Theocharis calculated the cost at around EUR 500 million. There's nowhere in the budget. Thirdly, there is a risk of a fall in exports, due to a recession in Europe, due to the recent duties imposed by the United States in the context of the trade dispute with the European Union and, of course, to Russia, due to sanctions, and possibly exports to Turkey, how much more so when the risk of a global conflict is a given one. Fourthly, there is a risk of failure of the targets. What will happen, really, if there are negative economic data internationally, but also in our country, especially after the increase in indirect taxes by around EUR 2 billion in relation to the medium and EUR 800 million in relation to 2019? I'm filing our calculations in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, with regard to borrowing rates, will the trend be maintained for how long before fears of the country's worthy are caused due to our wonderful twin debts or if there is instability worldwide? That is why the government should be specifically wondering about it. Finally, the budget does not have a developmental direction based on wishing to increase private consumption and investment. Although some efforts are being made to support the economy through benefits, it is not enough. In our view, if the Public Investment Programme does not increase to EUR 10 million, in order to stimulate demand, reduce unemployment and boost the private sector, as well as if taxes are not drastically reduced, Greece will run from bad to worse. Obviously for Greeks, not foreigners. We shall therefore vote against it, since it does not give any prospect to the country and the Greeks, and it is mainly based on the sale of public property and the confiscation of private property, namely the change of ownership status of Greece, which continues to remain unarmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u18	The last general rapporteur from Mera25, Mr Arsenis, is now called at Step. Let me remind you here that after Mr Arseni's speech, the list of speakers will be closed. Members who have not declared themselves and wish to be registered, please register either in the Chamber or enter if they are in the building.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for us this budget looks very much like the previous one. The changes are, unfortunately, pointy. But there are those in the details. There's a clear class mark, which we'll denounce. We are not surprised that these two budgets look like - the SYRIZA Government and the Government of New Democracy. Both budgets are unrealistic, by governments that are fully bound by any previous Memorandum and also by future objectives that are still in progress. The government had said that this budget would be the first development budget. We wonder where this results from, reading the budget. Previously, Mr. Psulakakis, you said that in a few months' time you could have taken the steps you would have brought the country into rapid development and exit from the crisis. It's been too soon these few months. There is no prospect of this either from the bills, which you bring and the photographic provisions to specific business families, or from the budget that you have brought us here. You said that the heart of your policy - and that is why you asked the Greek citizens to rule - would also be a reduction in primary surpluses, to come out of the debate today, as if it had never been said - since the first week - from your Government, when you said and leaked that the officials of the European Union were positive for a reduction of 2% to 1.5% of the primary surpluses after 2021, when we know that 2022 anyway, targets are falling to 2.2%. So you're satisfied with a 0.2% reduction in primary surpluses after 2022, if you already get it? And in this part, both as regards the primary surplus and as far as - and as regards the budget, what you are doing is that you are giving obedience credentials. However, while we are living in a country that has been submerged in the debt crisis, which has led to a society's crisis as a whole, we still do not know the main indicators of this debt issue. We wonder what the mid-term interest rate is for our debt. It has been publicly announced that for the debt we have an average interest rate of about 1.65%. However, this is for the negotiable debt, which is 13% of the total public debt. In the remaining 87%, which is in the hands of non-negotiating institutions, the mediation rate is undeclared. We're asking you, what's that? Because without that it is impossible to have any provision for the course of the debt. Our calculations are that it's about 2.5%. Is that true, Mr. Undersecretary? If this is the case, it is particularly important because it pays particular attention to the differences in the forecasts of GDP growth between the government and the budget and the various agencies. Because the IMF gives 2.3%, the European Commission 2.3%, the OECD 2.1%. Even the Bank of Greece, Mr Stournaras, who is quite friendly to the government, gives 2.4%. So the debt in practice will run faster than the economy, and this is very critical and leads to a series of deadlocks. However, you will in any case prefer the deadlocks of the debt restructuring negotiations. And that will, unfortunately, lead us to a wall soon enough. We wish that it will not lead us, we hope that gigantic growth will come, but this growth will not come with the gifts you bring to the big entrepreneurs and the costs you bring to the middle family. In particular, your class policy is clearly seen in the matter of indirect taxes. Indirect taxes are class taxes because they disproportionately burden poorer families. Here we have an increase of 2.2%, that is, EUR 636 million, of indirect taxes, both in terms of value added tax and excise duty, when you are again reducing income tax, but again horizontally, leading to a greater reduction for the rich and crumbs for the poorest. Even ENVIA is growing, despite your first tax bill, where you said you were bringing this EUR 200 million reduction. Now we see that there is a new increase, precisely because you are increasing objective values. The classic character, however, also seems to be very strong at all the wider social costs. We see a reduction in expenditure on the Ministry of Health by EUR 182 million, in practice a stabilization of expenditure on the Ministry of Education. We have in the Ministry of Labour a reduction of EUR 382 million of the Ministry's budget, but even in the cultural part, which is important for our country, we have a reduction of EUR 61 million. Even where you are reducing the income tax for legal persons from 28% to 24% and the total amount to be reduced is EUR 541 million, the EUR 300 million goes to a few large profitable companies, while small and medium-sized enterprises - which are 90% of enterprises and produce the largest share of employment - are actually going EUR 75 million. Social transfers are reduced by 114 million euros, social benefits in 50%, mainly targeting and hitting any right and the possibility of immigrants to build up a right. More specifically, you are even reducing the cost of uninsured over-ages by EUR 3 million, reducing the social income of solidarity, reducing the rental allowance by EUR 52 million. You exclude immigrants from doing so, making them impossible, increasing the time of maturing, so that they can build rights from five to ten years. You are reducing pension expenditure by EUR 192 million, and this is very critical here, because this comes together with the reduction of around EUR half billion in the state grant to the insurance funds. There is no provision for payment of the retrospectives that the Council of State will probably decide, at the same time as, when your budget was approved by the committee and the European institutions, it has been promised that if there is a duty to repay the retrospectives, these will come from the current budget of the Ministry of Health, so from cuts in other social benefits. In essence, too, the budget for education states a very specific thing, that you do not go along with the necessary recruitments and keep the assistants hostage. You are reducing by EUR 37 million the financing of hospitals compared to 2019 when it was already reduced compared to 2018 by EUR 65 million. You are reducing the funding of primary health care by 4 to 4.5m euros. And overall, this is the picture you have, that all these social costs are ultimately unnecessary for you, it is a necessary evil, which you must manage. Public education, public health, public health is something you do not believe in. We are voting against this budget and we invite you to provide us with all the incomplete information that is available, beyond the mid-term interest rate. We are wondering, Minister, whether you will finally announce the total amount of IOUs you have signed as the Ministry of Banks. There are infinite hidden elements which, in fact, I think should be revealed. However, because this budget also concerns defensive expenditure, I have to make a reference to what is currently happening with Turkey with this criminal mining policy. As a country that accepts the challenges and those of illegality under international law, Turkey's claims all these years because of oil - I remind you of 'Sismique', I remind you of thousands of other things - you have all the previous governments and brought the issue of oil mining and relations with Turkey to this for granted. You proceeded to open up our seas to mining with no benefit to public revenue, at a terrible cost based on international studies on tourism. An accident can exceed EUR 5 billion and revenue is estimated not to exceed EUR 150 million in total. And having at the moment given to the multinational oil companies what they want for their stock exchange profits, to say they get new regions, you left an area that you can't, due to the challenges you can't give, the Aegean. And they are coming now with these challenges and they will come - I fear - and Mr Trump, with the interests he represents, press us for co-management. And this will be a criminal policy and it is a direct consequence of your mining policies and at some point there must be an accountability from those who have supported the oil mining, the multiple loss for Greece on all sides - the environment, the economy - and now we are seeing the crisis with Turkey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u20	The list of general rapporteurs has been completed. I would ask that the system be closed unless a colleague who has not declared himself to speak is in the Chamber. There's no one. All right, shut the system down. Before entering the special rapporteurs, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Skylakakis, asked for the floor for three minutes. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I am simply taking the floor for some initial remarks and clarifications. First of all, it concerns the question of Officer Responsibility. It tells us that it is oxime to reduce tax rates and predict more tax revenues. It is not a oxymoor, it is the word 'development'. And the same word answers to the other question raised by the Qualified Opposition, namely what is happening with the FBI. The ECJ has a larger budget, more revenue, less burdening the taxpayer, because the contributions are increased. This is what happens when there is an accelerated growth. Also, I'm afraid that the Civic Opposition reads as it serves. I have to give two clarifications on specific issues. We are told that there is no budget. There is, but it's in the Public Investment Program. Everyone knows, it's been published everywhere, it's known. Also, as far as the heating allowance is concerned, let me say that it does not really exist in the 2020 budget, because it is given earlier. It was granted in 2019. And I must tell you, let us inform the House that it is going very well and will be greater participation than any other year, more citizens will benefit. A second comment concerns the view of two other parties, the KINAL and the JRC, that economic policy has not changed. I fear that these parties are somehow being lured from political attraction. It is clear that there has been a change in economic policy. We are going from overtaxation and surpluses in tax evasion, which give growth incentives, and we finance them by reducing tax evasion and abolishing surpluses, especially under-utilisation. Finally, a third point - so that we do not have too much time - for the famous reduction in primary surpluses. Look, in order to reduce the primary surpluses of 3.5% agreed by the previous government, there is one condition: to change the debt sustainability analysis. We, from June to November - as the Commission and the other institutions do - have an improvement of five to six years of the time when our debt will reach 100%. It is a huge improvement and it has taken place in a few months. That is the factor that we have already achieved improvement, mainly because of interest rates. The second, which is already being measured, is the development indicators. When the sustainability analysis is improved, then we will be able to go to our institutions and partners and with conviction to achieve a reduction in primary surpluses. It is not arbitrary to reduce surpluses. It is a serious technical negotiation, and then the policy follows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u22	We enter the circle of special rapporteurs. Speaking time is 12 minutes for each rapporteur and I would ask him to keep up, in view of the fact that it is twelve speakers and we have to finish in good time. Mr Katsafandos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the first budget of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis accurately reflects not only the government's intention to pursue another policy mix but also the market and economy climate. The economic climate index, according to the European Union figures, is on a continuous upward trend. In November it reached 107 units, a better performance of decades. The same is true of what has to do with the index of consumer confidence. ELSTAT's figures show us that 2019 will close at a rate of growth that will very difficult fall below 2%, which makes the target more than feasible for 2.8% growth in 2020. The market confidence in the Greek economy has been recovered and confirmed by the fact that Greece has been able to borrow for the third time within two months at a negative interest rate. It is characteristic, ladies and gentlemen, that the interest rate in the 6-month-old treasury bills has been shaped in the historical low of 0.02%. The government is therefore building on this image. It builds with great effort to create better economic conditions for the entire Greek society. However, the most important thing about the budget we are talking about is that it is based on actual figures and data. It supports the country's return to normality. It is linked to important innovations in the area of expenditure, which are based on rationalisation. For the first time, ladies and gentlemen, since the first days of the country's governance by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, an integrated framework has been put in place for review and ongoing assessment of expenditure and policies linked to this expenditure. This means that the overall assessment of public expenditure is recorded and analysed in all areas and at all levels of governance, from ministries to supervised bodies. But not all of this is a report of ideas or theoretical shapes, because it is already being implemented in practice. The review of expenditure we have been applying these months is already fruitful. We were able to obtain a savings of EUR 80 million, while revenues of EUR 134 million were detected. This creates a cumulatively positive financial result of EUR 214 million, which will be allocated for the reduction of taxes in 2020, and this has also been confirmed by the adoption of the tax draft a week ago and includes a reduction in a number of tax burdens imposed by the SYRIZA government. It is characteristic that the practical application of the new state spending review model has led to specific actions and priorities for the next period, which relate to rationalising the cost of managing and maintaining the State vehicle fleet, to the optimal use of energy resources through consumption control practices, to the implementation of a direct action plan to make use of the state’s building stock, to best municipal revenue collection practices, an action to be implemented in its practical and institutional part by the Ministry of Interior, to maintenance services for resource savings, to reduce the cost of supplying medical oxygen, an action to be undertaken by the Ministry of Health, to effectively address the problem of tax evasion, which creates deficits in urban transport. In essence, therefore, a new financial management model is being put in place, including targeting, evaluation indicators and continuous monitoring. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to spending itself, the first thing we have to say is that we have an increase in relation to what was calculated for 2019, an increase of EUR 772 million. We have focused on rationalisation and evaluation of public spending and services, and there is already a reduction in the expenditure for this category by EUR 486 million compared with 2019. In fact, over time, there was a hypothesis of the costs of this category. If there are exceptional expenditure needs, there is the special reserve, which we have established with a recent draft law and which was created not to scorn money but to better manage the costs that have the element of uncertainty about the scope and timing of their implementation. The 2020 budget presents a reduction in social benefits by EUR 126 million. As a substance and as a substance, however, it does not respond to the real picture for just one reason, because we have established and for the first time takes higher numbers of Greek citizens with a higher heating allowance on time. I do not need to remind you of the delays and intimidating situations that we have faced in relation to the heating allowance in the past. In the area of expenditure on transfers to entities within and outside the general government, a reduction of EUR 113 million is recorded and the total expenditure is EUR 27,844 billion. Here I would remind you again, ladies and gentlemen, that it was the Tsipras government that abolished the CSCE. Our answer, the New Democracy's answer, is the constitutional guarantee of minimum guaranteed income. In the near future, the budget for the minimum guaranteed income will increase to EUR 1 billion. It is estimated that it will be an essential measure of support for over eight hundred thousand of our fellow citizens who need it in order to ensure social cohesion, which we are trying to ensure by means of acts and not by words. It is also important to increase by EUR 389 million compared with 2019 expenditure on the category of benefits to workers. This is translated into an increase in the regular earnings of 129m euros, resulting from wage maturities, but also from an increase in employers' contributions in favour of R & D and other insurers by 425m euros, resulting from an increase in the rate of employers' contributions from 10% in 2019 to 13.3% in 2020. Those who wish to criticise the fact that the expenditure on subsidies is being cut by EUR 136 million, should take into account firstly the fact that this is because expenditure on arid lines has been covered by the Public Investment Programme. The expenditure allocated to the implementation of the Public Investment Programme will amount to EUR 6 billion 750 million. In particular for the Public Investment Programme, it should be noted that a transfer of EUR 250 million is made from the national component to the co-financed, which has a higher rate and can multiply the development benefits. At the same time, this move creates a financial benefit of EUR 170 million. The Public Investment Programme for 2020 includes projects and actions for infrastructure, health, education, transport, communications, energy, the environment and the modernisation of public administration and civil service. However, there is also a second division of allocation appropriations, which includes expenditure on insurance funds, employment agencies and health services agencies. This category of expenditure, which totals EUR 8 billion 245 million, includes the appropriations for planned new recruitments to central administration bodies, as well as appropriations for dealing with immigration. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to refer specifically to what has to do with the expenditure of the Ministry of Defence, which I think needs to be explained, since these have not included additional amounts for expenditure of an exceptional nature, they are implemented during the implementation of the budget, as was done in 2019. This is because, for the purposes of the printing of expenditure on a budgetary basis, account is taken of the physical receipts of equipment and not of payments. The physical receipts of the equipment for 2019 are estimated at 258 million, while for 2020 at EUR 421 million. A credible comparison between 2019 and 2010 will show us that if we put on the general expenditure of the Ministry of National Defence, but also this difference between payments between 2020 and 2019, we have an increase, in what is to do with this critical national period for the Ministry of National Defence, of the amount of EUR 168 million. With regard to health expenditure, hospital costs are budgeted at EUR 3,859 billion for 2020, slightly reduced, but this is due to the savings of resources from the annual ‘Having Hospital’ programme, which will primarily assess performance indicators, with the aim of saving resources through the improvement of the central procurement process. The Ministry of Health's ordinary budget amounts to EUR 3,859 billion, with EUR 60 million being allocated to the EIF. For primary health care, EUR 524.9 million is provided for funding, of which EUR 500 million come from the regular budget and the rest from the EIF, with a large proportion of the amount of EUR 22.4 million coming from co-financing. It should also be stressed that the EEA budget provides for increased expenditure by EUR 108 million. There is also an increase in expenditure on education by EUR 102 million, due to the incorporation of forecasts into remuneration for the appointment of four and a half thousands of special education and training courses in universities and increased employers' contributions by 3.3% compared with 2019. In the area of social solidarity, and in particular in the spending of the Ministry of Labour, we have budgetary support initially submitted since 2019 by EUR 1 billion 400 million. But on this point, ladies and gentlemen, we must say where this increase in funding will be directed. First, to support low-pension and vulnerable social groups with an amount corresponding to EUR 982.3 million. Secondly, in the public contribution to the protection of the first home with EUR 50 million. Thirdly, the social security costs of general government expenditure on ECA grant for the payment of public pensions, an amount corresponding to EUR 317 million. At the same time, the EUR 2 000 allowance for each young child born is a total cost of EUR 123 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end in two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget is the first budget after decades that has developmental characteristics. It is now a dominant feeling in our society that something has started and changed in our country. This sense in society, but also the climate that has been created in the real economy, cannot be overcome. No one can underestimate it or degrade it. So the government, with what it does with this budget, is to look forward, go forward to the country. Unfortunately, those who insist on the stereotypes and practices of the past should continue to look at yesterday. We must and must move forward, bringing creative Greece to the fore, the one that gives young people opportunities and the budget, which we are debating today, is what it serves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u24	The special rapporteur from SYRIZA, Mr Syriza, is being called to Stepma. Here you go, Mr. Armachyn, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the budget of the New Democracy Government for 2020 breaks down another election myth of the New Democracy. The first myth was Macedonian, the second was migration - refugee, the third myth is the budget, where it said that the economic policy pursued by the SYRIZA was a fourth memorandum. Are you saying, Mr. Minister and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that by 7 July we had a fourth memorandum and then, by magic, everything became good and well, the markets opened, the heavens opened and become a "urium" the investment climate in the country and everything is going well? They gave you a deafening response to ELSTAT's corrective data for the first half of 2019. In the first quarter 1.9% GDP growth, in the second quarter 2.8% GDP growth, which is what you expected for 2020. These elements of ELSTAT obviously also covered what you say 'the financial gap'. Mrs Papanatziou, our general rapporteur, asked you how you immediately found the 200 million for the ENPI. These issues were then explained, as was explained by the increase in revenues from tourism, which travel receipts reached 14% in the first nine months. So what you see as your achievements, even the capital controls, even the repayment of the IMF loans, was practically finished. You put the cherry on the cake. They were already ready, they were done. You guys just found them ready. You are now talking about an expansive and development budget, where expansive expenditure amounts to 1,18 billion. Of these expenditure, in fact half, 0.5% of GDP, which is 616 million, goes to large businesses, representing 2.5% of all businesses. The reduction of the tax rate from 28% to 24% and the rate of tax dividends from 10% to 5% go there, while in the rest of the natural sectors it goes to 404 million, of which a large share goes to high incomes again. I'll tell you why. For, of course, the tax rate of 9% to 10,000 euros is a real tax relief, but it will appear to self-employed and self-employed professionals in 2021. However, the scale of up to EUR 20,000, which includes our very large categories of fellow citizens, remains at 22%. This, together with the insurance, which you are about to announce in the first days of January 2020, will, as we say, bring the middle-class into a very difficult position, even in reductions in available income, to tax and insurance compensation. You're talking about growing 2.8%. Obviously, we would like there to be 2.8% growth and even greater growth. But also the global and European environment - Brexit, a trade war in the United States - Europe - China, etc. - they do not contribute in that direction. Both the Bureau of the Parliamentary Budget and the European Commission with 2.3% prediction, the OECD with 2.1%, the International Monetary Fund with 2.2%. Where are you relying on your success and on the fact that you will cover these expenditures, which I said before, in 1,18 billion? You're saying you're going to hit the tax evasion. And the only option for the hit on tax evasion is the general obligation on electronic transactions of 30%, without any escalation, which we have been applying. This 30% requirement makes it considerably difficult for small and medium-sized incomes, while it facilitates large incomes. It is also based on the fact that you will cover these costs with the following revenues: from limiting operating and other costs of the ordinary budget of public services 500 million, 184 million from the cost and revenue overview, 123 million from improving the efficiency of general government bodies, 557 million from the fight against evasion by electronic transactions, 142 million from the rationalisation of objective values. Who will pay the marble for adjusting the objective values? Are we going to overthrow the data that we have voted on to date for the reduction of HICPIA, and then you have added for the large assets? This will be apparent during the first months of 2020. We have, in other words, given what I said earlier, but we have doubtful revenues. And who's gonna pay for derailing the budget? Obviously, social costs. Already in the 2020 budget, you have a reduction in social solidarity allowances of 400 million. Your intentions were very clear with the cut in the social dividend, which we gave for three years, in 1/4 of what we gave last year, in 2018, and at the same time abolished the tenth pension. The reductions in social benefits are, therefore, 173 million for disabled people, 139 million for family allowances, 53 million for rent and 30 million for school meals. These are the reductions in the social state to which you are going. As for the provision of a two-point reduction in unemployment, that is to say 14%, it is not easy to confirm it when it is already in the first five months, to which you are in power, it has been lost, based on the figures of the 'ERGAN', two and a half thousand jobs. Who tells us that there will be a decline in unemployment, while in our own governance, in very difficult conditions, we have reduced unemployment by ten points and created three hundred thousand new jobs? There will be marginal increases in the health sector, but increases in terms of the SYRIZA government's agreement with the institutions for the closed budgets for the medicine and other benefits of the EEAS. The big question in the health sector is as follows. Will the appointment of the National Health System, which has been carried out with great efforts of our own to universalise all citizens, or will we go into partnership with the private sector, for which you are not speaking, do you not say a word, or do you even encourage certain bodies that go to specific events? In education, the small increase in expenditure by 2.36 cuts the rate of increase we have had in recent years, which for 2019 was 6.17. We arrived at 2,36, and no one tells us whether the ongoing recruitment of five thousand two hundred fifty teachers in general education is being called into question. In the field of shipping and insular policy, Mr Placiotakis - he is not here - has announced that he will go to the Public Investment Programme to cover the atrocities of 130 million. Gentlemen of the Government, Mr Plakkatakis, what about the transport equivalent that was in the Public Investment Programme? What about expenditure on the academies of a commercial seafarer? What about the costs of port projects in the Public Investment Programme? I ask you directly: will you abolish or continue the transport equivalent? This is the big question for the whole island of Greece, which we went through in very tough conditions, and we managed last year to have a budget of 150 million. Already, the fuels are beginning to cut off this pilot project and you know it very well. So answer us directly until the end of the budget session. What about local government? Mr. Theodorikos said it all. The programme 'Philodimos', 'Philodimos 1' and 'Philodimos 2' is effectively abolished, a programme which gave a huge impetus to development, social and environmental infrastructure in the municipalities of the country. So now he's pulling it down to build a programme of his own, which he'll obviously share funds with customer views. So before I conclude, I would like to say that, apart from what you predict, you are canceling a number of measures that the SYRIZA Government had foreseen and announced for 2020, and I will tell you in the outlines: You cancel the 50% tax advance. You cancel the increase in depreciation rate to 50%. You cancel the abolition of a solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 20,000 and the gradual reduction for this. You cancel the VAT reduction from 13% to 11%. Cancel the minimum salary increase by 15% in two instalments. You are canceling the tax reduction for cooperative farmers. You cancel the reduction of the tax on permanent residents on islands with a population of up to three thousand per cent. You cancel the abolition of the permanent inhabitants of the islands with less than a thousand people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, this 2020 budget will not bring growth to all and with well-paid jobs. This is a budget of development for a few and a few chosen and sometimes 'humbs' and an antisocial budget for many, particularly for employees, farmers and pensioners. It is a budget that blurs expectations and great words about the middle class. It is a budget that does not form part of any coherent and holistic development plan, contrary to us who have worked out an integrated national development strategy published on the website of the Ministry of Development “April 2019”. Anyone who wants to see it can see it. It includes the specialisation of interdependent measures, which promote the development of critical sectors of the national economy in the context of the country's geostrategic position and the competitive globalised economy, the agri-food sector, research, innovation, newly-born enterprises, energy, the use of renewable energy, tourism, industry and a number of other sectors. For all these reasons, we are voting against the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u26	The special rapporteur from the Change Movement, Mr Arvanitidis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the 2020 budget, the first budget of the new government period. Because the debate on the budget always takes the form of an account of the events of a government and the general direction of where it wants to go, we must also assess governance from New Democracy to this day. So the government's account says that with the 2020 budget we are returning to normality. In what normality, however, do you want to return us and in what way? In the normality of SYRIZA and the overcrowdings of 3.5%, where does this budget maintain? In the Change Movement we will not get tired of shouting that these high primary surpluses are the real cord in the economy, they undermine sustainable development and they should have changed yesterday, not tomorrow. Even Mrs Lagard, the President of the European Central Bank, repeated just the day before yesterday, but clearly her already expressed view of reducing these surpluses. These surpluses must begin every debate on growth and the budget. You did not, however, want, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to negotiate them in the summer of 2019, and so today you bring the 2020 budget to another amount of EUR 7 billion from the taxpayers, to serve these objectives of the surpluses. So in the same play, spectators. No return to any normality. The citizens, at the end of the bill, will not actually see a realistic benefit in their pockets for 2020, as small and medium-sized budgets are charged with an additional EUR 323 million in income tax, with an additional EUR 84 million in real estate taxes, with an additional EUR 638 million in VAT and an additional EUR 88 million in consumption tax. While the main element of the budget, which is the surpluses, remains the same, other parameters are ignored and are not taken into account in the development of the budget objectives. Factors such as climate change and impacts on all kinds of infrastructure, the need for investment of a positive nature with prevention projects, as well as restoration projects that will be needed, demographic ageing, irreversible public investment, the international curiosity with the decline of global demand, Brexit and the escalation of migratory flows, as well as the slashed budgets for education, health, welfare and social security, which are not approached rationally and overall, have the effect of creating a lasting obstacle to recovery and sustainable development in Greece. Apart from the fact that the government budget does not take into account the above considerations, it does not do a number of other things which would lead to another normality which we support and which I will develop below. This budget, therefore, does not support small and medium-sized and low incomes, does not promote public investment, it does not aim at realistic expenditure containment, it does not support vulnerable social groups in a substantial way, it does not bring substantial tax relief to households, not to professionals or to small and medium-sized enterprises. It is not based on an integrated strategy and operational preparedness plan. Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion on the 2020 budget is one: the government leads us to seemingly normality. It seems obvious, because in words he wants to appear as a government of reformers, but in practice it turns out otherwise. Where to start and where to stop with examples? From the ongoing and urgent drafts without consultation and without compliance with the principles of good legislature? From the offspring of the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs? From the previous foul of the photographic amendment appointing the commander of the NSA, so that it is no longer necessary to hold a university degree for the person to take up this post? From the ‘day’ options for hospital administrators, defying qualifications and selection procedures? From the charge of individuals and businesses with legal status for the actions you brought with a night's parliamentary amendment? Since the gradual abolition of the single payroll, which you have begun to "explore" like the sweater with your recent arrangements in the Ministry of Health Multi-project? From simply extending for a quarter the protection of first home, before threatening mass auctions, even financially weaker borrowers? Instead of treatment, you are giving any problem a short-term painkiller. And all of this, because you've been ready for a long time to rule and win fast victories for total return to normality. Anyone who wants to return to this normality, unfortunately returns to the problems with policies that have failed in the past. And the New Democracy, unfortunately, wants to return us slowly and firmly to the problems of the past, which have led us to the crisis that we have been experiencing over the last ten years, especially when Parliament's legislation is not done with the best possible transparency and accurate assessment of the costs borne by taxpayers by your legislative interventions. The New Democracy, with today's practices, rightly insists that the bad one remind us of what the party was that blew off public debt and led to bankruptcy. We therefore want to define a new regularity in relation to the budget and propose another normality for the future of our country and our fellow citizens. I said last year in the debate on the budget, and I repeat it today that the Minister for Finance must stop being just a wheelchair of expenditure. The philosophy of drafting and structure of the budget must be changed, because in the budget we record how we will manage the efforts and wealth of the Greek people. And this great responsibility after ten years of crisis cannot continue to be exercised in outdated terms and techniques. Another perception of areas that will exceed sterile accounting is needed. It cannot, for example, be based on a budget based on high uncertainty forecasts, such as the 550 million that you estimate will be collected from tax evasion. It reminds me of the calculations of my SYRIZA colleagues in the first quarter, who would collect billions from the Lagard list, the Borgians list and the fight against tax evasion on fuel. What beautiful narratives! Every time, when something is missing in Excel of state receipts, we fill it in with a myth. It is good to be an optimistic one, but the over-optimistic forecasts in a budget are dangerous and lead to deceitful and seemingly normality that I described before. The sense of responsibility of a budget 10 years after the crisis must indicate the continuous reassessment of the objectives set, but also of the performance or non-measures and policies adopted by the government at a time. Perhaps we should, Minister, consider a different role for the General Accounting Office. We therefore need another more modern and measurable way of making use of the Greek taxpayer's money, the resources that it contains, the public land, infrastructure, human resources, what we call the country's social capital. Also, we need to change the philosophy and targeting of the Supreme Court, the commitment to ninety-nine years of the property of the Greeks, a subject on which we will constantly insist as a Change Movement to put it in every public debate. I do not see any revenue from the privatizations of the ELPE and the TEDO that you have announced. Wrong? A budget failure? Can you save us surprises? Does the change in political decisions turn out to be a fait accompli? If that is the case, you change political decisions or you have such intentions, I think we too can agree to a change of policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the seeming regularity of the New Democracy must give its place to another normality that the country needs. And the country needs large direct investment, long-term investments rather than teeming stalkers and opportunistic investors who are weakly inclined to become Hercules. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Skeylakakis, also recognised at a recent event by ELIAMEP that disinvestment will continue in 2020, as investment will fluctuate to 12% of GDP, when the average in the European Union is 20%, with the problem of depreciation remaining.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u28	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u29	Investments said they'd be 12%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u30	Not for 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u31	But?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u32	For the previous one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u33	We'll see what you're targeting. Here we are, to evaluate your efforts. It is an opportunity in the context of the established European budget for 2020-2027, for Greece to take the lead in the signalling proposals of the new Green Deal, the Green Agreement, presented a few days ago by the new European Commission. Green Deal, which will lead us through a sustainable, fair transition to the low-carbon economy, cannot be seen as a neutral low-policy option. It must have a clear progressive mark with the citizen at the centre. And, as the Vice-President of the European Commission said, Social Democrats Franz Timmermanns, presenting the new Green Deal, this contract over and above green must also be social. Because if this Green Agreement is not a social agreement at the same time, then it will not succeed. That is why, in the Change Movement, we say that ambitious targets for all are good, but they must be incorporated into specific commitments and energy projects, the response of the climate crisis and society, in a new integrated green, social, development contract for Greece and Europe. With this account of another regularity for our country and for Europe, we will, in wanting to express and represent young, non-preferential and new generations, defend modern demands for intensified efforts to tackle the climate crisis, adapt our demands of the fourth industrial revolution, strengthen dignity and equality, but also defending labour rights, always contributing to our proposals to reconstituting the middle class, redefining and enlarging it, with incentives, supporting social mobility upwards and not setting up incomes downwards, as the New Democracy suggests or narrates. Ladies and gentlemen, for these reasons and because I refuse to embrace the apparent regularity of the New Democracy, I refuse to vote in favour of this bill and I am voting against the government's budget for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u34	The special rapporteur from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Manolakou, is called in Stepma. Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u35	The state budget reflects the escalation of the anti-population attack and for 2020 as a follow-up to the previous SYRIZA policy. It's in the mid-term and the memoranda, with increased control. In essence, you agree on this strategic convergence of all urban parties, despite your verbal and meaningless differences. The sure thing is that you guarantee the perpetuation of social inequality in order to serve the needs of capital. The same was with last year's budget as with another government. The predicted rate of growth may be estimated at 2.8%, but you are degrading the unscrupulous existential factors here, at our door. Industrial production synchronised shows a fall in Germany, Italy, Spain and the European Union. There is Brexit and the increased chance of crisis in the international economy. Greek-Turkish relations are ahead. The international economic environment is therefore insecure. Don't be misled. Unfortunately, there will also be effects here, in tourism, transport, shipping and more. However, in the 2020 budget, you are taking measures for tax relief - bombardments only for capital, and that is why it is classic and anti-grassy. It is not just that the revenues from taxes by 93% come from tax on people's strata and only provoke 7% of those who concentrate wealth in their hands. And the costs, however, are consumed for the needs of capital and naval equipment to cover the expansional views of Turkey and undermine the sovereign rights of our country and our people. But the pressing needs of the people, the needs of every man, you ignore them, you despise them, you trample them down. That is why there cannot be a philosophical budget in capitalism. No illusions. The individual figures relating to people's needs, health, education for their children, social security, sport, culture, infrastructure, and even entertainment and rest. You grabbed the time of the crisis incomes and rights and the future of the new generation. What do you give? What are you returning to your development now? Nothing! They are gifts to capital to have cheap workers, i.e. reduced labour costs. Survival in your barbaric system has become a daily torture. You force everyone to look for a second job even more poorly paid, uninsured, without rights, to work like a lion to produce goodwill for the big businessmen, so that he can have a life of life. Besides, whatever legislation you passed was in a reactionary and anti-popular direction, with fast track procedures most of the time, in favour of capital and against popular strata. Workers, small and medium-sized, farmers and self-employed were paid. And now, with your development, what are you doing? You support the banks by law, transfer red loans to cords, prescribing intensity of attack on popular property and residence. Of course, in the name of the resolution of the banking system and financing of business groups, you have ensured a state package of EUR 12 billion. So you support the banks on the one hand, while on the other, blackmails and electronic auctions will be intensified for popular residence. And, of course, the protest in auctions has been criminalised since SYRIZA. At the same time, thousands of redundancies and new tax burdens on the people, completing earlier reforms of the SYRIZA government. Hand washing the other both chapters! Where one stops, the other one starts. In fact, in order to blur, to cover up the classity of the anti-grass tough measures, you are presenting as a social policy the mockery of the social dividend for the most impoverished, however, of the bloody, surpluses. You hide that these are the surpluses of the anti-grass attack, above and above the targets set by the previous ones by 3.5% and you continue. Of course, at the same time, a new reduction in pensions is reflected in the social budget, confirming a reduction in pensioners' incomes. Why don't you bring the CSR back to the low pensioners, the thirteenth pension? Why don't you abolish the Katorugalou law? But, because you've got the same strategy with little variations. You are campaigning to reduce contributions to certain categories of insured and professionals. In fact, you are hiding the further privatization of insurance, the further scanning of its social character, which leads to hunger pensions and work to the grave, so that the social security trader can win, that is, money from the insured by privatising the subsidiary. But let us see if you give any breath to the basic people's, human needs. It only sounds like utopia. Another year reduces health and welfare expenditure. The time-limit for moving to insured and insurance funds is increased by more and more of the costs required for the operation of hospitals and primary health. Intensify the freight and entrepreneurial nature of public health. At the same time keep all the carpets and cuts of SYRIZA. The only sure thing is that today's disgusting situation in public hospitals, the deterioration and shrinking of services, will continue to be closed beds in the ICUs, ranches and huge waiting lists for treatments, exams, surgery, which will be long-term. They will continue to be closed medical departments as a result of subscribing and subscribing. However, the operation of public hospitals will be upgraded without account being taken of popular needs. You reach the point of reducing by 48% even social benefits. In other words, uninsured overtime, disability benefits are reduced. They're even cutting off the treatments of children who need special treatment. It's cruel, it's embarrassing! In education, neither the recovery of losses nor the reversal of the overall downturn in funding for the last decade. Functional school maintenance costs have been consistently underfunded over the last ten years, as expenditure in this period has been cut by 70%! There are thousands of gaps that had to be covered by permanent staff. Gradually covered by contractors. Eventually, education is the poor relative of the priorities posed by capitalist development. However, the implementation of the two-year compulsory pre-school education is also in the same step as the previous SYRIZA government. Inappropriate school rooms, while 50% of the school buildings are built fifty years ago without an earthquake regulation. The needs of special education are time-consuming and the shortages of important in special schools. Eventually, the cultural rights of thousands of pupils are being violated, since they do not have the slightest for basic basic needs, which are related to their lives and safety. But you are reducing business taxation. Therefore, the budget figures for 2020 confirm that capitalist growth is not for everyone, but for large capital. The obligation on electronic markets initiated by SYRIZA breaks self-employed with the new increase in 30% of income and, of course, plastic money favours banks. That's the state's continuity! You may advertise that for small-professionals there will be relief from the reduced rate of taxation, but it is automatically depleted by the anticipated increase in the minimum insurance contributions in the new bill. At the same time, which is a temporary reduction in the HPAI, since objective values are pulling up. Finally, the self-employed microprofessional still gets through hard, despite the second year of anaemic recovery. The same applies to small and medium-sized farmers. That's why they're on the streets. The excise duty on oil and other fuels exempts shipowners, airlines and various industries. However, no discounts, no euros for the farm! VAT on farmland is high, while at the same time imported investment gold is exempted from VAT! And on top, you even tax the basic reinforcement of the poor farmers. The concentration of land and production is also speeding up with fiscal tools to the few. You even use the ELGA, which does not compensate all the disasters and pay expensive premiums. Instead, you are using it to privatise ELGA, which is even worse for farmers and workers. The budget finally proves that capitalist development requires sacrifices without a reflection, as it does not get better, but on the contrary makes workers' lives worse. That's why it's not supposed to be a one-way road. For permanent and stable work with decent wages, public health and education, for infrastructures, for the people's needs one-way is the organization of the struggle against monopolistic groups and their profit, their political staff, the capitalist system itself, which for profit goes back to past centuries of slavery. The aim of a quality, superior, human system, socialist, is realistic in terms of capitalist barbarism and inhumanity, as long as the popular counter-attack is organised. And in this sense we welcome today's pan-Hellenic, militant, mass demonstration and course of retired people, who, despite the strong rain, demanded the tenth pension on the road. However, we welcome those who will follow in the next few days. PRESIDENCY (Charalambos Athanasios) The reason is the special rapporteur of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are probably living in different dimensions. As good as my intentions are - and I really have very good intentions - I cannot understand the optimism of your staff. The Greeks, you know, don't lie. We may have other buns, but they're not lying and we're not saying. And I want you to believe - and you know - that 'fat' is over. There is no more "fat" in the Greeks. I once remember these days - although it is the first budget I am participating and I have the honour of being a special rapporteur - in the accounts of most Greeks was believed to be the Christmas gift. They could refresh the Greek families. They've been paying for their obligations. They had fun holidays, without excesses, without waste, fine, beautiful, Greek and family. It was this big breath. Now this state, this state, then, of all these years - which we have come to this day, to you - has set these Greeks up in line and divides them into poverty benefits, allowances of shame. That is the big difference, and that is the central point and this budget. With the benefits of poverty you humiliate their dignity and share aspirins. Aspirins, however, do not cure - believe me - the economic death of our country. I shall be brief, after the analysis of our rapporteur-general, Mr Villardos, with so many details. I want to refer to four pillars. You will allow me, Minister. I'll start with the first pillar, which is illegal immigration. Here we have - and I have said other times, it is an expression that is used - a real surplus, not an economic surplus. We have overruns in illegal immigration. Flows are dramatically increasing. It's a time bomb that counts back inside the country. You're playing with human lives. You condemn Greece in the way you are facing this huge problem and the deadlocked policy that you are following, without plan, a panic government that changes its plan and plan from day to day. And you have budgeted - since we are talking about economic data today, I will not go to the rest - 140 to 150 million for illegal immigration, while our own rough calculations are talking about about 1.8 billion. And I wonder, Minister, if only at 140 million are the costs incurred by the state budget, as we said yesterday, from yesterday's amendment, which you tabled in this violent, unacceptable way, and of course you voted in favour. I now leave illegal immigration. Let's go to the demographics, the huge problem of our country. I will not dwell on what the Greek Solution says, I shall be standing on the report of the House on the demographics. In the coming years, therefore, the forecast for the country's population ranges from 10 to 8.5 million, compared with 11 million in 2015. It is appallingly the numbers and ruthless, a reduction in absolute prices from 0.8 to 2.5 million Greek fellow citizens. Even more pitiful, it's not only those who die, it's the ones who grow old, it's the ones who age. There to see how pitiful the messages we get. According to this report, which I present in the Minutes, the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament - it is not my case, nor my own work - in 2035, the more than sixty-five years and eighty-five years, which in 2015 was 20.9% and 2.8% respectively, will be 27.9% from 20%, that is, plus 8%, and 4.5% from 2.8%. To understand what numbers we're talking about, I'm talking about over sixty-five and over eighty-five. The country's dying, the country's getting old. And, unfortunately, no government manages to save her. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Hetas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now we're going to the two grand that you share for every new kid and you think it's the solution to the demographics. There are few measures that you have taken to support laundry. We've been through this in the last bill. We demanded full tax exemption for these daily heroes, for these Greek heroes, with four, five, six and seven children. You didn't. And for the third parties, you have to give much more, we have submitted them to you one by one, you have the proposals. Even with the disabled, the people with a disability, and that's where you've been baking. It is a good thing that we have had the general outcry, the social outcry, and you realised that the age of HEIs should not be a criterion for their specific allowance. You have to tell the Greeks - this is your purpose here today and not to celebrate, to see the real picture - how you intend to deal with the huge problem of demographics and leave the two grand that you give. Let's go to the third theme, the middle-class bleeding. This middle-class, which has been called upon to lift on its backs of this poor country, the middle-class, which is our economy's blood donor, all these years. And you must, of course, be clear, in the first instance, what we mean 'I am in the middle class'. Because other things we have in mind as a middle-class, and other things we have recently learned from the committees, from Mr Stavoura, that it is the middle-class, which told us that it is the middle-class that takes 500 euros a month, and of course we are astonished. The tax burdens of the Greeks, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are not solved either by mathematical alchemy or theoretical equations. The Greek people have been built by words, promises and theories. And don't say it's the previous people's fault, because that's what you keep saying and when the previous ones took over. You know what? The previous ones are you, the previous ones are you, the same, the many who are from here and many of the people that SYRIZA is trying to integrate now into the new, enlarged centre-left party. That's you, the ones you ruled. These are the other ones, they're not others. We're going to something else now. This is for laughing and crying, laughing. Let's go to “rebrain”, to the six hundred thousand Greeks we sent out, which was also a huge bleeding financially. Let's go “rebrain” now and return, as you advertise, five hundred Greek foreign scientists to work in the private sector in Greece, with a minimum wage of 3,000 euros. Who's coming back? You're going to make some returns for advertising. Which of these Greek-speaking, brilliant minds that have gone out and been established in his profession and have been established and economically, will he return to this country here? Do what, in these prevailing economic circumstances? I read and listen to these words - they are not mine - one of these young people, who in the last four years have left, is in the Middle East and works. They are today's statements at a radio station in Thessaloniki and I will present them in the Minutes and I challenge you to read them. "Only laughter" - says our Greekman, who works abroad in the Middle East - "may bring this announcement. It's a joke. Under no circumstances will I leave all that I have built here in recent years, to come to Greece with the wages that I have theoretically promised for a year and without any prospect for a second. What I'm going to say to whoever asks me is these three grand to give it to you, who have stayed in Greece or to give it to our parents and your parents, who are retired." These are the statements of our new, twenty-five-year-old fellowman, who lives here for four years, works and acknowledged his value and ability, unfortunately, abroad. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Hetas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We're going to another chapter now, after we talked about illegal immigration, after we talked about demographics, after we talked about the bleeding of the middle class. Let's go see some equipment, a fresh subject we talked about yesterday. Because we say that a country to be serious and powerful must have a strong economy and a strong defence, Armed Forces and a strong defence line. That's what we're talking Unfortunately, our country is being misled in both ways. Yesterday we voted for the bill, and we did well, and we voted for it. But today there are news, ladies and gentlemen, with the Turks saying that they will accompany - listen a little - their research drones, the 'UAV', in the occupied Cyprus, in our Cyprus. That is to say, they will send the research boats and the drones will be accompanied by them. And you know what we're talking about? We are talking about a new state-of-the-art Turkish, over-drone - so I shall call it - with inconceivable autonomy, with an inconceivable range, which can carry up to nine hundred pounds - close to the tone - and the week that passed has even been the first flight. What does that mean? This means that they have jumped, unfortunately, the Turks in armaments, while we are coming out of a long neglect of defence. This is 'Akinci', which I present in the Minutes, the new state-of-the-art super-drone of the Turks. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Hetas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We now go to the F-16 upgrade, which took place yesterday, in the 'Viper' version, which will be completed after four to five years, in 2023 to 2024. At this time, we will upgrade them, after we have managed to unblock - oh, what shame! - the spare parts and screws to come to Greece, because we didn't have to pay them. The Turks, in the medium term, will acquire the Sukhoi 35 by 2003 and the Stealth Sukhoi 57. And all this at the same time, that is, again, will be five to six years ahead of us. What I'm saying is that we'd have an advantage in the air if the upgrade of the Greek F 16 had been completed today. And you are coming, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, into the orchestra, the one I have described, and you are telling us that you have the solution to save our economy. And before the elections, you promised other things, including illegal immigration, etc., but you didn't do anything, ashes in the eyes. With this budget that you have drawn up, you try to throw ashes into the eyes of the Greeks, since others are presenting them and, unfortunately, other is the reality and reality is reflected in everyday life, out in life, not in this Chamber, not in these papers, not in the economic tables you have presented. So tell us, do you not ash in the eyes of our fellow citizens when you strive to reduce some tax rates, but at the same time pay 323 million more taxes for 2020? Isn't that ash in the eyes? Do you not ash in the eyes of the Greeks when you increase the indirect taxes? Isn't the VAT increased by nearly 500 million this year in the budget? Isn't it? Are not taxes increased by EUR 89 million? Do I read wrong? Help me, I might be wrong. Am I wrong to read that the State's revenue from taxes, imports, is projected to be EUR 322 million, that is, increased by EUR 18 million compared to 2019? Or is it a lie that for 2020 taxes on goods and services will be increased by EUR 637 million? Are these tax reliefs? Is that a development policy? Give one, take multiples. I told you at the beginning, another hole in the Greek's belt isn't left. We're done. You asked the low-pensioners how they walk, how do those who are still waiting to walk after three or four years to get their pensions that haven't come out yet? And you promised them that you would resolve this matter and it has still not been resolved. It's not solved yet. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] You don't care to alleviate the middle class. All you care about is getting numbers, numbers, numbers, getting out the numbers! You don't care to relieve the middle class. They clearly demonstrate that your budget is not successful, it is subjective, it is pretextful. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say - and we are clear in every bill and in this case in the budget - that the Greek solution clearly supports what fiscal policy measures improve the financial situation of Greece. A proper budgetary policy, however, must include a fair distribution of tax burdens. We must at some point return the sacrifices made by the Greek citizen for at least the last ten years. And if we are talking about numbers and numbers - and I particularly address the economists who are in this Chamber and the Ministers for Economy and Finance, who are talking about numbers and numbers - you should know that behind these figures people, Greek citizens, who are trying to stand up for dignity on their feet. They are people for whom your policy needs to be designed and not your numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr. Heta, for the time. I should like to inform you that the procedure with the rapporteurs will be completed today. Tomorrow morning, we will continue with the speakers at 10 a.m. Now Mr. Logiadis has the floor from Mera25
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, Mr Pharakakis, I have received a message from the IMF, the International Monetary Fund, right now. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Skylakakis, just now said that the primary surpluses are related to the debt sustainability analysis, Debt sustainability analysis, which an analysis shows that since the elections, following the takeover of government by the New Democracy, the sustainability of our debt becomes better. Specifically, he said that we would arrive 'before five or six years at 100% of the debt. This is extremely important." Unfortunately, reality is different. I should like to inform Mr. Skulakakis that the International Monetary Fund says in his report about Greece a month ago: "The International Monetary Fund provides for the debt ratio to be increased by 10% by 2028 to a level which is higher than the corresponding forecast in March 2019. The IMF predicts that both nominal GDP and the irrational ones - let me say - primary surplus targets will move to lower levels in the period 2019-2025, while debt service expenditure will remain high. Let me read in English the text: ‘The IMF now sees the debt - to - GDP rationing by about two percentage points by 2028 to a level that is higher than that in March 2019 analyst in March 2019 analysis as a “lower nominal GDP and primary surplus paths during 2019 to 2025 under current policies more than those below designed soverning costs”. Let's go to our budget now. The budget structure for 2020 remains committed to the spirit of austerity and containment of public expenditure in order to achieve once again the primary surplus that has been imposed on us and which, of course, strangles our economy and our people. The 2020 budget is based on the assessment that Greece will have a GDP growth of 2.8%. However, the OECD estimates it at 2.1%, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission at 2.3% and the Bank of Greece at 2.4%. So there is already an over-evolution on the basis of the budget. Here we have to stress that other growth and growth of GDP. Growth requires a spread of prosperity throughout society, while growth is just a numerical imprint. Therefore, in contrast to the over-estimating targets of the 2020 budget, we should also take into account the risks of externally unstable factors which could negatively affect its smooth implementation. Some such are international protectionism, the international economic unstable environment with negative interest rates. This huge liquidity bubble is a very big threat and also climate change. However, even with the most overestimated forecasts, public debt will remain at 330 billion or 167% of GDP, unsustainable and disastrous for all. Taxation and investment are the main components of a budget. Regarding taxes, most of the taxes in Greece are taxes on the consumption of products and services. These are indirect taxes. Direct taxes on income rather than consumption are more fair, because they are linked to people's incomes and the tax rate is changing on the basis of income, which is not the case with indirect taxes. The ratio of indirect taxes to direct taxes in 2017 was 1,63. In 2018, it increased to 1,66, 2019 to 1,67 and 2020 to 1,71, when the opposite is true in the other countries of the European Union. This growing proportion of indirect taxes to direct taxes makes the sense of injustice more pronounced among citizens and more for the economically weaker citizens. In direct taxes income tax by natural persons is increased. In 2019, it was EUR 11,092,000,000 and is estimated to go to 11,415,000, while the income tax paid by companies is falling from EUR 4,4 billion to about EUR 4 billion. Reducing the tax advance from 100% to 95% actually helps very large companies, banks and industries. For too many small and economically weak it's just mocking. Even in the regular real estate taxes, HNVIA, an increase of 84 million euros from the 2020 budget is foreseen, which means that the majority of the landowners earned very small and small real estate from the reduction of HNVY in 2019 will be invited to return them multiplely due to the integration into the system of objective property off-project, which are now being taxed, and also due to the further increase of existing objective values. Any tax reliefs are unequally distributed in favour of the large business sector. For example, the reduction of the income tax on legal persons from 28% to 24% with the paradox, however, is more than 30%, as the Minister has said. But even when these companies are able to migrate to other European Union countries with lower rates of taxation, for example in Bulgaria or Luxembourg, or even make use of tax havens within the European Union, these possibilities are not for small and very small or medium-sized enterprises, and that is a problem. Further, the reduction of the profit tax from 10% to 5% is benefiting the very large ones again. Why not abolish the trade tax and the solidarity tax, since, as you say, we are out of order? Furthermore, any tax reliefs that have been introduced - and now I will replicate "NAYTEMPORIC" on November 23, 2019 - is to the benefit of a few large foreign and domestic enterprises with high real estate value in our country. It is characteristic that only the tax provisions of foreigners, which were introduced for the benefit of six thousand seven hundred ninety-two foreign and other immovable companies in Greece, cause an annual loss of tax revenue of approximately EUR 3.5 billion. With regard to investment, a basic pillar within the budget, I quote recently from the study by the Hellenic Chamber of Economics on the 2020 budget. I read on page 28: "The failure to increase investment becomes apparent if the actual result is compared to the targets set each year in the state budget". There has never been a place in economic history that came out of the crisis without a large and targeted public investment programme. But how can we do this when we are hand-to-hand with the memorial and austerity programmes of Brussels and Berlin? Already five countries of the European Union, as far as I know, between France and Italy, are violating the budgetary objective by increasing their public spending. They say unilaterally not to further austerity, increasing their public investment and thus gain a greater degree of freedom in the exercise of budgetary policy and thus, in their citizens' dignity and well-being. There are strong pressures across Europe, including by the European Central Bank, even by the German industrialists, to significantly increase public spending and investment, particularly in infrastructure and environmentally friendly development. What do we do? On the contrary. For this, the front of the European Realist Disobedience has tabled concrete proposals, for example on taxation, the abolition of 100% of tax advance, the restructuring of debt and its connection to GDP growth, as was done with Germany in the 1953 London Agreement, where Greece as a winner country signed. I will continue with the positions and study of the Chamber of Economics of Greece again, on page 30: "Everything shows that the strategic objective of revising the budgetary surplus is the only realistic proposal for growth". In this direction, the meetings of Yiannis Varoufakis throughout Europe are essential to enable pan-European alliances necessary to achieve this objective. I would just like to stress the realistic disobedience which is the main pillar of the Mera25 programme. Only when we Greeks say no, standing up, say no, as in 1940, as in the battle of Crete, as every time in every Thermopylae we call molecules and don't bend the head to cut it off, as it is now, only then they count us, we write history, we have dignity and freedom. I close for investments, saying that investments made over recent years are not sufficient to cover depreciation. So basically we have clean disinvestment. As regards the composition of public expenditure: there is a constant reduction in social benefits. According to budget figures, the social benefits in 2017 were EUR 2.3 billion, in 2018 with EUR 1,945 billion, in 2019 the estimate is that they will be made at EUR 1,68 billion and in 2020 a further contraction to EUR 1,5 billion and the same applies to transfers. These figures are from the budget submitted to Parliament and the Chamber of Economics of Greece. Thus, everywhere, time-consuming reductions are recorded that are clearly burdening the economically weak as well as many others. State expenditure on most social areas, such as education, health, culture, support for the weaker, social welfare, whether they are stagnated or have a cut in the State budget of 2020. In the health sector public expenditure is reduced by EUR 182 million. In culture they are reduced by 61 million euros and in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs they are reduced by 382 million euros. You reduced the VAT from 24% to 13% for the two-circuit helmets. Very well, we fully agree. However, I would like you to make substantial investments in education with many teachers everywhere in Greece, across all regions, as well as in infrastructure to support and develop the networks and the BOAK and the police with staff recruitment and the purchase of equipment, patrols and other means, for example, drones. These would result in social security for traffic accidents. In education we still have schools without teachers today, there have been undetermined non-determined teachers through ASPs, because they have not paid the online paradox of 3 euros. Cheers, we've been subsidizing at all levels. I have tabled a question for a long time about the Psychiatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion Crete and the corresponding structures in Eastern Crete, but I have received no reply. Spain and Portugal have maintained education and health outside programmes. Finally, I would add that even today there are too many applications for the payment of pensions, and there is also no provision for the payment of retrospectives decided by the Council of State. Finally, if the medium-term final debt repayment rate is higher than GDP growth, then we will still have new memos, new cuts. We are voting against the 2020 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, can I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u40	Minister, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u41	You will allow me, on the occasion of the last introduction, to make a few other suggestions from colleagues who have heard that I have two minutes of your time to clarify three key issues. I am putting creative ambiguity and unnecessary ones aside, not because we have seen how much they have cost the country, especially by people who are leading the respective parties, but to get to the point. Debt sustainability: We'll say it just too simple for the citizens to understand. Let's just say a civilian owes a bank. When is his debt viable? Depending on its height and the ability to repay it. So when we assess the public debt, we should assess its amount and the annual financial needs. That makes a debt sustainable. The viability definition does not exist. Absolute definition of debt sustainability does not exist. The combination of the two makes the characteristics of the debt viable. Therefore, we have said our view, which is based, is based on evidence. I heard the speaker from Mera25 invoking the IMF. I suppose you're matching the IMF. We did not invoke the IMF, and we consider that the IMF is making mistakes in its assessments, as we have seen in the past. Let me remind you that the figures you say are in April 2019. Economic developments have not even been integrated in the past six months. What did Mr. Scully say? He said obviously to go down the primary surpluses, you'd have to enhance the sustainability of the debt. We are aiming in 2020 to highlight this issue with four main arguments: Higher rates of economic growth, low borrowing costs, premature repayment of the International Monetary Fund - already made - and the use of ANFAs and SMPs of profits from the retention of European bonds, Greek bonds by European banks, for development purposes. These four elements enhance the sustainability of public debt significantly, especially the denominator, so we can safely claim lower primary surpluses. Second point: right, other growth, other development. We have made some estimates and some forecasts and will be evaluated for them. So far we've fallen into assessments. You, the opposition, think we are very optimistic and invoke the elements of the institutions and bodies. After you invoke them, you accept them. So you accept that the economy will not run by 2.8%, it will run by 2.3%. So, to reach agreement, you accept that 2020 will be better than 2019. After invoking the evidence of others, he goes on to say that you accept it - I repeat it. So in this Chamber we all agree that 2020 will be better than 2019, because there is no estimate of less than 2.2% for 2020. I say that to agree. Third remark and I'm closing. Indeed, taxes are higher, but not higher tax burdens, but from the fact that, due to the growth of the economy, the tax base is expanding and increasing, so we expect to have more revenues. When I hear the opposition, in particular, saying, "but with what you do in the budget and reducing the tax on businesses you are actually helping a few companies that are profitable", the opposition does not first realize that it is shooting its feet, because it is like saying that it left a few profitable businesses. So you accept that you have effectively exaggerated households and businesses. Since I do not like to be aboard, I will mention two elements: average tax burden for legal persons EUR 13,244 in 2014 and EUR 16,457 in 2017. For those who are cut by the Civic Opposition on Great wealth, from 2014 to 2017, legal persons with profits of more than 7.5 million euros have increased by 41.77% and small businesses with profits of up to 1.2 million euros have decreased by a thousand nine hundred ninety-eight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u42	Mrs Makrei has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Responsibility for the answers you have given, Minister, but I think that you and all the financial staff will have realised that it is very easy to make in vitro policy and very difficult to make in vivo policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government, faithful to its election commitments, by tabling this draft budget for the year 2020, the first budget of the New Democracy Government with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, gives a clear signal to all citizens. The policies which are now being planned and implemented by this government are non-class policies. They are addressed to all Greek women and all Greeks, without punishing the middle class, as was done for four and a half years with the Government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks, but without being wronged by those who really need it. They are politically realistic to restore the normalization and strengthening of the country's economy in an environment of enhanced surveillance by the European Union, while taking into account the ideological and political context of the New Democracy, social liberalism and the social market economy. They are policies that strike a balance between economic efficiency and social justice, but above all, ladies and gentlemen, they are policies that are geared to helping the development process by strengthening investment. Of course, we must not forget that this budget has been drawn up in the face of an external environment characterised by increased uncertainty at global level. In the Balkans, the current situation cannot be regarded as completely stable and predictable, in the Eastern Mediterranean it is considered succumbingly worrying, while in Europe there is a deep embarrassment. This embarrassment stems primarily from Brexit and its subsequent consequences, the unpleasant predictions of weaker economic growth and the intensity between relations between monetary and fiscal policy. At the same time, in Greece from the start of the crisis to the forefront, unfortunately, a large investment gap has been created. This gap is the result of the successive shrinking of the volume of investments in the first phase of the crisis, the sharp deterioration of business expectations and liquidity conditions in 2015 due to the violent policies implemented by the then government, with the culmination of the imposition of restrictions on capital movements and the contraction of investments in 2018. The reversal of this situation and the dynamic reversal of the number of investments in the Greek economy, notably by reforms on multiple fronts that support employment and investment, is now being called upon to achieve the new government. The 2020 budget provides for a significant increase in the growth rate from 1.5% observed in the first half of 2019 to 2.8%, while achieving the agreed surplus of 2.5%, but also a total surplus of 1.2% against ESA 2010. It provides for a further reduction in unemployment and a significant increase in private consumption, reflecting the increase in the available incomes of all citizens by reducing tax rates, such as income tax, real estate taxes, special tax incentives, and by improving economic activity, while seeking to achieve as close as possible the objective of the surplus in order to avoid unexplained and unjustified overexplained excess observed in the period 2016-2018. It is therefore understood that the new government with this budget will in no way allow the taxpayers and the Greek economy to bear excessive tax burden. That's it. After all, in the first five months of its governance, New Democracy has effectively demonstrated its commitment to this effort, by increasing the growth rate of the economy, the complete lifting of capital restrictions, the budgetary discipline of the General Government's bodies, the adoption of realistic expenditure ceilings, the assessment of public expenditure, the reinforcement of electronic transactions, the increased revenues from regulation of the gambling market, the promotion of public-private partnerships, as well as the result of the implementation of the new regulation framework for public debts. Ladies and gentlemen, I will concentrate on budgetary revenue. Net revenues following the reduction of taxes are projected to be EUR 54,710 million, increased by EUR 448 million or 0.8% compared to 2019 estimates and will, first, come from the revenues of the Public Investment Programme, secondly, from financial transactions and thirdly, from non-financial transactions. Revenue from the Public Investment Programme is projected to amount to EUR 4,100 million, increased by EUR 376 million compared to the 2019 estimates. On a cash basis, these are provided for in the EUR 3,679 million, increased by EUR 130 million compared to the 2019 estimates, because the public investment programme is planned to be restructured by strengthening the co-financed part and ending the under-utilisation it characterised in recent years. A key source of revenue for the financing of ILO projects is inputs from the European Union's financial instruments. The financial transactions for debt securities, the proceeds from debt-settled investments in OSE and OSH bonds, which have returned to the occupation of the Greek State after the PSI, are projected to EUR 550 million, while the proceeds from sales of shares in different listed companies and not on the Stock Exchange of Greek State or GOI are projected to amount to EUR 2,063 million. From non-financial transactions, social contributions revenue is projected to be EUR 55 million, without any change since 2019. The transfer revenues are expected to amount to EUR 4.592 million, reduced by EUR 248 million compared to the 2019 estimates, as they result from the transfer of returns due to the Greek State’s holding of bonds in the portfolios of the Eurosystem central banks. Sales of goods and services are expected to receive revenue of EUR 687 million, increased by EUR 19 million. Other current revenues are projected to be EUR 1.806 million, reduced by EUR 508 million due to the provision of reduced dividend income, the European Union's own resources repayments, and the ESA adjustments to the national part of the EIF. The sale of fixed assets provides for revenues of EUR 332 million, increased by EUR 306 million due to the collection of the fee from the use of the area of the former Greek International Airport. Reimbursements of unduly collected revenues are projected to be EUR 4.926 million, reduced by EUR 106 million or EUR 2.1%. At the same time, for 2020 a key governmental option is the rational management of public property and privatisation, with the aim of ensuring significant and stable public revenues on a long-term basis, declining debt and creating additional development benefits. This policy is based on the recording, protection and exploitation of public real estate and the modernisation and simplification of procedures and the existing legislative framework. In conclusion, the budget shows that the country's economy has positive momentum, while it has all the prospects for improvement, stabilisation and capitalisation, as long as we are all helpless in the work of the government to move forward with stable, householded and hierarchical stepping up, taking into account the lessons of long-term adventure due to errors not only of our own, but of others. We should all be coordinated with patriotic consciousness, not to dedicate ourselves, but to think that with wisdom and determination, without personal and party calculations, without populism and elitism, we will give our children security and prosperity in the future. It is therefore self-evident and necessary to vote in favour of this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mrs McCrey, and for the time. Mr Mouraite has the floor from SYRIZA
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is the 'pilot' of the governments concerned. This budget we are debating today is faithful to the neoliberal ideology that gives a lot to the few and a few. Your hundred and fifty days of government were enough, gentlemen of the government, to reveal your true face. The policy that you are following, but also your stigma, is now clear. It is now clear that you are not committed to your promises to the Greek people, but are committed to the promises you made to BSE, the country's state-owned entrepreneurship and your party army. You legislate about them and you're with them. The hundred and fifty days were enough to break down as a paper tower all your election record that you would bring new jobs, good jobs, development arrangements and changes that you would strengthen the middle-class and, above all, medium-sized entrepreneurship, that you are the guru of the economy, the negotiations and foreign policy. You blamed SYRIZA and you, but also an entire media system, for a long time, for impervious populism. The default of promises, the deception of the extreme right-wing audiences that you built in an election with the Prespes and the refugee, your great election promises of the middle-class went for a walk. But what's all this? You spoke - I want to remind you - of excellence and you were presenting yourself as defenders of dignity in the country and at the first opportunity you attacked SYRIZA officials and collaborators by committing murders of characters. And when you came to power, how did you act? You have created a very cost-effective Greek state-of-the-art army of party actors by friends and relatives. You've even changed the law to open up the way to those who didn't qualify to be able to cope with positions of responsibility. Recently we have had foreign translations to which you have also given a governmental dome. I am referring, of course, to the most famous case of Mr Diadiaris, your party leader in the family. In short, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you are the epitome of populism, deception and hypocrisy. We saw your development bill that says all of this in a word. It was a set of antique settings and photographic devices. You have hit the work acquisitions and chose to support business areas with small growth potential, but mainly interests that you support and specific entrepreneurs. But what's the worst thing you've ever done? You were indifferent to the backbone of Greek entrepreneurship, to small, very small or medium-sized enterprises in the country. In the tax bill, which was the continuation of development, what did you do? You have legislated on tax relief for the few and continued austerity for many. A train example was the farmers who listened to the big election speeches and Mr Mitsotakis and many of you. And what did they see? The reduction they will see in the tax advance will of course be 5%, while the tax rate at 9% at 10,000 is only 10% of them. I would like at this point to make a comment on the burning issue of the days. We are in progress, ladies and gentlemen, in the complex and degraded situation with Turkey, a situation which, of course, did not come as lightning lightnings. From you what do we see all the time before? Multiple preparation, contradictions and embarrassment. We criticised you, of course. But not by opposition mania, but to put it well in your mind by a patriotic duty. And you charged us with populism about it. You who, without any shame, accused Alexis Tsipras of selling Macedonia in exchange for the pension cut. We will not follow you on this slippery road at this crucial moment for the country and we will not copy you. We will not take advantage of issues of the utmost national importance to split up and to fish for the blurred waters, as you have also done in the run-up to the Prespecies Agreement, but also with all the investment you have made in the refugee question. I'm afraid you've had winds and I'm sure you'll reap storms. The budget you have brought in, ladies and gentlemen, is still a mismatch of words and actions. It seals the total restoration of your election account. According to this, the evil and anti-developmental SYRIZA who was over-taxing the middle-class was on the one hand and you, on the other, who, as a magician of the economy, would bring the economic miracle and change the data. This piece of legislation, however, faithfully serves the dogmatic strangles of a neoliberal and cruel policy. And, of course, it is a long way from meeting the needs of the citizens, but above all, the sustainable development that our country needs. It is an anti-development budget, an anti-social budget, an anti-social one. And the country is not, I would like to remind you, under budgetary adjustment no longer. It seems, however, that the memos for some were not necessary, but I fear that they were, are and will be a policy compass in the future. SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen, has given you a Greek who had begun to move towards clarity with many things that should be done. You cannot deny that since the first half of 2019, we have seen unemployment falling into ten percentage points since 2015, that in 2018 it was a record year for foreign direct investment in the country, that SYRIZA has managed to build a profitable state of 3.5 billion when it was received in 1.4 billion. I could mention more indicators. I close with the 37 billion-dollar pillow, which was very important. Instead of taking advantage of all this development and economic environment, because you are the first government in 15 years' time to come to things with such favourable conditions, you are bringing an anti-government budget. When we debated the budget in the committees, I would like to remind everyone of you. You argued that we were leaving behind the overtaxation mainly of the middle-class that has folded the economy. But to say things with their name. To formulate this, or you have not studied the budget you bring or continue to sell to the Greek people seaweed for silk ribbons. Because in this budget that has been signed you include all twenty-eight out of the twenty-nine unjust taxes of the SYRIZA, as you described them. The only tax exempted is the tax on large companies. Greek taxpayers will pay 323 million euros more tax despite your election announcements. This is a burden you consciously choose to fall on the shoulders of natural persons in order to alleviate legal persons, namely companies. You increase VAT revenue and excise duty on goods and services by EUR 563 million compared to the 2019 estimate. In other words, you are supporting indirect taxation on products that have an insurmountable demand, without taking into account income criteria into account. This will, of course, also increase the proportion of indirect and direct taxes, with lower income levels being affected by this policy. You forget, of course, the further reduction of the ENPIA to 30% that you promised. You are hitting the social state with your budget, as I said before, in such difficult circumstances that the previous government builds up by reducing the social solidarity benefits granted by OPEKA by 367 million. Next target health. We see in the budget the budget to launch cuts of EUR 37 million for the financing of new hospitals. You have decided in the budget to allocate EUR 700 million to cut taxes on enterprises and dividends they distribute. In this way it is now clear to all of us, but above all to the Greek people that you are favouring about five hundred - six hundred of the largest companies in the country, the colossus and the companies with profits of more than 2.5-3 million. It is to them that you are giving an average of over EUR 700,000 a year when small, medium-sized or micro-enterprises at the same time see a minimum reduction that starts from EUR 200 and can reach EUR 1500. The market, however, would allow me to say, was in need of new tools. The market needs incentives for investment rather than incentives to distribute money as gifts to capitalists. It wanted to reduce the tax rate to 50% for businesses and free trade, abolishing the trade fee, and wanted to reduce the solidarity levy. Of course, you left all this aside in this budget. The least state, which you proclaimed in the election, is becoming more and more expensive, as you plan to spend huge sums per Ministry, having added the category "complete coordination". Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this is a vicious cycle of unequal burdens, unfair taxes and excessive gifts in colossals. With this budget, all you do is to resurrect a finished global model for the economy, what it says is that "by reducing taxes, increasing profits, profits will bring investments and jobs investments". I won't go to India or to Thatcher or bring Reagan as an example. But the example is ours, it's here, it's the model Horsescoof, which led the country to the rocks with the known results for all of us. You go, with the same materials, to make the same recipe and I'm very afraid that you will bring the same and worst results. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. Your recipe, ladies and gentlemen, will not stabilise the economy. For us, the stabilisation of the economy was the weapon against inequality, not an opportunity for gifts to the few to the detriment of the many. You are with the country's five hundred businesses against the whole real economy that fought in the years of the crisis, was held up and managed to survive. You're with the bankers and you're legislating for them. You are with the underlying businessmen to whom you have made the gift through the provision in the amendment to the Criminal Code. You are the government of the few and mighty, populism, hypocrisy and deception. We're going to fight the battle next to the world of work. We'll give the battle next to the farmer, the new scientist, the unemployed. We will fight the healthy productive forces against all the transients and the parasitic capital of the country. We will give the battle of truth, give the battle of patriotic responsibility "with reason and a dream". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u46	Thank you. Mr Spanakis has the floor from New Democracy. We will continue with Mr Papachristopoulos, Mr Katrinis and Mrs Tsabika, with whom the process will be completed. Here, Mr Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget debate started a few hours ago, a debate that will be concluded on Wednesday with its vote. We have these days to inform the Greek people who have been following us sincerely and with simple words and tell him what is changing, what is coming, and of course, what we are leaving behind, what are the prospects of the Greek economy and what have been the thorns of recent years, which have led the country to a dead end. I really want to thank my resignation, which gives me the opportunity to be one of the rapporteurs of our first budget. Ladies and gentlemen, with the 2020 budget we continue the positive policy bar, not because the SYRIZA government has torn up with a law and an article, not because SYRIZA has abolished HNVIA, not because SYRIZA has left us full of funds and the economy blossom, but because the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, of the New Democracy implements in full what it has promised by election. With the 2020 budget we leave from the time of overtaxation and disinvestment and go to the era of opportunities. New words come in our daily vocabulary, such as social justice, credibility of the Greek economy and trust. The budget goes away from wishing and wishing and converging to realism. This budget finally zeros the inappropriate surplus paid by Greek households, which was deducted from the Greek economy, amounting to EUR 11.4 billion in the period 2016-2018. I would like to answer seven main questions concerning the 2020 budget. The first question: does this budget respect many or few? The answer is clear. This budget is for everyone. It is not wrong for some, for the benefit of others, because quite simply the New Democracy's policy at all levels is not intended to divide Greek society, but to give the life of all. The second question is: does this budget build the extroversion of the Greek economy? Does it, in short, open the door to the investments? The answer is 'yes', since it leads our country to attracting investment and, above all, through lowering tax rates. Just! It's forbidden - look out! - and it does not prohibit investment, as the main instrument for economic policy and development. We're changing the country's development profile, focusing on investment. This is the comparative advantage of this 2020 budget, with simple words. In particular, it provides for an increase in investment by 13.1%. And don't prejudge to cancel that prediction, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Because, I would like to remind you that in the 2018 budget, on page 28, if I am not mistaken, you predicted an increase in investment by 11.4% and eventually brought a reduction of 12.2%. So you were different from your target close to the 25 percentage points. The answer is that the seal of a different economic policy, in relation to the past, will lead to a high rate of growth. We are talking about increasing GDP by 2.8% at constant prices and 3.8% at current prices. The two components of GDP that will define the final formulation of the growth rate for 2020, of course, and are private consumption and investment. We are laying the foundations, creating another investment climate and, of course, we are not triumphing with development crowns. The main thing is that there is an ideal climate of confidence in the Greek economy towards the markets. This is evidenced by the fact that our country is already borrowing cheaply and, of course, by the fact that the economic climate index is touching other times and finally shows that Greece is coming out of the crisis. Third question: Does this government budget confirm development policy? The answer is yes, because it includes three types of intervention: social, developmental and, of course, improvement of the budgetary effect. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth a little while to focus on social interventions, which are interventions for all. For family and childbirth: 135 million. An allowance of EUR 2 000 to the new families and to every child born: this is translated into 123 million. Infantry and safety helmets at low VAT rate: 12 million. For the natural persons who you say we favour businesses: 404 million. Will you vote against this budget? We are going to reform the income tax on natural persons with an import rate of 9% and an increase in tax on each child and we have calculated 281 million. We are talking about a reduction in insurance contributions for full-time workers and we have calculated 123 million. For businesses, we reduce the tax from 28% to 24% and we have calculated 541 million. But companies employ workers, companies pay workers and labour contributions. We reduce the tax on distributed profits from 10% to 5% to get the economy ahead, so that we can get liquidity. For the construction activity, we bring a suspension to the building for three years. We've estimated them at 26 million. Of course, we are also inhibiting the value tax - we have to talk about it in this Chamber - and reimbursement of expenditure on renovation in the upgrading of buildings. So if that is what you want to vote against, we are here and we will be judged on the result. All this is 1.2 billion. But let us also see development interventions. After limiting operating and other expenditure under-utilisations, with the adjustment of expenditure ceilings in the ordinary budget, 500 million. Since the restructuring of the public investment programme, with the support of the co-financed part, 170 million has been committed. We're going to an overview of general government expenditure and revenue. Increase general government revenues 134 million. Reduction of general government expenditures of 50 million. Improving efficiency of general government 123 million. We are going to combat tax evasion and to extend the tax base by means of measures to promote e-commerce, which you have judged and condemned, 557 million. We have broadened the tax base and increased the income from real estate from the Airbnb. We have an increase in revenue and new forms of airbnb control by 60 million. More than 2 billion will be the turnover of the leases in 2019. We are going to streamline the system of determining the objective values by 142 million and over a thousand areas, as the Minister has committed himself to the Committee of Parliament. So we'll really bring a justice instead of you going out and talk, when you brought up values even in people's areas, like the Gigifis, where the increase was 48%. I have already heard in this Chamber the previous Minister. We're going to raise revenues from online games by 73 million. Acceleration of tax disputes by 50 million. Now we're going to $1.85 billion. But should we also see the interventions to improve the financial result? This budget aims to create an effective and less expensive state, to reshape the public investment programme, as I have said before, but there is also an overview of expenditure and revenue. Question IV: Does this budget ensure a sound, substantial and modern social policy? The answer is yes, since it aims to support weaknesses, to create jobs, to reduce contributions by five percentage points in the next four years. In particular, the reduction of insurance contributions to employed work by 0.9 percentage points starting in the second half of 2020 has been integrated, while progressing towards a fair and rational reform of the social security system. Continuing funding, the operation of social poverty structures, has been ensured. Our Government's priority is to maintain the net of social protection through benefits, prosperous, family and others. At the same time, we are moving towards measures that will significantly reduce unemployment in 2020, with institutional and organisational intervention on the labour market. Our aim is to alleviate the consequences of unemployment. It is worth mentioning something that I did not hear in this Chamber in the so-called social budget, which improves by EUR 187 million compared to that in 2019. Will you vote against the social budget, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Question fifth: Does this budget incorporate sufficient tax relief? Ladies and gentlemen, I will simply say that it brings tax relief and tax incentives, which exceed 1 billion, and through the implementation of the new economic policy it creates conditions for attracting investment, creating new jobs and increasing consumption. All this leads to a basic path along the road to increasing real income. We are going to strengthen electronic transactions, electronic books, to combat tax evasion. We're adjusting the online betting market. We budget that more than EUR 557 million will be brought about by the fight against tax evasion. This budget does not come with a single new tax and we convert the insurance system that we inherited from a second tax mechanism to a real insurance system that will bring benefits to the beneficiaries. We are moving on to combat tax evasion and to various cooperation. We respect the trouble of every taxpayer, the retired. The two tax laws lay the foundations of another tax policy. Reductions in tax rates will make a decisive contribution to the fight against tax evasion, through an organised framework of tax and customs controls. The public debt could be seen and analysed in many respects. However, what is of great importance is the combined prospects for the sustainability of the debt, but also of natural and legal persons. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to see what proportion of GDP was due in 2014 and what percentage in 2019. This is the legacy of SYRIZA's economic policy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a moment more. We should not denounce the historical fact that the Greek State has borrowed in the short term, through the issue of the Greek three-month interest rates for the first time at a negative interest rate in the auctions and October 2019, and also in November 2019. Confidentiality was also expressed by the significant reduction in the interest rates on 10-year bond issues, from 3,875% in March to 1.5% in October 2019. Question 6, to say it all: Is this budget realistic and effective? Yes, it is realistic, because it responds to today's needs, it gives the real, accurate, but also a thorough assessment of both the revenue and expenditures of 2020. And you know why it's gonna work? Because he has realistic goals. We must also stand in the positive statements from the international community on the 2020 budget. This budget eradicates the red line of the past and reflects the new, stable, developmental policy of this government, leaving behind ideas, experiments and populism without reflection, of the recent past. This budget, not only covers the budgetary gap, which the new government inherited for the current and next year, but also creates the financial area for the current and significant reduction in tax rates, the increase in public investment and the triggering of a cycle of economic progress over the coming years. Mr President, Question 7, which we have to answer. Ladies and gentlemen, does this budget give priority? He even puts specifics. He's talking about increasing GDP by 2.8%...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Comrade, you've taken the time you requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u49	It is talking about increasing private consumption by 1.8%, which will also come through increased jobs. It is committed to reforms and it is no coincidence that the budget vote comes after our Parliament has passed two tax laws, the draft "HRAKLIS", a development law and, of course, the Greek economy has gained credibility. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a desire for reforms to proceed with a positive impact on households and businesses in local communities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u50	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u51	We convert Greece into the confiscations we inherited from you in Greece of opportunities and social justice. I am pleased that this budget also includes privatizations, where we will have the most revenues in the last decade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Colleague, you've reached fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u53	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I am pleased that much of the democracies are being implemented in my constituency. I would also like to thank my fellow citizens from my constituency, which is in the gallery, an area that wants to have new jobs, and that is what local government wants. And this will happen to Alimos, Greek, Argiroupolis, Glyfada, with an impact on the entire Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greeks are proud. The uncertainty, however uncertain it entered our homes, is now leaving day after day. With these considerations, I call for the 2020 budget to be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u54	Thank you. Here, Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u55	I believe that people in the market know very well, better than anyone else, that investments are being made wherever there is credibility. And when we say credibility, we mean it. The words corruption, complicity, are dissuasive for any investor, because he knows he will sooner or later pay the bride. So let us see this budget, which is a top, I believe, parliamentary moment, first of all, if there is credibility to those who propose it. I'm gonna go back a little bit and say an example. Warren Buffet, who is the second or third richest man on the planet, has declared openly: "In a country where there is corruption and strand, I do not invest half the dollars." And it's not just Buffet, there's too many of them. I want to remind you of the following. We have seen an effort recently by the government to prove that the'scandal' - let's say - 'NOVARTIS' is a make-up and does everything. When we say "do anything", everything. From morning to night he tries to prove what Papagelopoulos has done. What does it have to do with it? We'll see the credibility of whether I should believe - because I'm starting to believe - that they became socialists and we haven't gotten it. Maybe I'm wrong. They disappeared around nine people - I am not using a heavier term - in transporting drugs from Dubai to Elefsina. I didn't see any judicial zeal there. The charges have been filed, the thousands of millions have been made, but nine people are missing. In fact, the last one we learned is Mr. Kazinakis, who disappeared to Canada. It's a strange loss of life. I'm just mentioning it. Let's go a little bit further. We see an entire party, this party which invites us today to vote on the budget, to be costed behind offenders. It was found behind Mr. Poulis, who is indicted. It was found behind Mr. Froze, who's in court. It was found behind Mr. Maniadakis, who, too, is indicted. And, oh of the miracle, while a confiscation of an account had been made to Mr. Guardez around $1,800,000 in Switzerland, with the arrangement made by the government, he can get his money back. So is Mr. Maniadakis, who wants to leave with building and all that, who is also the defendant. I hope people find their point. But I see that an entire government is struggling - and fast - to show that NOVARTIS is a construction. I also want to remind you of this. In the same scandal Mr Loverdos - I say again that the credibility of those who want to pass this budget is being tested - has applied for an exception, as he had the right, to the judge, the prosecutor of corruption. The unanimous decision of the Board of Appeal has never been learned. It was eighth news, if it were, and if we learned it, we learned it from two - three newspapers. She was rejected and unanimous, in "the prosecutor is doing her job well". Shortly before, the Association of Prosecutors - around the seven hundred prosecutors - had criticised Mr. Stournaras, who also talked about construction, and with a statement she said that Mrs. Toulupaki was doing her job well. A few days ago, the prosecutor appointed to this government - not illegally, but legally, on the basis of laws - Mr Plootas asked the Chamber of Appeal to exclude the corruption judge, because he has to go to a higher level, even though she is a year. But we're leaving that. The decision was also taken by a majority of seventy to forty - it is not unanimous, but it is a great deal - that the judge, Mrs Ewing, is doing her job very well, and that she remains. The credibility of this government is being tested. I come to the point, to the budget, so I don't seem to be flattered. Some are trying to convince us here that the country has been a virginity since 2015, that there was nothing before. I hear from morning to night unbelievable things, "you overtaxed, you did things" and so on. You say them comfortably dreadfully, as if there were no life before 2015 in this country. The country has happened since 2015. So I want to remind you here of three - four things. The 10-year bond in 2012 reached 23.9%. I'm talking with numbers. It is the definition of a bankrupt and looted country. Indeed, the SYRIZA government handed it over to 1.8% and put it down. I have to admit. After many years, we went to the markets, etc. Let someone judge whether this was the case within two or three months, or whether there was something before. I still want to say this. I come to my point, to the budget. Well, I'm a very good-looking man, although the government had talked about 4%, then it downloaded it to 3%, then took it to 2.8%. I wish her, and I mean it. I wish he'd catch it! Nevertheless, the tough organisations worldwide, the OECD, the European Union, the IMF, do not give these figures. I want to agree that 2.8% will catch it, and I'll sincerely be happy about that. This is where two worlds clash, for those who don't understand it. I said I'm in danger of believing that they've become socialists and I haven't taken it. So let's see it. Go to the slums of the Holy Anargys or the Cameroon and tell them the following. I'll read it to you. And when I say "self-sufficient," I mean self-sufficient. The first thing that this government has taken care of is to reduce corporate tax by dividends. ‘Reduction of the maximum rate of income tax, reduction of the taxation of companies investing in immovable property, reduction of the taxation of portfolio investment companies’. All the citizens in Cameroon, the Saints Anargyros, here in Omonia, in the villages, all understand what they're doing. ‘Reduction in real estate fund taxation, reduction in corporate bonds’, etc. Decrease, decrease, decrease and go by saying. I forgot to tell you, however, another delightful act the government has done, and its credibility is tested. Apart from unblocking all the lawsuits, from whom he's been charged back, he did the other one. At the same time that the LEHMAN BROTHERS bankers, who have given loans without guarantees, are currently rotting in the United States prisons, are going through a special amendment and the own-initiative prosecution of a judge, who is giving a loan without a guarantee, is making it inclined. I mean, if it's possible I can nail myself. Also, the sanctuary of capitalism, "FINANCIAL TIMES" writes a full page. Muga! We didn't hear an answer. They went, they smiled something. This is about credibility. So since they're doing this arrangement, let's see who this is about. They reduced taxation from 28% to 24%. That's not bad. One hears it and says it's right, it's not wrong. But one difference is that 90% of small businesses do not concern them at all. On the other hand, it concerns a very small proportion, 2.5% of firms. And people who make a tax declaration over 100,000 euros are 1%. He thinks: What exactly do they do? Why would that be a zeal to go through eleven tax relief arrangements? Who?’ Of course, the pot on the cake has something on the helmets, there are many more, which I consider to be positive. For Christ's sake! However, I have to say this. There were a lot of people waiting for this dividend to be underestimated, and it was crumbs. A lot of people were waiting for it, or maybe they're waiting for it, because they're holidays. A quarter of those who took it, they'll take it and get a quarter less. Where do they cut this dividend and where do they fill it? What's the reality? They also came to the point of cutting off the MEDIs and setting age criteria. If they didn't have the outcry of the world, they wouldn't fix it. THE LEVELS. So, you're saying, what do people do? I could mention a great deal, although many colleagues have mentioned it, in great detail. I want to say this because I hear things go wrong and I don't like it. The pensions - because people listen to us - reduce them 192 million. There are reductions in health, education, welfare. The social state wants to avoid it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I still have a minute. I will not speak any more, Mr President. I want to say one more thing that I like and I want to say that. I hear we hated investments, we didn't want them. They reached 28%, while we, who took her to 16% - great, I'm not saying - did not know what we were doing. There's a myth that the previous government was against investments, prisoners, etc. So I read, according to the Bank of Greece's figures - and I conclude, I will say nothing else - that the net flow of foreign direct investment in Greece in 2018 amounted to 3,36 billion, which was the highest amount of the last decade and is the third consecutive year of increased foreign investment in the country, when the'market children' in 2014 only reached 2 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I could say more, I don't want to take advantage of time. I mean, however, that every day it passes - I wish you justice - you will be exposed. You'll be exposed, because you work for the few, like you've always done, as is happening everywhere in the world. You choose to work for the few and the phrase "world and cosmopolitan" tells you nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u56	Thank you. Mr. Katrin from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government has created many expectations to the Greek people, who were tired of the foreign government of SYRIZA and sought out a way out. But now that the fund time has come, both with the budget debate and with all the top issues for the country, we are starting to measure how many cherries they really have left in the basket. All the efforts of the communication staff of the New Democracy have focused on a slogan,'return to normality'. To support this slogan, the Mitsotakis government constantly uses arguments, depending on what the Tsipras government used, but with one common goal: building a virtual reality. For example, the government invokes the indicators for improving the economic climate, with the difference, of course, that this improvement is not visible to citizens in their daily lives. Ladies and gentlemen, the return to normality is not combined with Greece being the first to the unemployment rate among all the countries of the European Union, with new jobs mainly involving part-time and low-wage jobs. Return to normality is not meant, when in the first three months of the insurance contribution arrangement they were already out of the one hundred twenty-dollar arrangement over twenty-two thousand debtors who were unable to respond in the long run. Certainly, it is not a return to normality that in this regulation of a hundred twenty-dollar arrangement for the funds only a total of EUR 35.5 billion had to be set aside. Back to normality, as long as this government, like the previous one, accepts the high primary surpluses, which actually deprive the economy. Return to normality, when the actual absorption of integrated programmes in the NSRP is between 25% and 27%, when the growth and liquidity is requested. Of course, a return to normality does not arise when the protection of first residence is now in the air and we are leading to extreme situations which the government will find before it. Ladies and gentlemen, what the previous government did not understand, which turned Greece into a global champion in taxation in 2016, according to the OECD, but also today, is that there is a two-way linear relationship between the primary surpluses, overtaxation and overdue citizens' debts. For the two years 2016-2018 the need to create and overcome these surpluses meant 14 billion euros, resulting from overtaxation and under-utilisation of expenditure. At the same time, citizens' due dues towards tax increased EUR 18.1 billion. The victim of the primary surpluses, unfortunately, and the national defence sector, at a very critical juncture for the country, with Turkish aggression escalating unusually. Given the need to strengthen the country's military strength, it is really a question of reducing expenditure on the Ministry of Defence by EUR 141 million in total, both in the ordinary budget and in the Public Investment Programme. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that at some point in this Chamber and as a political system, we should unite and agree to the need to increase expenditure on defence and the country's armour, under conditions and conditions of transparency. The budget, submitted by the government, is over-estimated in terms of its assessment of growth, which, unfortunately, for my compatriots in Elias will be delayed further, since today's government continues with the recurring, but also the delays in the Patras - Tower road, with which decisions to be postponed for the end of the first half of 2020, at the same time as the Prime Minister is considering financing the North Cretan Road from the revenues from the ANFAs and SMPs. Of course, the development objective itself, or more correctly the growth of 2.8% in 2020, is at stake at the moment, at a time when there is a slowdown for the large economies of the euro area and also for the global economy. This objective, which itself characterises as quite ambitious, is questioned by the Bank of Greece, which speaks about 2.4% of Greece, by the IOB, which speaks of 2.3%, by the OECD which speaks of 2.1%, by the IMF which speaks of 2.2%, by the European Bank for Reconstruction, which speaks of 2.4%, by Citygrou yesterday, which spoke about 2.1%, Fitch 2.2%, Bank of America 2%. I'm stopping here. You're gonna tell me, but well everyone predicts less growth rate? No, of course not. Mr. Skakakis yesterday, if I'm not mistaken, said we'll get over the 2.8% growth target in 2020. I wish you wholeheartedly and I hope that will be done, although the omens and indications are not so positive. The government's new line of defence is: even if the targets are smaller, it is important that we have greater growth. But come on, when the GDP growth is based on your strategy, and also on your rhetoric, on reducing the primary surpluses, which the Prime Minister has just smacked - budget eve - that it will put them at the end of 2020 for 2021, at the same time as being struggling with Mr Tsipras for who gives more than the surplus. The growth of GDP is therefore based on an increase in private consumption, an increase in investment, an increase in exports by 5.1%, as you say, when in 2020 you say that imports of goods will exceed exports, with the certainty of Brexit, after the previous elections, even worsen the trade deficit. This year private consumption has declined, despite the increase in households’ available income, exports have decreased and debtors have increased. These are the real facts and the foundations of the debate. How can the country achieve a high growth rate when it is unable to use financial instruments such as the NSRP, which, as I said before, moves at a rate of 25% uptake when it does not have a productive reconstruction plan in the country? The implementation of the Public Investment Programme is limited to 38.5%, with your own figures at the end of September, with the Ministry of Finance admiting two weeks before the delay of 811 million euros. The Minister for Development on October 9, during his visit to the CCT, talked about an emergency plan, as he described it, to absorb as much resources as possible. We're still waiting for it. There is now a great lack of projects, which can be characterised maturely, while there are no programmes for small and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises with the processing sector, unfortunately, only 9.4% of GDP, according to the IOBE survey. The ESDP has a absorption rate of 17.85%. Significant programmes have not been published. Projects related to waste management record low absorption, while hypotonically the strategies and large investments, which have been so advertised, are evolving. Of course, the payments of the beneficiaries, which have joined the programmes, are being made at a very slow pace, which is depriving them of liquidity on the market. Analogous factor in achieving high growth rates is the fact that Greece, despite the improvement it has presented over the past six years in the area of foreign direct investment, remains in the seventeenth place between the countries of the European Union. According to the World Bank figures, Greece remains a reality in investment, which accounts for only 11% of GDP, with the investment gap in our country estimated between EUR 77 billion and EUR 100 billion. Of course, the Greek Association of Industries in its latest investigation asks the Government to continue the bold reforms, proposing - listen, listen! - further reduce wage costs! Development, therefore, with a small share for workers and society. Is that what the country needs today? We, ladies and gentlemen, disagree. The government is constantly talking about lowering taxes and, where it stands and where it finds itself, about reducing HISPIA. In the 2020 budget, of course, property taxes appear to be increased by EUR 84 million, and an additional EUR 142 million is estimated from the increase in objective values. In fact, the government hides that the tax burden for citizens will be greater than the redefinition of these values, which cancels the entire account of reducing taxes on property. More than four thousand areas, most of which include parcels and non-project real estate, will see increases, not excluding several local areas. Most importantly, however, the government does not answer the question of the eighteen other taxes linked to property and will increase, such as real estate tax, property tax, distribution taxes, inheritance taxes, parental benefits and others. At the same time, the government is talking about a reduction in taxes, but in the budget it has tabled, there is an increase in total revenue by EUR 602 million, while at a very high level the disparity of indirect taxes, at the expense of the medium and poorer layers, is maintained. Greek taxpayers will even be charged with EUR 638 million of VAT in addition. It will pay an additional EUR 323 million income tax, despite the tax reductions - which we have all recently voted on - and the symbolic reduction in tax prevalence by 5%, which should be much greater for consistent taxpayers. There is no provision in the budget for the duty-free payment and compensation of the people in the primary sector, no incentive for producer groups, no care to alleviate taxation on farmers and farmers. In relation to electronic transactions, I would remind you what you were saying in your programme: Reduction of bank transaction charges, irresponsible business account, reimbursement of VAT on electronic transactions in sectors where tax evasion arises. Finally, all you do is give tax on these changes with revenues of EUR 557 million, since citizens will be forced to cover 30% on electronic markets, otherwise they will have a fine and a tax on duty. Electronic transactions connected in many cases and accompanied by bank abuses, for which there are no charges. The main thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that nothing has changed. The 300% increase in electronic transactions over the last five years contributed to an average annual increase of just 1.8% of VAT revenue, based on the study of the National Bank yesterday, which saw the light of publicity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. For banks, ladies and gentlemen, the government sees better liquidity conditions, reversal of credit shrinking. The only thing that does not see is the inability of the banking system to finance the economy, but also high interest rates - indeed vary at very high levels - for the minimum loans granted. He talks about the HERAKLIS project, which even if it achieves its objectives, will remain EUR 40 billion in red loans to the banks. However, the government does not say anything about this, as it says nothing about borrowers and the social consequences of the management of the loans, since in four months' time there will be a gap in the protection of first residence. Today, in a total of thirty and five thousand natural persons who have entered the platform of the law of SYRIZA, there have been all fifty regulations! Otherwise, the Minister yesterday urged and called on the citizens to exploit the platform to protect their first residence. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is by no means a development budget. With high primary surpluses, there cannot be sustainable growth rates, but only high taxes with cuts in social and development resources. Unfortunately, of the numbers, which are and do not prosper, you seem to be on the same road as the Tsipras government, a road that prolongs the deadlocks of the country and gives no hope and prospects to young people. With similar signs of arrogance, with fine words of merit, but with the application of client ties of old type, claiming that you are interested in many and weak, but ultimately with actions that serve the few and the powerful, as if we were not taught anything as a political system from the crisis all these years. The citizens did not send us to the House to vote for anti-development and anti-social budgets. We were not sent to vote in favour of a policy which was rejected in the last elections by the Greek people, but it seems to be going on very much by the new government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u59	The country needs, it deserves, and above all it can have a really progressive proposal for governance, with a social and developmental character. That is why we, as a Change Movement, are voting against the government budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u60	We conclude the meeting with Mrs Chabika Iatridis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting today in plenary the debate on our country's top law, the 2020 budget, the law which reflects the government's intentions, its political priorities, the general direction in which it intends to move next year. With the budget every year, any government sends an important message, both within the country and abroad. On the inside it makes it clear to the Greeks and Greek women how it intends to move financially. Because it is obvious that reading the budget is not just about the state and planning of its policies. It concerns, first and foremost, the design of the economics of each of the Greeks. It concerns the planning of families, businesses, banking, regional and local authorities. It is the reference budget for all and all, a point of what we need to wait next year. Externally the budget makes it clear to markets, investors, our partners in the European Union, the government's economic plan, the policies it is expected to implement. It is essentially about sharing all these factors, which in turn also affect the domestic environment of the country, its wider economic climate. I would point out all this because the budget refers to numbers, obviously also to assessments, but it is certain that its effects are decisive in the whole range of economic, social, life-threatening activities of the people of a country. That is its importance and that is what we have to show today, as in our other plenary sessions. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of being a special rapporteur of the New Democracy in the debate on the 2020 budget. In our debate in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the preliminary draft budget, I stressed that this is a budget which will receive the assent of the European Union, as it has been. It turns out, in other words, that when there is proper preparation, realistic approach and knowledge of the problems of our economy, there will also be consultation and agreement with our European partners. In all this it is worth noting, once again, that our country has successfully come to the markets and, indeed, has first come out at a negative interest rate in the 15-week tender of the Public Debt Management Agency. The historically low interest rate of 1.5% was shown in the Greek government’s 10-year bond. Ladies and gentlemen, with the 2020 budget, the government's commitment to limit taxes is being acted upon, to broaden the tax base, of course, to overthrow the deinvestment climate, which had arisen in the harshly restrictive policy pursued by the SYRIZA Government of EUR 11.4 billion. In addition, more tax incentives are being given to businesses, which, in conjunction with what has already been voted on since the summer, and last week, they put the engine of our economy ahead. For us Members, who support this government and Prime Minister Mitsotakis, it is important to see in the budget what was written and presented in our election programme. As I said before, the budget estimates concern us all. They are about families who find it difficult to get through, about the infertileness that is one of the most crucial issues for the Greek nation, and concern the businesses, the backbone of our economy. They also concern the region with the restructuring of the public investment programme. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the public investment programme. The restructuring of the programme, I believe, is one of the key points in this budget. The public investment programme is what finances the development of the country, it contributes to increasing the private and public capital of the economy and supports the country's development process on a long-term basis. It is this program that allows for a strategic planning for development, progress, especially of the remote islands and mountainous areas of our country. For 2020, the public investment programme totals EUR 6,750,000. How is this policy translated into practice? It is clear that these amounts are expected to be directed towards policies that we need, policies that the Greek people need. For example, to mention actions that upgrade public infrastructure, health, education, transport and communications, energy and the environment. Furthermore, the digital transformation of public administration is promoted and necessary structures of social cohesion and solidarity are supported. The Ministry of Finance strengthened the co-financed part of the public investment programme by transferring EUR 250 million from the national part to the co-financed part. This strengthens the expected development benefits, due to the highest multiplier of the co-financed strand, creating a financial benefit of around EUR 170 million. In conclusion, the total amount of EUR 675 000 000 represents 3.4% of GDP and is divided into EUR 6 billion for the co-financed projects and EUR 750 million for the projects from purely national resources. Why did we choose this policy? Because we are aiming to absorb the funds to ensure that the European Union has a corresponding contribution. This will support the promotion of development policy and speed up the completion of programmes. I note here that from the EUR 6 billion 4,2 per year for NSRF projects for 2014-2020 and EUR 1.7 billion for other co-financed programmes. Basically, with the change in the approach to the public investment programme, we are aiming for its full implementation, because we think it will work proliferationally in our efforts to achieve substantial growth. It is also an answer to the policy of over-excessive surpluses pursued by SYRIZA, without, of course, calling them "bloody". I would like here to explain what the implementation of the public investment programme means in practice, as our Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis promotes it. A characteristic example is the appropriations for barren lines. As you know, the uninterrupted transport of the small islands with the largest islands and mainland Greece is vital for our survival. Until first, the appropriations for the barren lines were provided by the regular budget of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy and before its abolition and by the corresponding appropriations of the Ministry of the Aegean. It could be said here that there was no coherent plan to fund the barren lines. However, today there has already been an increase of 45% in the appropriations for barren lines, and yet what matters to islanders is that, since this year, financing of barren lines has been part of the public investment programme. In other words, barren lines are financed as a repetitive action for the coming years with guaranteed resources from the programme. This can make it possible to better design the fertile lines and, of course, to have better, more quality transport all year round with corresponding quality ships. In this way, a substantial development policy is promoted for our islands and years are dealt with development issues relating to the island country. Of course, it is not just the barren lines to ask for islanders. Greece continues to address development issues, infrastructure issues. But this government has shown in practice that it believes in real growth, growth, which creates jobs, which creates wealth for the country. For Rhodes it is important that the investment of Aftos Rhodes is progressing, which will upgrade the level of our tourist services. It is important that with the national development programme we will be able to plan and finance infrastructure projects on the remote islands, much more when there is a need for new infrastructure, because old infrastructure has been destroyed, for example from the recent theory in Rhodes. The public investment programme, in consultation, of course, with the South Aegean Region, can, if necessary, provide financial solutions for the construction of the new bridge of the Makaris River in Haraki, Rhodes. The damage to the Butteral Valley can be restored, and elsewhere there are areas affected by the natural disasters and, of course, new and effective flooding works can be planned. It can proceed, through the public investment programme and the construction of the new road linking the city of Rhodes to the island's airport, a new road axis that needs our place, which is in the process of studying, and the financing of its construction is being discussed by the European Investment Bank. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by pointing out the following: the reality that we all live in is the final judge of the present government and of any government, and the reality is that every commitment we make has been made. The reality is that Greeks and Greeks pay less ISBIA. The reality is that Greeks and Greeks pay less income tax as natural persons. The reality is that VAT has been reduced to basic types and services, such as nutrition, focus and electricity. The reality is that Greeks and Greek women have more favourable arrangements for the hundred and twenty doses of taxi and more favourable arrangements for insurance funds. The reality is that Greeks and Greek women see that their businesses will also start paying less taxes. The reality is that Greeks and Greek women see that their real estate is being upgraded, with the measures we have taken to strengthen the building activity and the energy upgrade of the buildings. All this and others, which my fellow New Democracy rapporteurs have mentioned, are the reality that Greeks and Greeks live, a reality which is reflected both in the drastic improvement of the economic climate in our country and in all the recent polls. Obviously, that's just the beginning. The Government of New Democracy, our Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, and all of us do not rest with what has happened. We are proud of all this, we are proud, because we can look at citizens in the eyes, that we are honest and loyal to what we have committed. With the confidence of the Greek people, we are moving towards the implementation of our active and effective development policy. The reality is that the first budget of Mitsotakis and New Democracy is a budget of responsibility, a budget of consistency, a budget of perspective. It is a budget with growth for all, just as we committed ourselves before the elections to the Greek people. For these reasons, I recommend the vote on the 2020 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-14-S1-commons.u63	With the consent of the House at 23.40 a meeting is closed for tomorrow, Sunday, December 15, 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: continuing the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2020’.
