ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I wish you a good month! [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 31-10-2019, the minutes of the First Meeting of Thursday, 31 October 2019, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: “About International Protection and other provisions”.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In the context of the Prime Minister's time, the question will be discussed under No 141/11/25-10-2019 by the Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Prime Minister, on the subject: "The Gordian bond and the absurdity of the PPP for the Peloponnese Waste Management Region must be solved". As you know, the Gordian bond has not been solved, but see what's going to happen today. The speaking time, according to Rule 132(1) of the Rules of Procedure, is: For the honourable Member, ten minutes in order to develop the timely question and five minutes in the course of his secondment, and for the Prime Minister, twenty minutes in the case of the prototyping and ten minutes in the case of the second. The reason for the question is the Member of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good month. I would like to say that I understand the Members of the province who today would like to be in their own areas, but today's question, on the occasion of the Peloponnese PPP, is keeping them here. Ladies and gentlemen, what is to be debated today - and to a large extent has been solved by the decisions and vote on the multi-brand plan, to be honest last week - is of great value, because a PPP launched in 2012 and signed in 2013, seven years later, with a change of governments, many regional and regional administrations, has not started yet. You will allow me in the first place to tell you the history of this whole process, to understand why there is not much to go on in our country, and in the second part I will make a few proposals for the PPPs, so that they can make better use of their possibilities. In 2009, the PASOK government launched the necessary environmental project of waste management, using the PPP method, for all plants in the country, western Macedonia, Epirus, Ilia, Serres, Achaia, Achaias and Attica, with the then Secretary-General - and I am glad that they are still today - Nikos Manjufas, a Secretary-General who has been in his place for seven years and offers a lot of money. All this was EUR 1.7 billion investment, with about 12 000 permanent jobs and twenty-five thousand jobs during construction. These are projects that protect the environment, produce green energy, have a positive environmental footprint and, of course, protect public health and minimise the financial burden. The Peloponnese PPP provides operating for twenty-eight years of three waste treatment plants. It has a budget of EUR 168 million, of which 66m euros are from the NSRF 2007-2013. Now we're going to the ESDP 2020. Around a thousand jobs are created in construction and some four hundred jobs are created for the twenty-eight years. And that's not just about Arcadia, it's about the rest of the prefectures. I see Mr. Lambropoulos, Mr. Davakis and many others present. But listen, ladies and gentlemen, and - the Prime Minister, I believe, will have read my newsletter - how all this happened. On 3-7-2013, following a competition that preceded the project of managing the PPP waste, which the company "TERNA" proved as a broker, Mr. Maniotis, Hadjidakis, Mitarakis attended this process and said that the project should go ahead. A decision to approve environmental conditions was adopted in July 2014 by the HICP. Then SYRIZA was on the way, talking about the scandalous contracts with great known manufacturers, the known ones you all know here and we've lived them. He was trying to stop it and said that when he came to the government, he would stop this work. In 2015 - and here also has an interest in the New Democracy and for all of us - the SYRIZA Government decides that the project cannot go ahead and goes through an amendment on 5-11-2015, which cancels the PPP of Peloponnese, Epirus, Elias, and which, unfortunately, has also been voted on by the New Democracy. Then, the three of our MPs, who are not here today, Leonida Gregorakos, Yiannis Maniotis and I, have supported and made a great effort to say that what happened, unfortunately, very soon those who voted will vote for it. And, in a short time, on March 22, 2018, SYRIZA brings in a new amendment that gives back responsibility to the Peloponnese Region. We are now from 2013 to 2018. It has been five years since we went ahead with this process. On June 14, those who denounced the known manufacturers, the known scandals, the known ones all those who were saying, sign a contract, the same contract that we had previously done. You will allow me to tell you - I had said it - that the Members of the New Democrat Republic of the Peloponnese ask a question about the work of the PPP as soon as it is in opposition. In self-government? You all know what happened. Mr. Tatoulis, while he was a Provincial Director, some of Mr. Nika's Regional Councils reacted to the project the other day, and Mr. Tatoulis, at the Regional Council, voted against the expropriations, while some Regional Councils - not all - voted, not to be unfair - of Mr. Nika who reacted. We're talking about absolute madness. We are talking about the absolute deadlock of a country which within seven years cannot complete an investment that has all the positive effects for a region. It cannot complete something that essentially helps tourist, environmental, economical citizens and, of course, citizens vote accordingly. Prime Minister, last week you actually took two important initiatives. These initiatives essentially include PPPs in strategic investments, which are very important, and the decisions on expropriations go to the Economic Commission. I asked you a lot before that. Although I did not believe - and we have disagreements on this - if you were asking me personally whether we should take this decision on this PPP, I would say yes to you. The PPP of Peloponnese would never proceed if the decisions were to be held on the regional council. Mr Tatoulis and his team, but also many others, as was done against the coron, would use the power, while they believed in this work, to negotiate for anything - and unfortunately it is not the matter - but never this work. That is why I think this has been very important. That is why I asked to come here at this level and thank you very much for coming, because the PPPs are a choice made in 2009 - first time in 2007 to be completely honest, but they are implemented since 2009 - and it is something that could trigger growth. Finally, Prime Minister, because I believe that this has been temporarily solved and I believe that the government must have its eyes on top so that there are no other problems - we have two large PPPs, Athens and Thessaloniki, EUR 1 billion, two and a half thousand direct jobs. If these move directly, because the side of Thessaloniki has gone ahead, but in Athens it cannot be realised, because of the planning that Mrs Douros had made - but now there can be no excuses, because there is a new regional administration - they will create conditions to stimulate growth even more, but they will also help the region environmentally. Thank you. I am waiting for your answer and I'll see you in the second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u3	Before the President of the Government takes the floor, I will make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" hall of fifty-two students and students and five teachers from the 1st Old Faliro Municipal School. We welcome you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The President of the Government, Mr Mitsotakis, is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first good month. I am coming for the second time in less than one month to the Prime Minister's time to reply today to a timely question from the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Constantinople. I will not say much about the image of the Chamber today, but I would like it to be recorded at least in the Minutes of this House that there is not a single Member of the European Parliament who, even for the press, takes part in today's sitting. Otherwise, people are interested in upgrading the level of parliamentary dialogue. So I come to answer your question, Mr Constantinople, a week earlier, so that the periodicity of the constructive dialogue that the Prime Minister's time allows us to develop is not lost. I will have the opportunity, Mr President, to speak in my narratives about how you have asked me, namely how we go about dealing with the critical issue of the management of the waste in the Peloponnese, but to speak a little more widely, to make some general references to how our Government plans to deal with this problem at national level and to turn it from problem to a great opportunity. Because the remnants of our daily lives can be turned into wealth, as is the case in the most mature European countries, to lead to what we call an effective circular economy, a circular economy that produces cheap energy, will create, as you rightly said, Mr Colleagues, jobs, also develop innovation in the crucial area of waste management and, of course, offers a better environment, a better quality of life for all our fellow citizens. I would like to take this opportunity, Mr Vice-President, to mention some indicative elements of the situation in which the country is at the end of 2019. We are twenty-four in the European Union in recycling. Unfortunately, we are second in Europe in the landfill. Unfortunately in our country there are still fifty three illegal landfills, at least these are the recorded sites, because you know very well that there are many smaller non-registered, naughty landfills, especially in the Greek region. Twenty-two of them are on the islands, twenty-one is on the Peloponnese. That's why the Peloponnese thing is so urgent. These are numbers which threaten the quality of life of Greek citizens and, of course, threaten our tourism. Because the image of many tourist areas in the country - I mention Elias, Corfu - is an icon of heartbreaking and dare to say hideous. As far as urban solid waste is concerned, that is, what comes from our homes, we recycle only 15% against a 37% target. What's the natural result? It is that we continue, to say it quite simply, to bury most of our waste. Especially since you mentioned, Mr Constantinople, in Attica - I will say more about that in my dentistry - we are practically dependent on a landfill area in the Gender, which, at a rapid rate, reaches its limits. In Europe, the proportion of landfilling is 23%. In many energy-using countries - I will then talk about it, because we must finally get away from taboo in this debate - the burial of waste waste does not exceed 5%. I think we can all agree - here and there - that these rates are percentages unacceptable. It is certainly also eloquent for hypocrisy and incompetence, especially in the previous government, not only for the past five years - as in the economy, and unfortunately in environmental policy, the previous government has lost its funding train - but also because, while it has adopted a rhetorical sensitivity, it has practically undermined every bold investment in the area of waste management. And these few who have been made, having central authority over, on the initiative and persistence of regional administrations, who fortunately had another perception of how waste should be managed at regional level. Mostly, the previous government has undermined almost all efforts to co-operate local, state-owned, innovative private enterprises specialising in this field, with modern waste sorting systems at source, the exploitation of biowaste for biofuels, biogas, good quality compost. Ladies and gentlemen, the central objective of our waste management policy is to adopt the good practices of the circular economy, which is, moreover, the central direction of the European Union. What does that mean? It means to land as few waste as possible, after all their useful materials have been recovered and, of course, to prevent us from producing as few waste as possible at the beginning of this chain. The benefits of such a policy are obvious. I'm reminding you. We are now ending with the suffering of illegal landfills. They cost us millions of fines and undermine our beautiful natural environment in the worst possible way. There is also a restriction on landfill sites, which in 2040 will not be allowed to accept more than 10% of urban waste. Many new jobs will be created through this initiative in new operators and management companies, municipal, regional and private. We will be able to produce clean energy from biowaste, green energy. This policy will ultimately reduce the cost for municipalities from landfill charges, but there will also be additional revenues from recycling waste. Obviously, there will be a very serious aesthetic upgrading of cities, villages and a whole Greek region. To put it schematically, the garbage is not for throwing. They're raw materials. They're secondary products. It's secondary fuel. You may have seen that a highly impressive and innovative waste treatment plant was recently launched in Copenhagen, with thermal treatment of waste in the centre of the city, which is even so beautifully aesthetically that those who made it, because these plants have high heights, also built an artificial ski trail on the plant, so that they might turn something that some might see as a problematic infrastructure at a reference point for the city itself. Of course, I have to tell you that Denmark is so advanced in waste management, so it has so high recycling rates that it has to import waste, because very simply the ones that end up in the factory from domestic waste production are not enough to cover the plant's capacity. It has therefore reached the point where Denmark is importing waste. So we need to see things differently. We need a different National Waste Management Plan. We have a first mess about what we need to do by 2020, but we are already working on the next plan, with a time horizon by 2026. We need to review the recovery, recycling and burial targets, at least in the short term. There was a target for 50% recycling at the source. This objective has proved unrealistic and must be made more realistic. Today it reaches 20% and you must agree with the municipalities on more realistic targets. I'm opening a parentheses. I am absolutely prepared to discuss with the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Interior a framework for supplementary funding for those municipalities that achieve high recycling rates, so that state funding is linked to a certain degree to the targets they themselves set in the recycling sector. In other words, there must be a whip and a carrot for the municipalities who are doing an excellent job in this area - and there are examples of this - but also of one - in introductory terms - 'price' for those who insist, while also having the possibility of financial instruments, to safeguard the objectives they have set themselves in the recycling sector. We must strengthen efforts to recycle at source. The best and simplest way to do this is to create a new current, which will be added to the basic two that exist. There are two categories of waste. There is what we call 'basket brown' for organic waste. In the first phase, we will do it to the big producers, such as hotels, restaurants, hospitals, supermarkets for expired products, and at some point we must reach household level as well. These could be farmed in anaerobic digestion plants for biogas production and cosbost production. Our third priority is finally to release local authorities so that they have more resources and fewer limitations to do their job so that they can reach the central targets set by the government. That is why we want to transfer resources and responsibilities to municipalities and regions. As I told you, we want to streamline the collection system. There are multiple currents today. Much is working very well, but we should focus on the implementation and implementation of a three-block system: blue, for recyclable materials, coffee, which we will add for organic waste, and green, for all other waste. Our fifth priority, which comes and answers the core of Mr Constantinople's question, is that we encourage public-private partnerships in the crucial area of waste management. Processing and exploitation factories have been operating for decades in Europe. There are some in Greece, with very positive results. We'll create a lot more in our homeland as well. So the target by 2030 is summarised in a tripartite shape ‘50-30-20’. 50% corresponds to the volume of urban waste which within a decade can be recovered at municipality level, packs that we now throw into the blue cans of the municipalities, but also the new stream of biowaste, which will be collected separately through the cafeterias. For all these municipalities, they will be able to obtain additional containers and recycling wastewater. The Hellenic Recycling Certification Company has already agreed with the Ministry of the Environment to double expenditure on equipment and mainly quadruple the costs of informing citizens and soon the relevant Ministry will be ready to announce this specific programme. It is a key point in reducing the waste that is buried in the recovery of biowaste, that is to say, all organic residues, from bark to coffee residues, in the brown bins. With the awareness of all, especially of young children, who often take the lead and convince their parents that recycling is the only effective way to tackle this problem, but also with the awareness of the whole society, I believe that we can reach a 35% of biowaste recovery target from 6.5%, unfortunately, to which we are today. The next 30% represents the recovered material from mixed waste, which is now falling into green containers. These can be recovered through waste treatment plants, the ones we call ACE and bio-waste treatment plants, the ones we call in the terminology and the vocabulary of the management of MEDA waste. The strengthening of this know-how will make it possible to achieve this objective. At present it varies at extremely low rates due to the absence of such units. And I think that in this area, Mr Constantinople, you have also pointed out eloquently using the example of the Peloponnese, the responsibility of the previous government, but I dare also say responsibilities at local and regional level, which often conflicting local interests lead to paralysis and the failure to achieve the final objective, which is no other than a radical response to the problem. But the previous government also has very specific responsibilities for the situation in the Peloponnese, as it was, in principle, a government that stood negatively against units operating in the form of the public-private partnership, that is to say, financed by the NSRF and private-funded funds. The absorption - I would like to stress this - of the NRP funds in this area, unfortunately, remains extremely low and the responsibility of the previous government is very great here. Only 170 million had been compromised last July from the 940 million planned for waste management. We must run very quickly, because the European Union after 2021 will stop financing such investments. So this money needs to be absorbed as soon as possible. One of the specific projects we need to run is the work of the Peloponnese and I am glad you recognised that at the initiative of the government and in the context of the provisions adopted in the Interministerial Bill, we have now enabled municipalities and regions to take such decisions more easily. This project will add another 60 million uptake to the NSRP as soon as it is compatible. And, of course, the results from waste management, through such investments, are well known. I recently had the opportunity, along with the President of Parliament, to see the solid waste treatment plant in Eleftherios, an initiative by the Epirus Region, which was launched in a very short time. Today it works impressively. He uses the latest technology in the field of mechanical recycling. It's a standard unit. It has been awarded by the European Union and has been quite rightly awarded, because the comparison between the image of Epirus and neighbouring Corfu is absolutely catalysts of what we can do on the one hand and what we are not doing or what we did, unfortunately, did not do on the other. This is the model we are going to follow, the same company that carried out the investment in Epirus is the project contractor in the Peloponnese. This provides guarantees that we will also have a good result here. I'll say two more words after the Peloponnese project. The last 20%, which remains, is the waste we call 'the rest'. What can we do with this? Or we can bury them in landfill sites and not waste, that is, HYTOY, not HYTOTA, or we can move on, like all the serious European countries, to their energy use. It is something that must finally be done in Greece, and it must be done in an organised manner. I have, ladies and gentlemen, been dealing with the waste issue for many years, and I remember even the time when with some colleagues we used to meet in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and I had visited for the first time the Recycling Engineering plant in the Race. There I had seen the following oxymomile: We have a process that takes the mixed waste, as they come from green containers, makes a first sorting, recovers that it can be in metal, in recycled material, and then produces what we call RDF, which is a secondary fuel, which may well be used for energy use. But since then we were still carrying the complexes of another time, we ended up in the opposite miracle. In other words, we were going through a cost-effective and energetic process to produce a product that we had to use in a different way, so that we could finally put it back into the landfill area. These are things completely unreasonable and obviously in new investments, those that have at least a large volume, we should also be able to discuss the possibility of a secondary fuel heat treatment - I stress - that is, by-product, which will result from a first sorting by mechanical means. So that is how I described the national planning on a throttle lines. Two words about the specific work of the Peloponnese, Mr. Constantinople. I spoke to the Messinian Chamber two weeks ago. It is my commitment that by 2021 this issue will have been resolved definitively. Why can we be more confident? Because we voted for the relevant provision that the power to expropriate land, with the approval of the Ministerial Council, is now being transferred to the Economic Commission of the Region instead of the Regional Council, which is today, so the Regional Council cannot block these priorities. This opens the way to the start of work at the Peloponnese PPP. As far as I know, the Economic Commission will meet next week. It will take the relevant decisions on expropriations and we will face the biggest obstacle that has existed so far in the implementation of this investment. I believe that the project will start in the first half of 2020. It will be completed within two years. Its operation will be twenty - one years instead of twenty - eight years predicted, for we lost seven years along the way. However, until the start of the new installations, the company has a contractual obligation to accept the waste within 10 months of the signing of the contract, so no later than 2021. Three units exist in this project, it's not just a unit. It is an ACE, an MEDA and a landfill site, one in Arcadia, one in Messinia and one in Laconia, two transhipment stations in Corinth and Argolida, and additional transhipment stations are planned throughout the region. The waste from the Peloponnese is calculated as a total of two hundred seventy thousand tonnes per year. The minimum guaranteed quantity provided for in the original contract was one hundred and fifty thousand tonnes, but this has been reduced to 100 thousand tonnes. Why am I saying that? Because there is always a reservation when such units are being launched, that, once they have to function and need raw materials, this at the same time undermines the targets we set for recycling and we find ourselves in the situation in Copenhagen today, we do not have enough waste to enable these plants to operate. With a reduction in volume, I think that there is no such issue. There will be the unit, covering the recycled waste, which will be produced by the Peloponnese and obviously the region and municipalities will have to move very boldly, too aggressively to achieve the new recycling targets that we will set together. I believe that this is the best way to deal with the problem of the Peloponnese and, of course, I will also have the opportunity to speak a little more about other aspects of this issue. To close just by saying that in a symbolic move we also started at home. The Maximos Mansion has already installed recyclable material sorting barrels. I assure you, from personal experience, that they are filled every day. We all have to do the same in our neighborhoods, in our homes. So we all respond to our little daily duty. This will ultimately be for the benefit of the whole society, and we must not forget that, as much as the state has a very important role to play, together with local government, in organising a proper waste management system, the concept of individual responsibility for what everyone does in their household remains extremely important and this problem will never be solved at its root, unless culture itself, especially of the new generation, and if we do not realize that recycling is a way of life and must enter into the logic and daily life of each household. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Constantinople, you have five minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, in six months' time from now, from what we understand, we will understand whether we have cut the Gordian link between the PPP and the Peloponnese PPP, which was only a conflict of interest. There was nothing else to stop the Peloponnese PPP, except small and large economic and political interests. I will tell you attributes and will understand what has happened in the last regional elections. The candidate with the party officially supported by SYRIZA in the Peloponnese Region, former Secretary General of the Ministry of Infrastructure, had signed and supported the project with the second contract and expropriations. As Head of the Regional Council at the last meeting, he voted against the expropriations. Some in the Peloponnese think we could not understand what was going on with the interests represented by the government and the regional authority, which were intersected and what thoughts they had. And because everyone knew it, and everyone understood it, we had the results we had. Well, they should know that. PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA, you're not what you're saying, but it's mostly your behavior and you may have had candidates in New Democracy - not now, in previous years - but it's actually SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u7	In the end, everyone is PASOK, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u8	At PASOK, although we had a firm view on this issue, which was not appreciated by the people of the Peloponnese, we would do the same and do the same because it is a matter of principle, it is a matter that some people might not understand today. But today in the Chamber you all understood who had principles, who operate with principles and values and who operate with interests. And because many in the Chamber know that in the Peloponnese there were family interests, interests that were intersected with the interests of SYRIZA coexistence at all levels, we all understood what had happened. So, Mr President, in six months' time I believe - the Prime Minister will certainly come down - that you too will be here to see if this work is progressing. I would like to express to you, Prime Minister, a proposal, a proposal that has to do with both the PPPs of Athens and Thessaloniki. If we are really going through everything together, as the Ioannina PPP - which in two years' time has been completed, a project of EUR 1 billion and two and a half thousand jobs - has been completed. This can be done in one way or another in my view: a task force will be set up which will take the contracts and supplies from a regional level and bring them to the central unit of the General Secretariat. This will encourage more investors not to get involved with issues and opinions which are being hampered at other levels. Secondly, many regions do not have experience in such contracts. Thirdly, this means that if we have more investors, we will have less costs for the citizen. So I suggest you do it. I shall conclude, Prime Minister, with something that does not concern the debate, but is very important. On September 16, 2019, the Change Movement raised to you the question of the high charges of systemic banks. I am pleased that today - and after your meeting - the systemic banks have announced that they will go ahead with immediate reductions. For us, the Movement of Change, this is the way of opposition. So we can help our country and our citizens. That's how we're going to go all the next time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, allow me a minute. As you referred to your re-approved presence, Prime Minister, here in the Prime Minister's time, I wanted to take advantage of your presence and to point out that in this parliamentary term a great effort is being made by the ministers who coordinate governmental work, but also by the House, in order for the ministers to come to parliamentary control meetings and to answer the current questions. Today, beyond the Prime Minister's time, nineteen topical questions and petitions will be discussed with a total presence of the ministers, and so far the presence of the ministers in the current questions has reached the level - not to look at it -80%, while over the previous parliamentary term it has reached 50%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am not saying that they are comparable, because we are at the outset and the other one is complete, but it is a hopeful start, which you, Prime Minister, have encouraged and the government is following it. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u10	I would also like to welcome, Mr President, the upgrading of the parliamentary control procedure and to assure you, the House, that the direction taken by me, by the Minister of State and by the Secretariat of Government is very specific. There must be very good reason for not coming to a Minister or a State Secretary in Parliament to answer a Member's question. We are honouring parliamentary control. It is for us very often a useful tool, because it highlights the way in which the issues that we are given the opportunity to assess them through a different look. It is the magnifying lens for us in many local problems, which, if you did not show them through parliamentary control, might have escaped our attention. Therefore, Mr President, parliamentary control is not just a formal obligation for the executive to comply with the requirements of the Constitution, but a fertile process of fermentation, from which wider consensus can be formed and a better level of government performance. And a very good example of how parliamentary control should work - and I am pleased that you have raised it, Mr Constantinople - is also the issue of the debate on bank procurement. It is true that you raised this issue in the public debate. There was a direct reaction from the government. We already have some tangible results from the banks that announced a series of announcements that were launched on 1 November and which will not be implemented, but also some initial reductions in debts. I would like to remind you that some of the increases in debts, especially for the withdrawals from ATMs of other banks, had already been launched since 1 July 2019, that is, at a time of another government. In any case, however, I think this is a very good example of how parties can work together, compose opinions and ultimately result is to the benefit of citizens, society as a whole. I think that in this way we can also create a different culture of Parliament's operation. Tensions and discussions at higher tones will always be in this Chamber and are sometimes welcome. However, we must not forget that our main job is to be able to use Parliament to compose opinions, to process the bills, to listen to the views of the Members and finally to conclude with the adopted bills which incorporate comments made, that is to say, the best result. Mr President, at this point I would also like to make one more point, which is about the receptiveness shown by the ministers during the legislative work - particularly in committees, but also in plenary - to incorporate comments made by Members of the Chamber of Deputies and Opposition. We always come in an open mood. We do not have the infallibility, and we want to use the parliament and the procedure of good legislature as creatively as possible. Two quick remarks on waste management issues, to continue my initial position: we now have a large, concentrated, experience in how we can launch, plan, auction, implement, monitor public-private partnership projects. And I would particularly like to mention - you have done so - the former Special Secretary PPP, now Secretary General of the Ministry, Nikos Manjufas, who has been a man who has been following this whole process since her birth. It hides behind almost all the very successful public-private partnership projects and has the Ministry now a large compact know-how for use for all those who think and want to design such projects. We have said so in an election that for us the public-private partnership is an excellent way to implement not just construction projects but also, perhaps, to provide services, which, for example, concerns - I see here next to me and the Minister for Health - and the health sector. The State may well in a specific context, instead of buying machinery and investing in infrastructure, buy services through long-term public-private partnerships, for example in diagnostic tests. So for us this is a policy that we intend to implement. We are doing the beginning by unblocking a very important project, which concerns the problem of waste management in the Peloponnese. We will talk much more - and I close with this, Mr President - over the next few weeks on the Attica problem, which is great and we will deal with it effectively before it takes an explosive dimension. We also need short-term treatment, so that we can see what can and cannot be done in the area of Race, but there is also a need for a rapid adaptation in the context of the restrictions we have from regional planning, so that we can implement a series of major projects, which will certainly also include a large waste management unit with significant capacity, much larger than that of the Peloponnese, which can in the medium term give a great breath to address this problem and help us, of course, to achieve the objectives that we have set in the context of the central planning for which I have spoken to you before. In this direction the Ministry works as well, but as you have rightly pointed out, and as at least those who have been mayors - and I see you moving your head - you know very well, there are always conflicts of interest, which are escaping from the ideological cloak that everyone can wear. That is why you should know that this is an issue that requires de facto strong central coordination. It will be an issue that the Government's secretariat itself will pursue and oversee, because the problem of Attica, in the capital city, may be very great, but our commitment is this problem, as I have told you, to turn it into a great opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u11	I have the honour to announce to the House that from the above western theories, which are composed of students, they are attending our meeting, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-eight students and students and four teachers from the 6th Gatsis High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having participated in the educational program "Keratsiou Workshop", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, eighteen students and students and an attendant of the 23rd Keratsini Municipal School. The House welcomes them. We will be adjourned for five minutes and will proceed immediately thereafter to continue the debate on topical and urgent questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I have the honour to inform the House of the current Questions of Monday, 4 November, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 149/29-10-2019 topical question by MP Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Hussein Zeybeck to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The resolution of the building problem of the Minority High School - Xanthi High School". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 156/29-10-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Lacks of teachers in schools". 3. The 152/29-10-2019 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas Arseni, Minister for Culture and Sport, on "Explosive Activity in Skouria and the recent decision of the Central Archaeological Council (CSC)". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: “Problems with the implementation of the programme “A new beginning in the ESDP””. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 157/29-10-2019 topical question by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Problems at the premises of the National Sport Centre (ESC) Larissa". 3. The question asked by MP Kilkis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Irene - Helen Agathopoulos to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Second School of Opportunity in Gumenissa". 4. The 146/29-10-2019 topical question by MP Boeotia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Geotas Poulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The need for an extension of the deadline for making statements to the Viotia Land register". 5. The Question No 160/29-10-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "A major need for a definitive extension of the procedures for holding at least until the end of the year." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1.H by number 487/4-9-2019, question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To cover the gaps in education and to smoothly operate all schools in Heraklion". In a written document, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the two questions which will not be discussed today and which will be incorporated into the Topical Questions Bulletin on Monday, 4 November 2019. So there will be no debate on the first question, number 146/29-10-2019, on the second question of the Boeotian MP, the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Geotas Poulos, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'The need to extend the deadline for submission of statements to the Viotia Land register'. Nor will the eighth be discussed under number 160/29-10-2019 in the second time question of the new Member of the Heraklion Parliament, Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "A great need for a definitive extension of the procedures for holding at least until the end of the year". All the other questions will be discussed today. Now we will discuss the fifth under number 143/29-10-2019 in an up-to-date question of the second question of Corfu MP of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘Previous abandonment of Achilles’. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Mr President, you have the floor, and I would ask you to respect the time, because we have nineteen questions to be debated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Biagis, presents for the Minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Minister, for responding to my timely question. I came here today to raise an issue that is very important, not only for Corfu, but for the whole culture for Greece. We are talking about Achilles, which is, Minister, one of the most flagship monuments - museums in Greece. It is a monument that is third to visiting Greece. It is one of Europe's most well-known empires. It's an emblematic museum, for both Corfu and Greece, and not just, I would say. Perix of the museum, Minister, there is a forest of eighty acres and a wonderful garden, with wonderful staircases, with artistic kiosk, which today are completely abandoned. And be careful. There are studies. There is the Doxiadis study, which speaks of the use of both the museum and the forest and the garden. There is also lasting study of the former Proritane of the University of Corfu, Anastasia Salis and Takis Koudis, Professor of Metsovio Polytechnics. Today, Minister, because of the negligent and criminal behaviour of the EBRD, we have a loss of greed and not just. Guests are faced with images of grief, with images of shame. I have brought photos, which I will be presenting immediately afterwards, Minister, to the Secretariat, to see - and they are not only images from the museum, which have been released to the press, are images from the outer space - in fact what a diamond we are talking about. Instead of that, in a museum which has around five hundred thousand visitors a year and which, according to the data we have, receives about 3 million a year, Mr President, does not enter euros in the local society or the museum itself. The administration of the EBRD, as a black-poor, I would say, is doing nothing more than collecting money and returning nothing back either to the museum itself or to the local society, which, you know, is being charged with five hundred thousand visitors a year. Instead, this year, in 2019, there was an increase in the ticket.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Biagi, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u15	I will finish as soon as I can, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u16	Keep going, but in a minute you'll be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u17	There has therefore been an increase in the ticket from EUR 8 to EUR 10, with nothing better, neither in the museum nor in this surrounding area. Instead of the EBRD returning money from what it had received, the museum and local society, it chose to make use, which Mr Galatsatou's former regional authority had fortunately put into a programme of 12 million euros. And even the studies have not prepared to prevent and be timely. In July 2019 - and I shall end, Mr President - a piece of the roof fell. So, Minister, and exit local Achilles officials, they apologise, they say that this place will isolate him in order not to have any problems and that very soon, executives and museum experts will be visited to see how....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u18	The rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u19	I'll be right over. Instead, Minister, when things became known through the media, locally and nationally, all they did - and nothing more than that - was to throw all their power down - to two local Achilles executives and talk about the local manager and the financeer. We're talking about managers. We're actually talking about collectors...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Biagi, I can't leave you any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u22	Yeah, you told me five times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u23	Right away, I'll be done. As you can see, they had exactly the opposite results. The local community too laughs at their decisions. I would ask you to tell me, on the one hand, what the government is prepared to do about this problem and, on the other hand, whether on the basis of the decisions made by the EBRD administration for local staff, it will leave them without even making a judgment on them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u24	Good. Because for the first time I have been presided over with you, I have left you more than twice as much time. SYRIZA MEP Mr Athanasia (Sia) Anagnostopoulou seeks permission from absence abroad from Wednesday 6-11-2019 to 10-11-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u25	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The Member of the New Democracy, Mr Theodoros Rousopoulos, is also applying for a absence abroad for Monday 4-11-2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u26	The House therefore approved the requested authorisation. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I understand your personal sensitivity to Achilles, which I share. I recently met with the Mayor of Corfu and the local MP, Mr Ghika, and we discussed this issue, since the common aim of all of us is to highlight and maintain this flagship - as you said - a monument. Achilles has been declared by the Ministry of Culture as a new monument, which means it is protected. The management body of the monument shall be the EBRD. I do not, of course, need to remind you that with L.4389/2016, the government has accepted the creation of the surplus fund, in which all the public property has gone through for ninety-nine years. It was the result of the "superior" negotiation of the SYRIZA government, which pledged the country. No Greek government would have thought of accepting it, but the so-called'superior' negotiation there reached us. The EBRD is now a subsidiary of the UFO, with what that means. L.4389/2016 of the previous government and with which the surplus was founded, states: First, in paragraph 4 of Article 196 it is stated that the ownership and distribution of all the real estate assets of the Greek State in ETAD, with the exception of sanctuary, beaches, coastal areas, water land, areas of RaMSAR and NATURA, archaeological sites, purely forest land, etc. Secondly, in paragraph 5 of the same Article 196, it is stated that even the properties exempted from the transfer remain in the possession of the Greek State, but they are under the control of the surplus fund, which is responsible for their management. The Supervisory Board, which is the dominant management body of the Supreme Council, shall elect, appoint and supervise the members of the Management Board. The five-member supervisory board shall participate three members appointed by the Greek State and two members selected by the European Commission and the European Stability Mechanism. However, decisions are taken by a qualified majority, in order for there to be a decision, there must be four votes in favour. Let me also remind you that in the summer of 2018, the then government of SYRIZA signed by Mr. Tsakalotou, as Minister of Finance, transferred to the excess ten thousand nineteen properties throughout the country. Inside this included some archaeological sites. We are talking about absolute indifference and curiosity. You are therefore aware that the previous government has committed the country to this law. Our primary and primary concern is that of making use of public property. Secondly, that monuments should emerge and be maintained and that their public and universal character should not be called into question. After all, no intervention can be made in Achilles without the agreement and approval of the Ministry of Culture and the Archaeological Service. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I need thirty seconds, Mr. President. As far as the EBRD is concerned, its administration is now on resignation. I do not intend to justify anyone's inertia or management. Achilles needs intervention and maintenance work, there is also a maintenance problem in the environment, as you said before. The revenues of the museum, which employs forty-three people for 2018, amounted to EUR 2,983.477, while the costs were EUR 1,482.063. I would say to you that I understand that increased funding is needed for the promotion and restoration of building infrastructures, integration into the NSRP. The environment, however, could be better maintained and this is the responsibility of the management body. From there on in my dentext, I will give you details of the promotion and maintenance projects that have been done and of the design. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u28	Mr. Biagi, be in your time this time. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u29	Minister, I would just mention that after a visit by a government official in Achilles last days, what he said was that this is a cultural reproach. The person who said this phrase, Mr. Minister, is not the Secretary General of the Ministry of Tourism, Mr. Luli. I would therefore like to give another dimension to this problem, respecting your answer and your good intentions. As far as I, at least, know - and disprove me - in the ownership of the EBRD is concerned, there are a thousand hundred and fifty-seven properties, of which thousands of hundred and fifty-two are urban properties and only five of them are monuments, with the top one of Achilles. Is there really in these five monuments the only Achilles, which will be managed by the EBRD? And, indeed, in the current state - we are talking about tomorrow - the monument, Mr Minister, will we be able to cooperate with you, the Ministry of Culture - which is immediate and needs - and also the EBRD? Would it be a solution to see the transfer and management of this museum through the Ministry of Culture? Do we have to go over and see how, really, we are going to premium this monument and local society by transferring all the existing monuments to the Ministry of Culture in order to get the gloriousness it had in previous years, so that there will again be a point of reference that will bring tourists and will not discredit us in society and outside? I shall conclude, Mr President, and, in fact, thank you for letting me develop my question. We're not talking about forest conservation. We are talking about studies that are already in place, Minister. There are only eighty acres of wonderful forest with unique flora, with unique media, which will be for the benefit of local society, and not just. The agony of the local society is great. And I would ask you very much to show a sample of writing, taking a position directly and giving - if you like - and the importance that the decisions taken so far by the specific administration of the EBRD have been taken on how it used local staff. He actually had people to deliver their decisions, because there was no financial responsibility in Achilles, Minister, and you know it well. A collector was in Achilles, Corfu, who took the money and sent it to Athens. There was no director in Achilles, Corfu, Minister. Commandant, he was taking orders and executing them! Is it possible, even if these people did not warn about the condition of the museum, the visitors - were frequent visits to the museum - not to have seen the situation? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u30	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u31	Mr Colleague, as far as the executives who have been removed from office are concerned, this was by decision of the EBRD administration office of 16-10-2019. The same officials were placed in these positions by the same administration of the EBRD, which, as I said, is on resignation. By the Law on the Supreme Court of L.4389/2016, its subsidiaries such as the EBRD are given the opportunity to do as they do in terms of the choice of personnel, employed in the assets it manages. From there on, I would like to inform you of the interventions to promote and restore the monument. The work of the first phase for the complete restoration and promotion of the buildings of the palace complex of Achilles began in 2014 from the previous administration of the EBRD at the Government of New Democracy by co-financing the operational programme of the ESRB 2007-2013. The first phase included six sub-projects and completed in 2016, with the result that the upper floor of the door building, at the entrance level, will be given to the entrance level, and it reopened as an entry and ticket store, with the necessary building and the necessary electromechanical facilities on its premises. The second phase, which is most important, includes architectural, static and electromechanical interventions in the building of the complex - palace, baron, baron, barium - and work on the environment, is planned to be carried out within the 2014-2020 programme period after a proposal has been submitted to the relevant invitation of the "IONIA ISLAND" Operational Programme, a budget of 12.2 million euros. In fact, a few days ago, a meeting was held with the Ministry of Culture of the EBRD and the head of the NSRF of the Ministry of Tourism. The relevant dossier has already been submitted and we await the accession decision so that the competition can proceed. Clearly, our aim is to move quickly. After all, our government has become the first phase of restoration projects, and from our own government we will see the integration into a financial programme and the implementation of the second phase of the projects in Achilles. In any case, the Government will take advantage of all its possibilities for the new administration of the EBRD to launch a new and sincere relationship of cooperation with the Government and the bodies of Corfu for the promotion of Achilles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u32	Thank you. We move on to the second with number 868/24-9-2019 question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Abrogation of the DU Acharon'. Mr. Darkness has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in recent years the inhabitants of the Municipality of Acharnon have been very concerned about restoring the plan for the abolition of the Dou Acharne. According to the information provided by tax officials by the Governor of the Independent Public Revenue Authority Mr. Pitsili, the DU's branch in the Municipality of Acharnon will be permanently abolished this year. We stress that in February 2019, I tabled my question under number 374 to the Ministry of Finance, on the subject: "Doubled abolition of DU Acharon". The then competent Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Papanatziou, acknowledging the problem, had responded accurately: "Our government has shown in practice the intention to deal with problems, the ones that arise and touch the daily lives of ordinary citizens. In this context, therefore, I will mention the concerns you have put to us by the Governor of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, as to whether in the context of an examination of a reorganisation plan for the WEU it intends to merge some of the services, but also whether the impact they will have on local communities has been examined. We will re-introduce to him (the Commander of the AACC), as well as to the Management Board of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, the suspension of any possible proposals on such a project until taxpayers can be directly and easily served by electronic applications.’ Also, Minister, there were many meetings with the relevant bodies, trade unionists and representatives of local society, who expressed the anxiety of the municipal residents and the need for the DU to exist. This store serves a hundred and five thousand tax records, fourteen thousand Tier 2 books, and some sixty thousand tax statements were made. It is therefore easy to realise that it is necessary to run this tax store to serve the inhabitants of the largest municipality in eastern Attica. As a result of the consultations, the plan for the abolition of the Acharnes DU was suspended by the previous government, because the previous government, as I told you, has heard the problems that would arise from this planning in the daily lives of the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Darkness, please come to the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u35	I'm done, Mr. President. So, on the basis of the above, you ask: Do you intend to continue the previous government's policy to serve the inhabitants of the largest municipality in Eastern Attica, or will you restore the 2013 DUAHON plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u36	Mr Besiropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u37	Mr Colleague, I had answered a similar question from my fellow Member, Mr Apatzides, a moment ago. There is no change since then that differentiates the content of the answer that I must give you. There is at the moment no decision to suspend the operation of this DU. As you know, with the establishment and functioning of the Independent Public Income Authority, which neither your own government has attempted to touch nor change its role, a substantial and decisive step has been taken towards moving to a modern and rational model of the operation of tax and control services. There is a continuous evaluation and update of all data relating to actions, results and also the indicator of citizens' service. The DUs are the mechanism for certifying and collecting public revenues. You realise that there must be an assessment and that is what is happening at this stage. There is a process of overall assessment with regard to the structure and operation of services and the best practices to be applied, in order to upgrade the level of service of citizens. Be sure that the independent nature of the AACC guarantees that any decisions taken on the structure and operation of services will be based on the rationalisation of all data on the effectiveness of services and the service of taxpayers. The last thing we all want is to create problems in the trade of taxpayers, Mr President. On the contrary, our aim and pursuit is to continuously improve the level of civil service and we have a specific strategy in this direction. They're the new agencies that I'll inform you about in my dentistry. It is the provision of electronic services for citizens, which will not make their presence necessary and necessary in the DU. Because at the end of the day, Mr Colleague, what matters is not how much DUs and how many taxpayers' offices we have, but whether the citizens are satisfied with the services we offer them, whether they are effective and efficient the tax services of the state. And I think this can be a field for all political forces to meet and agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Darkness has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you're breaking open doors. You are committed to something already done by the previous SYRIZA government. So what are you telling us? That you won't make it any worse. Minister, the DU Acharon is half, half the one it was. You know very well that in 2013, the current Minister of Tourism, Harry Theocharis, as Secretary-General of Essex at the time, at the Government of Samaras - Venizelos, ordered the transfer of two parts of DU Acharnon, the judiciary and the businessman, to DU Kifissias.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u40	Jurisdiction and control are called...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u41	Yes, court control and business. These two sections were transferred, Minister. You can't deny that. The Acharnes residents have lived with this all these years. It is the hundreds of five thousand VAT, as I have told you, fourteen thousand book number two and sixty thousand tax statements. It is therefore necessary to return all services to the DUA Acharnon. It is necessary to restore the Acharnon D.C. to its normal function and to restore the normality with works, Minister, not in words. The Acharnes people are waiting - even yesterday night for me to discuss with some of them - the complete restoration of the DU. It's not easy - I don't know if you know the space - to start someone from the Acharnes. It's a big place. They're Thracochedons, they're Olympiacos Village, they're an area of St John the Russians. It is a large area and it is very difficult to start from there to go to Kifissia or much more - as the services discussed - in Eleusina or Pallini. The Acharnes citizens, Mr. Minister, are anxiously awaiting the restoration of the full operation of the Acharnes DUH and the restoration of these services which, in a coup d'état way, were extracted from the Acharnes to go to Kifisia in 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Colleague, I'm used to giving responsible answers. It is time to get away from past attitudes and practices. The country needs changes in all areas, and that is what we want to serve. I told you before that the main and main criterion is to formulate a new and modern model of tax structures and services, particularly as regards the trade of citizens. What is the main and main pursuit of a modern state? To reduce the frequency and the need for the presence of the taxpayer in the tax. To reduce bureaucracy and upgrade the level of service. The design, therefore, includes a comprehensive digitisation of the procedures and the infrastructures of the tax services, so that the citizen can be electronically served by the public and by his home, for all transactions in the public service currently taking place in the transport sector. A substantial innovation will be the transfer of real estate without a personal presence in the tax office. And that is achieved by digitising the tax chapters. Our aim is to electronically submit statements on the transfer of property tax and parental benefits. At the same time, a series of innovations are planned, such as the automatic updating and interconnection of the taxpayer’s register with the other public administration registers, the interconnection and interactive information between the tax register and the General Commercial Register, in order to directly record the changes of legal persons and the interconnection with the "KIMOLOGY S.A." in order to make the necessary cross-checks. Mr Colleague, those who insist on seeing the tree and pretending that they do not see the forest are sure that they are not told by all these innovations that we are planning and aim at better service for the citizens. These, however, must be the priorities of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u44	The citizens must be able to deal with these innovations, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u45	You've done nothing for four and a half years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u46	Go to the Acharnes and say what you're saying here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, do not engage in dialogue. We continue with our fifth question under number 150/29-10-2019 of the first cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni, Minister of Finance, will answer Mr. Vesiropoulos - on the subject: "Seven-and-a-half thousand acres involving housing, green spaces, schools and forests from the Metropolitan Temple of the Evangelism of the Theotokos of Lamia". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, this really is a huge matter. That is why we would like to see the Minister here in order to answer it. It's a question we've asked...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u49	Mr Arseni, I have time to say something so that it won't be repeated. And I'm not saying it specifically for you. Once there are responsibilities signed by the Prime Minister to the State Secretarys and they have taken FEK, you should know that the man responsible for answering you is the State Secretary who has the matter. I say it because people feel bad. You don't say that. You're extremely noble. It's not irregular for the State Secretary to be here. It's not that he needs permission from the Minister. It's the responsibility of any State Secretary. It's not nice and elegant to say "it's not the Minister, so why did you come?", since he has responsibility for FEK. I've zeroed the time. I apologise for the interruption. You're starting from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, you are right. I'm not underestimating the State Secretary's presence. We welcome her. We're just talking about a claim that, Tuesday, publicity can be lost...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u51	Because of locality, you said it about the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u52	...in one of the mountains of Athens. And we're talking about the whole Poikilo Mount. It is a huge issue, for which we would like to see mobilisation. And symbolically we would like - regardless of jurisdiction - to have been the Minister here, just to show the political will on this issue. What's going on? We have a claim that has arrived at this. On Tuesday at the court of Appeal is appealing to three decisions concerning the claims of the Metropolitan Church of Lamia for seven and a half thousand acres in the city of Athens, which is the entire Poikilo Mount. This is a forestry area outside the plan. It is two hundred thirty blocks of houses in a non-preferential neighborhood of Athens, a neighborhood that has to fight too much environmental degradation. And now people will fight for their own home. We are talking about schools, streets, parks, including almost all the parks of Peristeri and Petroupoli. It's a shocking matter. What we are dealing with right now is a public person, a legal person governed by public law, who claims to privatise public property. There is a contradiction. Beyond the evolution of the trial, which must be represented in the interests of the general public - and we invite you to give the signal to the officials to do so - there are specific legislative initiatives that can be taken, such as a legislative initiative. For the ERCF, you have acted in legislative terms for no reason. Here, we have a reason. So take an urgent legislative initiative, which says that, when we have legal persons governed by public law who have or claim a property, and it has public use, this public use is automatically granted to the municipality, to building up for all public use as long as this public use is maintained. Also, what is provided for in the Regulatory Plan of Athens and Attica, i.e. the Poikilo Mount, is to become a natural park, regional. This must also be done, so that this decision can be taken as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I am particularly sensitive to the issues of public property and I believe that they are not a matter of party controversy, but, on the contrary, of understanding and cooperation, so that the property of the Greek people is protected and used, in fact, for the benefit of all citizens. That's why I'll keep you fully informed, documented and documented. This area has a total area of about seven thousand acres and is mostly located outside the town plan. I must also tell you that this property has not been declared by the former Regional Department of Public Property at Attica, since no final opinion has been issued so far by the Advisory Council on Public Buildings and Exchanges. From this area only part of the area of four hundred and thirty-three acres was delivered to the Ministry of Finance by the relevant Forestry of Aigaleo, in accordance with the Protocol of Delivery and Receipt of Forest Land. Why did that happen? Because according to the provisions of Law 998/1979 these lands ceased to be considered forests, because of their integration into the town plan they lost their forest character. The rest of the area is under the control of the Aigaleo Forestry and not under the control of the Ministry of Finance. In 2004, there was an opinion from the Counselling Board of Public Buildings and Exchange of Property, the non-promotion of ownership rights of the Greek State was decided and the tradition at the Holy Temple of Evangelism of the Theotokou Lamia, an area of six hundred and six hundred acres, which is part of the above four hundred and thirty-three acres, within the reservoir plan of the Municipality of Petroupoli. It's Opinion 47/2004. In 2007, however, with a new opinion of the Advisory Board of Public Buildings and Exchangeable Property, it was decided that the opinion 47/2004 was withdrawn in part of the two hundred sixty-square section, and therefore that the delivery protocol was withdrawn between the West Attica Land Service and the Holy Temple of Theotokou Lamia for this section. This specific opinion on which the withdrawal was based is number 17b/2007 and additionally an investigation was ordered to clarify the ownership status of the area in question. Colleague, the Ministry's services are at your disposal to provide you with all the relevant documents and information I have invoked but everything else you want. As far as your proposal for the designation or not of the Polikilos Mount Aigaleo as a regional natural park is concerned, I must tell you that this is an exclusive competence of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. In my dentistry, I'm going to give more information on this case and answer your other questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u55	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, we know the history of the case and, as you said, the public right now says that this property is public. Besides, for anyone who monitors the case, publicity is obvious. This is a very specific property, which has suddenly arrived to be seven and a half thousand acres and tomorrow it can go further, because it is a claim, such as the Turkish claims that are growing every minute. What concerns us very much is that the public has not claimed, has not defended public character. In the case at issue at issue at first instance, the representative of the office was not present on grounds of health. As for the public lawyer, he went there and said he was uninformed and could not defend the interests of the public. This shows a negligible protection of the public character of this region, which, as we said, concerns an entire mountain of Athens, two hundred thirty blocks and green spaces in one of the largest municipalities of Athens, the municipality of Petroupoli, as well as roads, schools and many more. That is what is required is a commitment from you right now in the Chamber, that the public will be present at the trial, that it will defend the public character.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u57	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u58	I say this because, when we called on the Minister of Interior - it was our first timely question to the Ministry of Interior - to place it, because so far the coordinating role had the Ministry of Interior, he said it was unresponsible. This shows that there is also a lack of coordination - because the Ministry of the Interior would have the coordinating character in this matter - but also ambiguity in political will. Will you defend the public character of this region? Will the public be present with all the means it has, in order to defend its rights, the rights of residents not only in the region but throughout Athens? Will you take the legislative initiatives, which in many cases solve the problem? Let's go to that. It's not just a statement of good intentions. One has to go to court to defend the public character, someone to legislate with whatever it takes, because that is, in fact, an urgent issue, not the ERC. Here, in fact, a MDG can be done and legislation is needed, to stop this story, to end once and for all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Colleague, I have to tell you that on 28 January 2019 the National Stock Exchange was completed in the Municipality of Petroupoli. The former Regional Department of Public Property of Attica did not submit any statements at the time of real estate because according to POL, 1007/30-1-2009, a circular of the Public Property Directorate is provided with declarations of ownership of all recorded public and exchange property for all areas for which positive public opinions of the Public Buildings and Exchange Council have been issued. In particular, it raises the question of the submission of declarations of ownership during the census procedure for the four hundred thirty-three acres, delivered by the Aigaleo Forest in the Ministry of Finance, in which the area of about sixty acres is situated. The decision of the Athens Multimember Court of First Instance No 3613/2017 concerns the recognition of ownership rights in the Holy Church of Evangelism of Theotokou Lamia over an area of sixty acres within a town plan of the Municipality of Petroupoli. An appeal was filed against this decision by the public. As to the questions you raised, for the first time I answered you in my prototype, I told you that it was the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. For the second question, I will explain why this cannot be done. Because according to the Charter of the Church of Greece, metropolitans are legal entities governed by public law. The property of the Church, like the property of every citizen of this country, is protected by the Constitution itself, in Article 17 of which it states that "no one is deprived of his property, except for the public benefit which has been proven in the appropriate manner, when and as the law defines and always after full compensation has been preceded". So you realise that what you are proposing about 'equitable concessions and without consideration' of the ownership of a church legal person governed by public law in another legal person, such as the Local Government agencies, is contrary to the applicable provisions and principles of the rule of law. Our government believes in the rule of law. It also believes in consultation and cooperation. In this context, we will seek a common framework of cooperation and cooperation with the Church and this government, because it is free from ideas, can do so. As regards your third question about the presence and adequacy of the legal representation of the State, I must tell you that the Greek State, as always, is represented before the courts by experienced and competent members of the Legal Board of State. With regard to the case at hand, nine grounds have been brought before the court, in which the State is sufficiently and thoroughly directed against the primary court ruling, including the inadequately justified rejection by the court of the Greek State’s request for legal expertise. It has even been established that the case is to be tried at the beginning of November, and the State will be represented before the Court by a member of the Legal Council of the State with more than fifteen years of service, which ensures that the interests of the State are adequately defended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory forty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 6th High School of Galatium (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The topical questions to the Minister of Finance are over. We continue with the topical questions to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, which will be answered by Minister Constantine Hatzidakis. The second question will be discussed under No. 138-24-10-2019 in the second cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Thessaloniki Movement of Change Mr. Charalambou Kastanides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The spread of insect bark in the Shah Sou forest". Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I have tabled the topical question we are debating today, in an effort to encourage the ecological sensitivity of all and to act decisively, especially by coordinating the relevant central and regional services, in order to make it the best possible for a multitude of forests in the past twenty-two years, the Peripheral Shah Soo forest of Thessaloniki. Minister, as you know at the end of 2016, probably within 2017, there was for the first time a stemfactor insect, which gradually expanded over the next few years up to this hour, resulting in at least a hundred thousand trees on an area of three and a half thousand acres destroyed by their drying. I take note of the evidence that there have been shortcomings in the management of this issue in previous years. The services - central or regional - were not properly coordinated. As a result, we had an extensive reproduction of this insect and a very great natural disaster. What's the problem? Despite the fact that all necessary work with 500,000 euros has been financed by your Ministry lately, it has been stopped for several weeks. The logging logging remains stacked in the woods. At the same time, the residue from logging together with pine needles compose an explosive to be removed, explosive as soon as we enter the spring season. At the same time, the settlements close to the affected areas, i.e. in the areas that have been dried, are the result of possible disasters, because the necessary flooding has not been done. In addition, no action plan has been launched, in cooperation with the academic community of Thessaloniki, for afforestation. So what I would like to do today is to mobilise and coordinate the actions of the state - central and regional - so that logging starts, inert materials can be removed, like logging, so that there can be immediately flooding, so that there are no areas at risk and, of course, we can see a plan for the reafforestation of Shah Soo. I conclude, Mr President, by reminding you that it is the only serious green lung in Thessaloniki that saves the lives of the citizens and that this green lung has already suffered a great disaster with the enormous fire in 1997. So it's worth our time to act immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u63	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, I am pleased to see Mr. Harry Kastanides again in the Chamber of Parliament of the Greeks. And I am pleased with the question he has put about the spirit of the question, as he has developed it, because he shows his interest in Thessaloniki, in the forest of Shahik Soo and in the environment. In this spirit, I hope it will be my answer. Indeed, there is a very serious and worrying issue about the Shah Sue forest. Things are the way you described them, Mr. Castanides. I don't need to go back to the 2016 history and what has happened. In any case, already the first days that I swore as Minister, I received some messages from Thessaloniki. The Mayors of Sykes, Pylias - Chortiatis addressed us. I was accompanied by the Secretary-General on 6 September - if I remember correctly - in the Shaikh Sou forest to see for myself what is going on and to give - as it was obvious, I am not thinking of that - 500,000 euros in order to meet the immediate needs. There was also a decision that accompanied the allocation of funds, which described what action should be taken. And they're the actions you roughly described. And I have said since that I am at the disposal of both the decentralised administration and the forest office and any person involved, in order to strengthen more - economically I want to say - this effort. I don't live there as you live. I asked the competent authorities for information. The ones I'm told and which I'm saying to you, are that the Forestry has recorded the insects affected by the bark. It has destroyed 10% to 15% of the forest from this insect. This record showed that the insult was found to be about twenty thousand cubic metres of wood and by the end of September a quantity of fourteen thousand cubic metres of sawn wood had been received. In other words, the Forestry says the cutting of trees and the removal of wood has begun. In addition, the information I have is that logging has been entrusted to two forest cooperatives in the region, who were raised as hirers, paid the relevant rents and started logging work. Based on progress so far, the Thessaloniki Forestry assesses that there is no need for additional capacity support. With regard to the flood protection of the regions, the information we have from the decentralised administration is that existing flooding projects are sufficient. I'm saying what the services say. It doesn't mean they're the plates of Moses. I would like to take these into account in the plenary session of the Greek Parliament. Since the time of my prototype is over, I will add further information. I am at your disposal to every MEP from Thessaloniki in order to deal with this, because I, too, am very sorry about the picture I have seen. The question is to stop - if anything - the situation here is not getting worse.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u66	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course we will be in cooperation and I would ask the Regional Association of Municipalities to contact you immediately, to give you further information, because I have found out from the answer that the Forestry gives you that it does not refer to a given which concerns me. I will not say whether or not the workshops are sufficient. I believe, however, that it is probably not enough from the fact that the mining operations have been stopped. At this point there is no mining work. So I would ask you, with your personal responsibility, to contact the services of Thessaloniki and the region in order to enable them. I also told you that the piled logs have not been removed. It is good not to be content with the assurances that the anti-military works are sufficient, because in the past we have had other assurances, which have proved to be very weathery. Last I wanted to point out: I was surprised not only by what the competent self-government bodies say but also by the head of the Department of Forestry of the University of Thessaloniki. He is an excellent scientist, who appreciated: that there was a delay in dealing with the problem and added that he did not pay due attention. If such a deterioration is repeated by the competent authorities, I fear that we will also need to talk about the same problem in the future, because we will not have proved effective. I would ask you, therefore, to come in direct contact with the relevant services, with the Mayor of Naples and Skeletes, which is, in particular, the municipality which is exposed to the affected areas, and it will also be my encouragement to the self-government of Thessaloniki to cooperate in order to find the best possible solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u67	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u68	Continuing, I would like to tell you that first of all regarding the reafforestation and regeneration of the forest, the Thessaloniki Reafforestation Department is planning reafforestation work at the sites required. It's in the same newsletter to me. Moreover, I am told that the necessary - as is said in the terminology of forests - farming logging and dilutions so that the forest will become more resilient to such epidemics in the future. I want to add three things to this. One is that on 6 November I happen to have a meeting with the leaders of the seven decentralised administrations to discuss issues of overall forestry policy. Obviously, by the way, I will also raise all these issues, and I will obviously raise the issue of Sheikh Sue. I would like to say to you - you know very well - that the decentralised administrations to which they belong and the forests are not the responsibility of our Ministry. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior. I'm not saying this to dismiss my responsibilities. I'll be dealing with it anyway, because now that the world understands what belongs to one ministry and what belongs to the other. I'll take a look at what I can do, because I still have the image in my eyes of the Sheikh Forest. I'll do my best. The second thing I want to say is that I will also look at the flooding projects to see what can be done. There's this assurance. I'll cross-check the information, because you never know. And the third and most important, Mr Kastanidis, is that I do not want to cover anyone, and I say this to hear me out at this time in the decentralised administration and in the office. I don't blame people, I don't want to blame them, but we can't be the ones who take the sins of the world. Everyone's gonna have to do their job, first of all us and everyone else. We are all public officials, we have given an oath on each side and this oath must be honoured. If we don't like our job, we can do something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much. We move to the third with number 151/29-10-2019, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25, Kritona Arsenis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Evengement of seven and a half thousand acres including housing, green spaces, schools and forests from the Metropolitan Church of Evangelism of the Theotokou of Lamia". It is precisely the same question that Mr Arsenis has already raised with an additional question, but whose answer has been covered. Mr Arsenis under the Rules of Procedure is entitled to double the question. But the government had to authorize one of the two Ministers to answer and not to have another fifteen minutes to hear almost the same things, if not completely the same. It's not your fault. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u70	Thank you very much, Mr President. We had asked the Interior Minister a question - the Ministry of the Interior was what he was managing the case coordinatedly to the government - and he said he was unresponsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u71	I said it wasn't your fault.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u72	As the Minister for Finance said before, he is unreserved and we must ask the Minister for the Environment, so there is the question to the Minister for the Environment. First let's thank him for being here himself. We are pleased to see the Ministers coming, even though the State Secretarys may have their responsibilities. It is very honorable for such central issues of residents' lives to be the Minister himself. This is the second time you have asked us and thank you very much. The point is the Mount Picquilo. We have a church, the Metropolitan Temple of Lamia, claiming seven and a half thousand acres, neither more nor much all the Poikilo Mount, plus two hundred and thirty blocks of resident houses of no high income, biopolitics, which together with roads, schools and parks of Peristeri and Petropolis are at risk on Tuesday, November 5th, to be found in the hands of this church. The reason is that in the case at issue in the main proceedings there was no incomplete representation of the public, the representative of the forest was not present on grounds of health. So, in fact, in the absence of the public - because a large part of the property is forest - this trial is gone. The only one who's been lost since '29 is developing this case. Now, three cases are being discussed in the courtroom, two that were won by the municipalities and the public and one that was won by the Church. It is very critical, because we are now in the second degree that is avenged and will judge the future of this region. You have an opportunity, Minister, to resolve the issue once and for all. The Athens-Attica Regulatory Plan provides that this area will become a regional natural park. However, this decision has never been implemented. Such an implementation move ends the issue of the Church and its claims. You know, the Undersecretary of Finance said that it doesn't matter if we lose it, we'll find it with the Church. Firstly, it is not so because this shows a lack of interest in claiming property, but secondly, it is not just the Church, after the Church there are private contenders, so we are talking about a mountain of Athens lost. We call on you to mobilise yourself twice with the representation of the office's integrated in the trial, at the courtroom, but also with the legislation that it will declare, with PPP or with whatever else it needs - because it is a matter of urgency - the Polikilos Mountain - regional park.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u74	Mr Arseni, unlike the previous question that I had in my own personal knowledge and in contrast to the question you submitted to me last week, and Tritsi Park, I have to tell you from the outset that I am not deeply aware of this issue, I am speaking on the basis of the information I have collected from these services these days. I haven't personally seen the evolution of the subject. So I'm counting on your question and your answer to see how we deal with the whole thing. Based on what I have here, we will obviously agree that we are talking about an area of seven and a half thousand acres, which is claimed by the Metropolitan Temple of Evangelism of the Theotokos of Lamia and located within and outside the limits of a project for three municipalities of Peristeri, Petropolis and Heidari. I guess that's right. Now, for the in-project areas of the three municipalities concerned, the relevant forest map was posted and any objections were raised by any interested party within the time limits laid down. The objections raised by the Metropolitan Church in relation to these areas were rejected by the public service. The areas are therefore protected from forest provisions and are considered to be substantiated in public. In addition, for the above areas, the municipalities have submitted the respective declarations of the Greek State in the context of the National Stock Exchange, which they refer to as public. I have this briefing in relation to the Land register and the forest maps. From the Metropolitan Urban and Regional Planning Department, my office was informed that the Aegaeos mountain range complex - Polikilos Mount - Ritas Lake was designated as a regional park, based on the provisions of the Regulatory Plan of Athens - Attica - the 2014 Act - and the designation aimed to regain the degradation course and to take measures to protect the ecosystem and biodiversity of the region. A change in use for forests and forest land may not be allowed unless there are reasons for public interest. For the mountainous volume of Eegaleo, to which the area mentioned in the question falls, protection zones have been established with Article 21 of the Regulatory Plan of Attica. We have also been informed from the Register that when the register was drawn up in the areas in question the property issue existed and was recorded on the land register. As regards part of the project in question under the name ‘Peuka Verde’ in the municipality of Petropolis, urban issues have been created, as the existing general urban plan characterises this area as an area of urban greenery, while it has a forestry character. These issues are dealt with by the Ministry's relevant department, with a view to achieving a sustainable solution. It is therefore a matter that is dealt with by the competent authorities. In the next few days, the Secretariat-General for Spatial Planning will have to work together with the Directorate-General for the Environment and see what can be done with this. I too am interested in dealing with the issue without affecting the rights of anyone of course - property and the Church - but in a way that will enhance the quality of life of that region.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u75	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm glad you would state your interest. I am concerned that you were not informed of such a huge issue. I understand that you do not know that all the claims of the Church throughout Greece, but this one is in Athens, it is about one of the mountains of Athens, Poikilo Mount, it is about a residence area in the Attica basin with two hundred thirty blocks, parks of Peristeri, Alsos, green areas. So it is an issue that I would like to see my country's Minister coming forward and declare his political will to stop this claim here by defending the positions of the public. You said you'd move in with the services and we'd like to say that, but the trial at the courtroom is on Tuesday. How will this mobilisation be done? So if Mera25 didn't ask that question, wouldn't you be aware of this huge issue? These are very important issues. I am really mild in expressing this huge issue. Because if we were to mobilize and ask three topical questions about this issue, it is because we saw that there was no government mobilisation. There was an attitude "it's okay, we'll find it with the Church and if we lose it, we'll find them, we'll give them something else, we'll trade it." It's not like that. First of all, this creates very bad impressions as to how the government and the political leadership move, as to the interests of the Church. He gives the message to the citizens that where the Church is, we are not tempted. I may be wrong with you, but that's the message that goes through. At the same time we have the interests of the citizens who are defenceless in a degraded area. The parks in the area, the few parks and green areas, plus schools and all. And it's not just the Church. Again, I will repeat that, behind the Church, privates, with the same proof, followed by the same contracts. If the Church wins, there will be not only a state’s interlocutor against what is going to happen which is essentially a violation of public land in Poikilo Mount and the area of Peristeri, Petroupoli and Haidari. They'll be the private after. And then it'll become even more complicated. And we have to remember that this is a case, Minister, which started with a piece of land and came to claim a whole mountain. It is - I will say it - like Turkey's claims, every few minutes and increasing. Even judicially, they grow every little bit. An end must be made, and it must be legally brought to an end in this case. We can no longer enter into court disputes on an obvious matter that some are lost and some are won. There's got to be a legalization. This natural park, which is provided for in the regulatory system, must be made. It's not done. You can do it. You can do it right away with PNR, just like it happened at the C.E.T.E.L.E.L.E.L.D. This is so important, as it is one of the mountains of Athens, an entire mountain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u78	Mr Arseni, perhaps the politically correct - perhaps, I say - was to appear as a superhuman minister here who knows all the issues, has visited all the areas in question and all the areas in question and has a personal witness. I preferred to be honest. I've been to Tritsi Park and I have a point of view, same or different to yours, but I have a personal opinion. I've been to the Shah Sue forest, and I have one of my own opinions that I submitted beforehand. I have not been to this estate, which is why I said what the services say. Obviously, to read them and present them to the House here, I am bound, or I would not read them. But I wanted to make a sincere position with you to upgrade parliamentary control, if you like. I appreciate your initiative, I see your good faith, without any doubt, your interest in the environment, but I would like you not to underestimate my good faith and my interest in the environment. I'm trying to speak out of molds and out of what I told you, the politically correct. Mr Arseni, in this spirit, I would like to tell you that the court of appeal, whether I had this place, or have had your place, will be held on Tuesday anyway and will depend on the judges' judgement. The parties will appear, the state will be represented, each one will say his views and place the court of appeal. And the state had a certain attitude, which is reflected by what I have read to you and by the rejection of objections, compared to the forest maps, of all the other relevant information I have presented to you. From that point on, it's our commitment. They will see the subject and the Environment Secretariat and the Spatial Planning Secretariat. If you want, let's go together and see the area together, see how the matter can be resolved, so that the Church is not complained, but that the inhabitants of the region, who, above all, especially in this area - Policilo Mount, Aegaelo and the others - are entitled to have better conditions of life.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u79	We are now moving on to the first with number 946/26-9-2019 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Take up the worrying reduction in the level of Lake Coronia and ensure long-term ecological upgrading". Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to make it clear that we are coming here after a written question which has not been answered, so I do not have the time to present it all in two minutes. I also want to say that there is a weakness. I understand that the oral reason cannot formulate all the data and we also need some documents. Perhaps from the course of the question you will come back with some written text. You understand we won't be able to solve everything here today. I have to tell you that this question has been tabled because there has been a course in the last three years, if you would like, to restore a number of ecosystem rhythms in the Ornithonian and Lake Fishery, due to the work of the master plan, which was eventually completed in 2017 and 2018, and there has been a negative event that you, due to the reduction of the level, in hydraulic parameters, that was also associated with rainfall, and to a widespread killing of fish in the Cornelian region, which is probably related to the anommia, but I would also say that some projects in the area have not been maintained. That is why we wanted, with the experience we have had since the previous period, to help to get the problem restored more quickly, because there is no reason to reproduce such a negative phenomenon, if you like. Fortunately, the analyses of the veterinary service show that we do not have pathogens, that is, we do not have any parasites and some pathogens in the region. However, there were several projects launched in 2005 in the region. They didn't go well. We have done a great deal of work and with funding from the Public Investment Programme, in difficult years - I am talking about 2016-2017, which we did not have budgetary margins - to complete the projects, because in 2013 the country was referred to the European Court of Justice for five works of the master plan, which had not been carried out by the previous governments, and since 2016 there has been an effort by the Special Secretariat for Water to coordinate the operation of the projects after the master plan. We now come to this period, which, on 30 August, by decision of the Special Secretary, determines the role of all operators for the management of the plumbing system and the ecological system in the region, but it seems that there is now a great deficit there. I am not talking at all about the issue of the actions of the Ministry of Rural Development, which we must create - the political world - a common front to implement what has been delayed for at least fifteen years, namely the restriction of irrigation and the use of anti-motors with new technologies in the region. But I am referring to how we will manage the already existing projects, now that the Special Secretariat for Water has been abolished. Because that is the first thing we need to solve, Mr Hatzidakis. The coordination of these projects was in the Special Secretariat for Water. The Government has been abolishing the Special Secretariat for Waters since its creation. In order to cover this weakness, however - and knowledge, not only of operational tools - it came with a meeting of bodies called by the Deputy Minister of Macedonia - Thrace to discuss things that were already decided. That is why we have intervened with this question. In other words, the division of roles already exists by decision of 30 August and it was an obligation for the Region of Central Macedonia to clean up the works, the treasury that will bring water to the lake. We are talking about something very simple, which with the civil protection mechanism, with the work machinery, could become the "block" - forgive me for the term - so that the lake does not have such a rapid drop. This, as an alarm element, already existed in the plan as of 30 August. Unfortunately, however, because of the abolition of the Special Secretariat for Waters and also because of the lack of information, this has not been established. So I start with the first question, Mr Hatzidakis, which is about why the immediate clean-up measures in the region and the rehabilitation of the lake for this year's period, for 2019, and what other information you have for managing the master plan projects, have not been implemented. And I will come back with the rest, as I have told you, because the written question is too great and not everything can be presented within two minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u82	Mr Famele, the question is a big one, and it is a big one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u83	It's a long story, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u84	And a long story, many years of age, that you know it anyway better than me, because you're also a member of the region, you live there. It's a sad story for many years. At times various attempts have been made. I was in the region at the beginning of September, again with the Secretary-General, and I had made statements and said that there was actually progress. I have no reason to question it, and the European Commission accepts it. On the other hand, as far as progress was concerned and as much as it was true, the truth was that the situation was fragile. I think I used that word at the time, and indeed it was twenty days ago in my statement that it was fragile, because we had a series of unfavourable developments that you described. We're not abducted. In other words, the meeting, which took place at that time with our Secretary-General, Mr Arafase, and the Deputy Minister of Interior, responsible for Macedonia-Thracy, Mr Karaoglou, dealt with all these issues and there was another meeting in the meantime. You will now tell me 'conferences and committees' and you might agree with you first, but some method must go ahead. Apart from the meetings, we already have a commitment from the Green Fund that it can finance a series of projects of up to EUR 800 000 to carry out a series of actions in the lake. We have also instructed the relevant services and services related to the NRP to see the issues of biological cleansing in a series of settlements around - around, because you understand and I am sure you agree that otherwise we are doing a silencing work. I mean, we're doing the unified moat with Volvi. We try to put more water on, try to make some interventions to clean water and from the surrounding villages we continue to pollute the lake, along with other agricultural activities, such as pesticides, fertilisers that may make the situation worse. Organic cleansing must go ahead and I have said that it is a priority for us. But you know, you're an engineer, that we have some studies. We're not in the world of cartoons, that we decide to do a biological cleansing, and we have it tomorrow morning. It is also the responsibility of all the parties involved, and in the area there, to do their job as quickly as possible. There is also - you have mentioned and I agree with you - the issue of what is going to happen with the Ministry of Rural Development, with farmers and with the compensation of farmers, so that the drop irrigation proceeds, that fertilisers and pesticides will not fall into the lake. That way, and because time is heading for it, you will tell me and I will tell you again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, time is indeed very difficult for such a big issue. I shall focus a little on the first point I raised. The operation of the restoration works is very important, so I will table the decision of the Special Secretary for Water on 30 August 2018 on what roles are in the area. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I suspect that you have it, but also for institutional reasons, I must do so, because we must insist on this measure being implemented. So it seems incomprehensible to me to have built plumbing there and not clean them up, so that the drain toward the lake is reinhibited and the lake dryed. I think it is unacceptable and humanly unacceptable. It is not just about institutional function, and that is why it makes me particularly surprised how we got to this phenomenon at the end of the summer when we simply had to clear a moat. Let me tell you that the request which came to the Ministry in April - because I was informed about it, as I was still at the Ministry - did not have the cleaning study. On the other hand, let me tell you that these hundreds of thousands of euros you described do not need to start cleaning a moat. This can then come as a second task of the administration. I do not think it is necessary to have an immediate intervention in the region. The second issue, which I would like to say to you, is that from what we know on your visit, but then, the bodies were informed in writing about the fall of the lake level. The body, in other words, described it to you on your visit - because we also visited the region - and there is also a document in my hands that says that there is a dangerous level drop and that the services need to be quick. But we did not see that happening. However, what I would like to come to the second part of the question is: we are asking you to give us whether there are any control data from the activities in the area, which are related to the biological cleansing of the city of Lagada, the HITA of Mavrorachi, because there is great concern for the residents. When we visited the end of September, we were told that there is colored water that ends up in the lake. So something might happen. I think that the services and the College of Inspectors can deliver to you and give us documents which are of quality measurements and the phenomenon of ecological degradation. I also wanted to refer to the last thing you said about biological cleansing projects in the region. Watch out for the area, biological cleansing projects have already been included, and even since the previous period. I am not saying from the previous government, it is a series of institutions that do so. So for Zagcliveri and for Sophie we have the following: EUR 6.2 million for Zagcliveri and 4.3 million for Sohoe has been integrated. However, by our decision projects were included in the priority list in Lagada, Lower School, Laguna, Kavalari and Assiros next to the lake. So since we have taken the first political decision, we have made a priority list, a national waste water management plan in cooperation with DG REGIO, and have now submitted it to the European Commission, and our country has a modern tool, the question that remains in the next political leadership is this: has it planned the integration of these projects or just what you announced that you went to the lake was a promise that already existed since the programming of the previous political leadership? Mr. Hatzidakis, I don't like the expressions of impression. We have made progress in the development of projects in the region, and there have also been political decisions on the priority list. Have you done anything to move a step further? That is what we are interested in and whenever you are ready to give it to us, because we are particularly interested in the region because of the lake and also because of my origin. Unfortunately, there are discussions and notice them. I'm telling you personally. Some want to abolish responsibility for project monitoring. There are correspondence between new operators in the region. Don't put a base on the sirens. The question is, now that we have found a route for Europe, for the works to function and for biological cleansing to proceed. They don't need games of political power in Coronea. Hard games have been played, the country has been tarnished for a while in Coronea. Now we have created a route that you can really continue the work we have delivered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u87	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u88	Mr Famele, first of all, let me say that from the information we have from the region of Central Macedonia, the whole development of things, the management of the matter by the Special Secretariat for Waters that you have referred to, it was not satisfactory. Their contacts, their cooperation with the Region of Central Macedonia were not satisfactory and things are considerably less positive than you present them. I have no reason to insist on this. I want to stand on two other elements. One element is biological cleansing. Regardless of how mature or not biological cleansing is, we know that we have several hundred million euros at the edge of biological cleansing throughout the country. So, it's the ministry's priority, obviously. We should not have contact with common sense if we do not want to make use of these funds. Where we're ready, we'll run faster. And, of course, in Cornelia, because it cannot continue for so many years the problem that exists there. If you want my own personal opinion, I think that the system of institutions for protected areas, regardless of the intentions of people, who in many cases are well-known scientists, suffers because they do not have the responsibilities required, they do not have the resources and it is not clear what the institutions are doing, what the regions and so on. It is therefore necessary, in the light of the support of the protected areas, to revise the plan in question. We are not doomed to agree, but I believe that, especially on the issue of Cornelia, any review of planning and doing, because the Ministry of Agriculture will be involved, the Ministry of Interior will be involved, the region will be involved, a thousand will be involved - I think, this is a perception that I am dealing with, it may be strange - a coordinator, a project manager, who, as they say in the military with 108, will take it from the beginning to the end. Otherwise, we'll be late, and we'll have problems. You say yours, I will say mine, but the problem will not be dealt with. This will also be my suggestion to the Prime Minister, because this matter goes beyond the limits of our Ministry, to deal with this concept. As far as responsibilities are concerned, no one can say that there are no responsibilities over time on this issue. I would say that we do not insist much on the responsibilities of the last quarter, because we have not yet started. Let us not oppose this spirit. We are here to work together, looking forward to dealing with this issue and creating a new positive picture of this very beautiful region, indeed, which is in danger of being a memory. Her beautiful image is at stake, if we don't do what we have to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Minister. We will now discuss the third question with number 979/27-9-19 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Designing and resources for the fair transition of lignite areas".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I would like to say a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u91	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u92	Mr Thomas is here, and Mr Thomas will answer, who is in charge. I need to leave for a very simple and well-known reason. At 12:30 - that is, ten minutes ago - we had the meeting with General PPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u93	Okay, I've said it myself. You had the meeting with the Chinese.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u94	So if we both stay here...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u95	I've already said that, Mr. Hatzidakis. So we move on to the question. Mr Famelos has the floor to develop his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, this question is an unanswered written question we had with colleagues. Mrs. Petis Perkas, Mrs. Chara Kafantaris, as well as Mrs. Vettas, Mr. Papaliou, Mrs. Tyloridou. Apart from the two of us - I mean Mrs Kafantaris - who have responsibility for the sector, there are all the Members of the lignite regions of the country, that is, areas dependent on lignite. First of all, I consider the question to be a very critical one. This question must also be the subject of a special sitting of the House. I also think the Minister should be here. When an issue such as liberation is placed the Prime Minister in the UN step, I think the answer is downgraded and why it was not given in writing, but why the Minister is not here. I told him, of course, in a way. The Undersecretary knows, as I've already told him from the outside. But let us look at the issue of defoliation that we all care about. Immigration was announced by the UN Step in 2028. But, Mr Deputy Minister, what Greek society knows is that deprivation has been announced without any plan. You have no plan for energy and climate leading to liberation in 2028 and, at the same time, you have no plan for a fair transition of regions that will have an impact on liberation. I know that you know these and technically and institutionally and from your term of office in the Directorate-General for Energy. I'm not telling you anything new. In trying to support the process of fair transition, because we really want our country to take a renewable energy path, not just for reasons of political impression, and because we are particularly concerned that this is done by the Prime Minister only for reasons of political impression and it does not have the right background for the country to actually move along the path of green development and renewable energy, we have asked this question about a fair transition. We told you, therefore, very specifically that we are aware of the European Union's effort. I and Mr Stathakis have also been with the previous Vice-President of the European Commission, and we have claimed the Fair Transition Fund in Europe. But we have taken a step further, and that is why we are asking you. So we want you to answer that. So the Ministry of the Environment has already found resources and has already created the whole institutional framework by two laws and by a ministerial decision, so that the Green Fund will now have in its hands for several months 30 million euros to go to Western Macedonia and Megalopolis. Indeed, they are fully specified and the ways in which the money and the reasons for it will be deposited, i.e. what objects will be made available, because a fair transition cannot wait. We cannot wait in 2021 if Europe creates a special fund. I read the announcements very carefully when you went to western Macedonia. You didn't say anything specific. We are therefore concerned for two reasons. We are concerned, firstly, because there is the tool and we are wondering whether you will use that money. When we took over the government, the Special EIA Account had a deficit of EUR 800 million. We have created a surplus, and from this surplus we have decided to fund a fair transition to the areas that have been giving energy to our country and to collect air pollution. So we have to do something right away. We ask you very specifically: why have you not activated the special resource in the Green Fund? And when are you going to make available this money, which I think is about 30 million, in the areas where it is needed? The rest of the problem of liberation will also be discussed in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u97	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much. Good morning, and I'm sorry again about the Minister's absence. I have to be with him, because we have a meeting with General PPC. I wanted to start by saying that the goal of liberating 2028 is important and ambitious. It was announced, as you said, by the Prime Minister. Also, accelerating liberation is the most ambitious target for climate neutrality. It has been announced as an objective by the new European Commission and by the new European Parliament. We are therefore in a process of speeding up the objectives of the Member States and of Europe in order to meet the problems of the environment. The fact is that the previous government had also begun to anticipate a frustration. Many of the units that will be closed between now and 2028 were already scheduled to close with national planning, which had been made from the country in January. And just to some of them, there will be an acceleration with the new draft announced by the Prime Minister. It is also right to say that some of the Greek state's remarks had been made not only by the previous government, but also much earlier, to prepare for liberation. Some units should have been closed in 2019, now that we are talking about, and some projects should have been done, which have not been done. So what I would like to say is that at the moment we have found some resources, but we have not found all the resources. One of the resources we are now mobilising is the 130 million from the end of PPC, which should have been attributed to the regions and municipalities since 2014. The procedures for mobilising these funds, of the 130 million, for western Macedonia and Megalopolis, were not mobilised. We have found some resources and we are preparing others, as we are preparing for the support of the Green Fund, which has 31.4 million. We are planning, that is, by deciding to strengthen this fund with an additional ECU 31.4 million for this year. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] The problem we have identified is that we have not found projects prepared by the regions, by the municipalities, by the various agencies to make use of these resources. Not that these works would be enough. There needs to be more effort. There were no projects in the sense not of ideas - projects, but in the sense of projects ready to be submitted and implemented. So we've, if you like, entered a triple process. The first is to ensure more resources at national level. What we can do now: We have convened the regional committees to make the end of PPC effective for the period 2014-2018. Secondly, we are negotiating funds in the European Energy Transfer Fund, which will be set up since 2021 and in which we must fight to ensure that the eligibility criteria are such as to favour our own regions. It is an attempt and we will continue from what you have started at this level too. However, we must focus on the eligibility criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u99	Pick up the answer, Mr. Undersecretary, because time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u100	The third is to make sure that the projects that can be done are concrete. As soon as the projects are mature, we will proceed to implement them immediately. These are projects that have begun, for example the Amphintio biomass plant - which will be ready in the spring, in the first half of 2020, before summer - as well as the coordination of district heating projects. The projects, however, which are ready for implementation are much less at this stage. We're making an effort to grow...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u101	Minister, the rest of you will tell us in your dentistry. I can't leave you any more time. Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. I think we need to clarify a few things, because it's probably not understood what the ministry's planning is. It is true, Minister, that we have indeed laid the basis for the National Plan on Energy and Climate and for the process of liberation with specific objectives and specific procedures, as well as for the Fair Transfer Fund. The question put to you is why you haven't done anything so far. Since you are also changing the planning - you make it more optimistic - it must therefore be more well supported. However, you have referred to a lack of planning from the region and from these regions. You're wrong. The first thing we need to clarify is that the Fair Transit Fund is not just for public works. The Fair Transfer Fund is to create a new entrepreneurship and new work in lignite areas not only to make public infrastructure, but because 45% of the local gross product must be replaced by lignite in other economic forms in western Macedonia. So who told you that you need to find ready studies of projects? And much more when it is specific about the VAT which has been published for the Fair Transfer Fund, which already exists in the Green Fund, and it says what projects are being financed. For example, it says: "Building a detailed development plan at operational level by the Municipality of Megalopolis". So why don't you declare any of this money that the City of Megalopolis will make a plan for a fair transition that it doesn't have? Does that have to grow? You just have to make the call. Secondly, it proposes investing in sewage treatment from sewage treatment plants in western Macedonia. Why don't you place the measure on the Green Fund? It's written. The project is specific. It's not fantastic. Thirdly, it proposes support for enterprises in the field of renewable energy sources in cooperation with research centres. Why don't we do this? While Western Macedonia has research centres, why don't you publish them? We ask you about the measure concerning the creation of businesses. It also proposes to finance sustainability and development studies of energy communities projects. It's very specific, Mr. Undersecretary. They're written in FEK. They're not supposedly anywhere. In particular, the region requested them. We held a public debate a year and a half to get two legislative initiatives and a ministerial decision. And you have it in particular. And we are now coming now, furthermore: you have mentioned that projects will be financed in the 130,000, 000 to the region. But this is PPC's obligation, Minister. It's not something the state does. It's the lignite. Obviously it is an obligation for PPC to finance these projects in the region. But we ask what the state will do. You have resources. Welcome that in 2019 you will put another 30,000,000 euros. You're doing well and you're still on our way. But you're not gonna put them in a cash register. You must put them in the area, invest in new businesses, new entrepreneurship, new jobs. A fair transition is jobs. It is not some projects that the region will imagine when it grows. This is where things are urgent. A fair transition is a reality. You must tell us in particular how a fair transition is to take place. If you simply take out a title "fair transition" after 2021 to consider some public works, the area will die. We also want the region to live and live better than the governments of previous years had to do, because there were also environmental deficits in the region. And I will tell you something very specific, Mr Secretary, to answer us: last week most of us tabled an amendment to the development bill, and we said that a special chapter should be set up in the development law on a fair transition to Western Macedonia. We're talking about private entrepreneurship. So if you are such good supporters of private entrepreneurship, why did you reject the amendment? It's a fair transition, it's a development law and you want entrepreneurship. Why did you reject it then? When will a fair transition begin? That is a crucial question for us. Do you know that we have tabled an amendment? Do you know that he was rejected by the Ministry of Development? What for? We expected the Ministry of the Environment to submit such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u103	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. We have announced that the overall planning for a fair transition will be made with a structured master plan, which will involve the various Ministries. The Minister and Prime Minister are also committed. It will be a national case, which will be promoted by the Ministry of Energy and the Environment, by the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Rural Development, the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Tourism. The procedure for the Interministerial Committee has been initiated. The master plan that will be made for fair growth will be strengthened by new resources and submitted in June 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u105	That's different.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u106	We have resources to start processes and start works now. They are resources that are there, but they are also the ones that you have in the Green Fund and those that we will put this year and the 130,000, 000 we will get from PPC. And it takes the Ministry's initiative to give it to PPC without convening the committees. That's what we're doing. And that hadn't been done for five years. This money will start to be implemented now. This broader planning, which will also have money from the European Union and from the new NSRP - will have increased resources - we will discuss it with the institutions and regions affected. We have launched a consultation process in both western Macedonia and Megalopolis and the Peloponnese, so that we have an integrated and new plan, which will have many aspects. It will not only have the theme of the Ministry of Finance and Development, but also the issues of the Ministry of Labour about the retraining of people and the issues of the Ministry of Rural Development, which will be submitted in 2020, so that we can have a decade of implementation before us. This plan is already being prepared and adapted to a defoliation which will take place in some places more quickly under new conditions. The fact that your proposals have not entered this development law does not mean that many of the things you have set up will not be part of the broader planning that will be done and submitted after consulting the institutional representatives of the regions in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too. The fourth question will then be discussed under number 137/23-10-2019, first question by the Greek Parliamentarian, Mr. Vassiliardou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "People for whom the electrical connection at Attica - Crete is being promoted as a national project". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I shall refer to my prototype in the first question and the second one in the next. The electrical interconnection of Crete with Attiki is about selling two cables with a total capacity of 1,000 MW along with the conversion substations. It has been reported that it will meet the energy needs on the island if the operation of the high cost of thermal units is stopped there. In other words, we are talking about a reduction in the OHIM charges of EUR 400,000,000 per annum over the next twenty years. I'll put it down later in the Minutes. It also states that it will ensure the adequate supply of Crete. It is, however, noted that a smaller connection between Crete and the Peloponnese capacity of 2 x 200 MW is already under construction and is expected to end the time. It will also be submitted to the Minutes. The European Union has now expressed concerns or objections regarding China's entry into the strategic energy sector, both in relation to the participation of the Chinese company STATE GRID to IPTO, as well as the acquisition of 75% of the wind farms with a total production capacity of 1,500 MW operating and developing in Greece. It will also be submitted to the Minutes. The European Union prefers the competitive link between Israel, Cyprus, Greece, the Euro Asia Interconnector via Crete, to which I shall refer. Recently, you said that the work of the Attica - Crete electrical interconnection is to be launched exclusively with national resources of EUR 900,000. However, with the 2020 budget, the national part of public investment amounts to only EUR 750,000,000 from EUR 1,250,000,000 in the medium term for the years 2018-2022. Since the connection is to be completed by 2022, it is likely to absorb a large part of the national component every year, which we consider to be very problematic. In this regard, my question is this: why is there a national project promoted as a link and what is its consequences for the state budget and for our relations with the European Union? If the project was carried out under the ESDP, national participation would be 15%, according to the most recent practice. It is noted that the project was included in the ESRB and that is why I tabled a written question on 8 August, in which I wrote that we are threatened by a loss of EUR 335 million of Community funds, which was not answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u109	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday the new list of the European Commission was published as a proposal in the European Parliament, which must be consulted on projects of transnational European priority. This list has already shown that the Attica - Crete project is national on the basis of the Greek Government's decisions and proposals on 4-10-2019 and the Crete - Cyprus - Israel part remains a project of European interest. That's the first. Secondly, the competitions for the implementation of the Attica - Crete project have been successfully terminated. The first one for the cable contract expired on 5 August 2019. The evaluation is progressing normally and the cable contract is foreseen for the 2-12-2019. The invitation to tender for the conversion substations is dated today. It is expected that its assessment will proceed normally and the contract of the substation was foreseen on 23 December, due to the switchover of the initial date of the tender. It can come in January at the beginning of next year, but it is planned to move on properly. The third project has been prepared as a national via ARIADNE, which is a construction company for this purpose, and in which an IPTO 200 million share capital has already been deposited, and which will allow the necessary lending to proceed properly. Therefore, by progressing the project as a national we have ensured that the project is implemented immediately, the competitions are running immediately and there are no adherences created by the first promoter of the previous project, which considers the European project and which has followed up complaints about the implementation of the project, which have all been lost to the Greek courts up to the highest level. This project is national, the revenues from this project are national, the rapid implementation of this project is a matter of national importance, not only for the supply of Crete, but also for economic data. The sooner the project becomes, the less the YMOs will be, which cost the unconnected situation in Cyprus. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] No side effects. We have often been able to do so by the previous government, but also by me. For one month we negotiated in September, trying to allow EURO ASIA, the first promoter of the project as a whole, to participate in the financing of ARIADNI. It did not make timely proposals and we stayed in the policy it began, I must say, the previous government having the same problem, the untimely financing of the project by EURO ASIA, which was the first promoter of the previous project. We therefore succeed in speeding up the implementation of the project so that we can move on to this project immediately, which was being blocked in the previous way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u111	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Minister, for the answer, although it was not entirely satisfactory. The rival project in Attica - Crete, the association of Israel - Cyprus - Greece through Crete is a European network, EuroAsia Interconnector and is promoted by the European Union, DG Energy. It will be a capacity of 2,000 MW at a cost of 3,5 billion euros. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The first part of this project between Crete and Attica, with a capacity of 1,000 MW, should be ready by 2022. In other words, it has the same capacity as the IPTO. The project will be constructed by the Cypriot company ‘EUROASIA INTERCONNECTOR LTD’, involving the Belgian power grid company ‘ELIA GROUP’. ELIA GROUP is listed on its website as a Belgian company, since it is based in Belgium and manages the network of the country. In addition, the network of northern Germany in the Hamburg region is managed by the local company ‘50HERTZ TRANSMISSION GMBH’. On the board of "ELIA GROUP" there are both Germans and Belgians. So someone could say that it's lower-German. The Kopelou Group has, in cooperation with the construction "TERNA", made a joint investment of EUR 2.4 billion in wind parks in Crete. It has been reported that the capacity will be 950 MW, that is, the capacity of the large interconnection and exceeds the consumption of Crete. It will also be registered in the Minutes. The following questions also arise: First, what is the most appropriate method of implementing the association between Crete and the mainland, the ASIA INTERCONNECTOR, or ARIADNE INTERCONNECTOR, from the financial, budgetary and geopolitical aspects, of course? Secondly, why is it necessary to link IPTO, when only the small one can provide a partial availability, covering with the winds the needs of the island? Is that true? Or is it to channel energy from winds, which will not be possible via 'ASIA INTERCONNECTOR'? Thirdly, are state funds used to serve a private competitor of PPC, namely the transport of energy from the wind parks of Koplos - ‘TERNA’? Fourthly, is the attitude of the European Union discriminatory in favour of the 'ELIA GROUP'? And fifthly, what is the truth of what and the possibilities of the Copeluzou Group and the tax paid? We cannot know that because there seems to be no published balance sheet at maternal level. It will also be submitted to the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u113	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much. I think that a part of the questions that have now been asked has been overcome by reality. The project is now national. The European Union has accepted that it is national and, as I said earlier, the list of projects of European interest was published without this project last night. There is therefore also official publication and presentation to the European Parliament on this basis. This work is essential for Crete. The small interconnection can serve a small part of Crete's needs, since many of these power stations in Crete are environmentally inappropriate and need to be closed. We have been convicted by the European Court of Justice of some of these stations and others have permits which will end for environmental reasons in the years to come. Thirdly, it is necessary to develop renewable energy sources in Crete, as in all the years to come. The strategic planning already provided for 31% of renewable energy penetration in the country's energy mix. We will increase this to 35%, which means that about 60% of the electricity in the country between now and 2030 will be produced from renewable energy sources. The specific interconnection of Attica - Crete does not make any difference from who it would be, whether it would be from 'EURO ASIA' or from Attiki - Crete and I will return to it. It would serve the electricity needs of the island and would, of course, serve the needs of restructuring the energy production of the island, which, by being purely importable, could also become exportable. Please provide specific permits for the installation of renewable energy sources on the island. These licences are independent of production, from the cable process to be done. Either these or other projects are done, they will be served by the same cable. In the third part on the interconnection with Cyprus, when the interconnection of Crete - Cyprus - Israel is made by the "EURO ASIA", which has undertaken the rest of the project, the interoperability is ensured, the interconnectivity of the Greek cable with any project for the remaining interconnection from Crete to Cyprus. As far as the funding is concerned, I replied earlier. It is therefore in the interest of the Greek state to make the project quickly and it is in the interest of the Greek consumer to make the project quickly so that the YOIs which we pay for the non-interconnected islands can be reduced every time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u115	Before we go to the circle of questions to be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr Kontozamanis, I wanted to take note of the request from a colleague from the Change Movement, who must be in a party vote and ask for it to be preceded. This can only be done if you approve. It is Mrs Evangelia Likikolis, who has a vote because of the PASOK conference. Does the House agree to precede Mrs Liikanen's question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u116	The House has agreed. So now we are discussing the second question by number 136/22-10-2019, first question by the Member of Parliament, Larissa, of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Degraded General Hospital of Larissa means a deterioration of public health for the whole prefecture." Mrs Liikanouli, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Thank my colleagues very much. I really appreciate it. Minister, the Larissa Medical Association made a statement and a memorandum which sent you and has six points which are a hot potato in your hands. It says, therefore, that doctors retire, paramedics are fired, medical equipment ageing, the self-sufficiency of the administration after separation from the University General Hospital has not yet been seen, missing clinically, building infrastructure is declining, health centres are abandoned. This is the picture presented by the Larisa Prefecture in health. I tweeted the question "Degraded General Hospital of Larissa" and this means a deterioration of public health throughout the prefecture, without making verbalisms. I really wanted to tell you that it is an essential truth. Larissa is a great county, it's the fifth county. We now have three hundred thousand inhabitants together with our students, our university, the Armed Forces you are now strengthening them. We have two independent and strong health structures that are, unfortunately, at least one of them at the moment. There has been a constant deterioration in recent years. The findings of the Association of Doctors and Nurses, unfortunately. The meetings with the administrations are on a lasting basis. All the institutions of the county, district, municipality, doctors, nurses, MPs are there in order to help this issue. The tight embrace of the two hospitals was not in the interest of patients. We must recognise that the previous leadership of the Ministry of Health understood the timeless mistake and decided to reindependently. This led to the publication in March 2019. At the same time, a top issue was decided, Minister, that is to say to transfer the Gastrointestinal Clinic of the Larissa General Hospital, which is not a term. That is to say, the system does not work in simple terms, and this is being delayed and, as a result of the elections, it is still delayed. So we are asking the following questions today. The overall strategic planning of your Ministry for the operation of Larissa General Hospital, sub-station, degradation, sub-financing and, secondly, the operation of the Gastro-Clinic, is something on your horizon? Have you made up your mind? Will you offer it to the county, as you must? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the first part of the question is concerned, Mrs Liikanou, I would like to say that there is certainly a plan not only for the Larissa Prefecture, but for all hospitals and health structures on the ground. We have often stressed, repeating, that the situation we have received is what you are describing in the Larissa Prefecture, and the situation is the same in most regions of the country. We are trying first to ensure the economic viability of the system and to plan the necessary interventions with regard to both the staff required in the system for the proper and secure functioning of the system and the necessary resources. Now, as far as Gastroenterological Clinic is concerned, there is certainly a desire to transfer a gastro-responsible clinic from the University Hospital to the General Hospital of Larissa. I must inform you that there are technical issues which we will resolve next week at the Ministry of Health's legislative initiative, because there is a need to amend the Larissa Hospital Agency. You know very well that the amendments were made by a presidential decree and there were extensions in order to draw up and amend the agencies by means of joint ministerial decisions. The last extension granted was until June 2019. We are therefore moving on to a legislative initiative to resolve this issue and we believe that in very few days we will be able to amend the Organisation of the Legal Hospital and transfer the Gastro-Clinic there. And of course this legislative initiative that we are taking will help us resolve other similar issues in the rest of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u120	Mrs Lykoulis has the floor for her second language for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I listen with great interest to what you say to us, particularly to the will. You know, of course, that this is not enough, because the will is not just an announcement from the current government. Will and also action - to be fair - there was also from previous governments. Because the decision taken to separate the two hospitals was a decision that has been taken. This decision was taken on 15-11-2018. So you found a decision that was taken to render fair. Now you call on you to implement the decision, which has already been taken by the Ministry and the relevant administrations. In simple terms - in order to understand each other as well - you need to issue a CSM in this regard, which will amend the body and effectively reconstitute the clinic. That's what you have to do. You should have done it already. Because you make a misgiving, one of the prisoners. We are already late, nor can we celebrate something that we have already won for a year. So we'll say we're late, but we'll do it. And that's fair and fair. I'm going a little further. As far as Gastroenterological Clinic is concerned, this myth of how it works, where it works, if there are parallel overlaps and so on. See that it is a great prefecture and so it needs this structure, perfection and dash. We don't need backs in decisions. Because that is what I understand that is happening and I do not want to say anything else. Just say that, Minister, and know that. All the collective struggles - because I see that the President, Mr Lambroulis, MP of the Communist Party of Greece in Larissa, with whom I share this question, because he has asked himself a topical question about the issue of the Larissa General Hospital and many other colleagues and too many institutions and many ordinary citizens with a daily letter and intervention - are not something that can be given to persons or governments. Public health is a good thing, which we all have to safeguard with dignity as a valuable and sensitive national product. So we have to deal with it so that we are right in our parliamentary role and in our parliamentary duties. In other words, with only one word, Mr President, I would like to say that we have many problems here. It's a trauma, Minister, Larissa General Hospital, and you know it. I invite you to visit us and I am delighted to accompany you to this to see that we have very great problems in orthopedic. We have very big problems in that we cannot yet implement legitimisation decisions because of a complex of legislation that you need to correct. Legislative initiatives, assigning this issue, in order to have a definitive solution at all levels. I welcome all the initiatives that have been taken and your will. I am very anxious to see that, in the next two or three days, I imagine - because signatures are expected and nothing else, I repeat the decision has been made - that it should finally be implemented and delivered to the Larissa society as it deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u122	The Minister has the floor for his answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. I said in my prototype that next week there is a legislative initiative in order to be able to modify the hospital organisation and operate Gastrointestinal Clinical. So the procedures will be speedy. Indeed, the transfer of the Gastro-Clinic has come to a stage and we will be very soon ready to operate. You spoke of will. Of course, there's always a will. Everyone is judged by the result. And I think that in the very short time of our term of office we have specific results to show and, where necessary, we are intervening directly and indirectly. Let me take a little historical regression on the Larissa Hospital. We all know, and especially you, the Members of the Region of Thessaly, that there was Gastro-Clinic there and had been transferred to the University Hospital in order to develop the University Hospital at that time. Perhaps that was the result of a bad design. Our will is therefore our priority and our aim is to develop all those structures in order to provide adequate health services for the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Minister. There has been a mutual change in understanding - you know it - between Mr Papastasis and Mr Xanthos. So we move on with the twelfth question under number 130/22-10-2019 of the second cycle of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nicholas Papastastasis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Essential state at the Lefkada Hospital and the primary health care of the region". Mr Papapastasis has the floor to develop his timely question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the content of the current question concerns the conditions and level of health services in Lefkada, both at primary level and at the hospital in the region. Today in Lefkada, the state of health in general is now explosive, dramatic. Some analytical evidence that substantiates this situation is as follows. The agricultural medical offices of the island have been closed since 2014. At the Vasiliki Health Center, which covers the southern Lefkada, one of the twenty-two organic posts of doctors intended to serve there are only three. The building has been in a tragic state and has not been maintained since it was built. The same situation in the PEDY, the former IKA in Lefkada, where only two doctors serve. In the primary health system there are only two dentists, while in the hospital no one, so that citizens put a deep hand in the pocket for dental examinations and actions. The dental unit of AMEA, which was created manually in 2012, has been shut down for years and the surgical equipment offered by the club of AMEAs for its operation is rotting in the old hospital of the city. The hospital's been staying with an anesthesiologist for five months. Twenty days a month is without newspaper coverage, so patients who will need emergency intubation will be at risk. The same situation prevails in the artificial kidney unit, with a nephroologist for seven months, which has exceeded the limits of physical and mental endurance. Also, few days have caused inadequate movements of anesthetics for the month September and October and nephrologue for the month September from neighboring hospitals and beyond. According to the archaic establishment plan 2012 at the hospital, twenty permanent specialists serve forty-five organic posts and fourteen assistants. Only one resident serves when the organic positions are fourteen. In addition, they are at risk of dismissal of six auxiliary specialists working in the hospital for five years, since the notice does not ensure continuity of their work. The background to this situation is sub-funding and marketing health. This is a policy that the current government continues to take away from where the previous governments left it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u126	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Papastasis, for the timely question concerning Lefkada and your region, because it brings us memories in mind when former Prime Minister Tsipras cut ribbon to the hospital and finally seems to be the nudity of the hospital and the rest of the area in terms of providing health services. Indeed, we know that there are problems and we are trying to resolve the emergency with temporary solutions, and we certainly need stable and permanent solutions. We know that there is a need to recruit doctors in the specificities of anesthesiology and nephrology. We don't stay awkward. We have proceeded to concrete actions, such as the movement of personnel from neighbouring health areas, the announcement of subsidiary posts and the expression of an invitation from a private doctor anesthetic who would meet the needs of the region. However, I said that we need to provide permanent and not temporary solutions so that the health system can stand on its feet and reconstruct and do not resort to 'blocks' and semimeters. To this end, we shall complete the recruitments pending on the crisis boards and staff selection of the 6th Health Region. I am referring specifically to the specialities of surgery and pathology in general medicine. Our aim is for these procedures to be completed by the end of the year. We also have new intakes of doctors and have completed the distribution in hospitals and have anticipated the distribution of eleven posts of doctors, curators II in the hospital. In closing, and because you refer to the second part of your topical question on the subject of contractors, I would like to say once again that the termination of contracts is not dismissal. Unfortunately, it is a natural development that everyone knows when they are employed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Papastasis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, recording these problems is very recent and what you said has already been done, unfortunately the people of Lefkada have not seen them. I will not question the evidence you mentioned, but it is not currently registered as providing services from the people of Lefkada. Apart from that, recording the promises we have heard as a perspective for the immediate next period, is something that the people of Lefkada are constantly listening to and listened to from the previous government. Unfortunately, we and the people are - if you like - 'trained' not to accept as a realistic and effective promise what we hear. Promises we're full of. You know very well that people die every day, are troubled, tortured in their desperation and fund. Do you know these, Minister, yes or no? To tell things by their name, doctors exist. Our universities are making highly trained doctors. Nurses also exist. There are plenty of nurses, but they are unemployed, with their schools producing uninterruptedly new ones. Material infrastructure also exists, and even modern ones. Finally, the beautiful words of the great ones at each inauguration ceremony are abundant. We, Minister, people, workers, pensioners, actually know it, because we live it. The verbatims - you will allow me to use a popular expression - we hear them vervesse. Minister, we're finally calling for projects. The Lefkadadians and the Lefkadadians take note of your every conversation. We promise to monitor closely and to implement them. You are already told that the content of your answer does not solve the problems that exist today. Your health policy is disastrous for the people. Your policy is literally killing. The only effective way out that you show the people for primary and secondary health care is to resort to the private sector, with unreasonable tariffs and with further deprivation of the public healthcare sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u130	For three minutes, the Minister has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u131	I do not have anything to add, Mr President, as far as Mr Papapastasis' dentistry is concerned, because it concerns issues of broader health policy. I think we have repeatedly been placed on these issues. I just want to repeat once again that we have made temporary solutions to solve the burning issues, not only in Lefkada, but everywhere. Our aim remains the permanent solutions, with specific procedures, both funding and recruitment of staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, Minister. We move on, in the thirteenth, with number 114/18-10-2019, to a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arsenis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Application for approval for the medical treatment for Panagiotis' disease - Rafael Glossiotis". Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, we think this is a very important matter. We would like to see the Minister himself, but we understand that you have been appointed as a representative. We welcome you. The issue is well-known. It is the issue of Rafael - Panayiotis, the child who has been tortured very much with the State's panels, whether or not to have support for this necessary gene therapy in America. It is an issue that does not only concern Rafael - Panagiotis, because it is an issue that is repeated. We used to have another kid who was hit by a bullet and had to go back abroad. There, again with refluxes, the treatment was finally approved. It is not possible every time these issues arise, to take us as a state of three months alone with social pressure, because they raise the money from the citizens, and finally to have the ministry's response. There should be a permanent way of dealing with these issues. It is not possible for them to be subject to the philosophies of the Greeks. There must be one way, when there is no other treatment in Greece and the life of a man is judged, to be able to fund a treatment abroad, because otherwise we are violating the basic principles - not Hippocrates - of the support of a fellow man when they exist in the past. What happened with the terrible delay cost the child. It has irreversible effects on its health, and that is why there is political responsibility. So I would like here to hear from you what you are going to do so that no citizen does this thing happen again, to no child, to no adult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me make something clear at the outset, because Mr Arsenis, you are referring to it in your question. The question of the initial rejection of a transition from the Panagiotis to the outside was not an economic one, and it has never been raised, because of course, before saving a human life, it is not a question of money. The decision of the Higher Health Council was based on scientific data. We, as political leadership, had to keep up with this decision, which we naturally accepted, because the scientific community has the floor in these cases. You are well aware that the small Panagiotis is already on his way to America, because efforts have been made both at human level by the Government and the Minister of Health in order to ensure the resources so that the Panagiotis is gone to America. I should also like to point out that small Panagiotis is already receiving treatment, which costs almost a million euros a year to the Greek public. Also, the Higher Health Council in the past has approved high-cost treatments, more than one, two and three million euros. I would like to point out this in order to assure you once again that the issue was not an economic one but a scientific one. As far as the future is concerned, we all know that developments in medical technology are rapid. We all know that genes and cell therapies are coming, which we hope will give healing to diseases which harm the citizens and of course we must prepare to ensure citizens' access to these treatments. Because these new, accurate treatments are an issue that concerns not only our country, but also the rest of the world, there is planning, there is planning to ensure access to these treatments and to provide the necessary care for every citizen who needs such treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u136	Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, the story you describe to us doesn't make sense for a very simple reason. You say you should listen to the scientists, the Supreme Health Council. But at the end of the day, with the pressure from the citizens, you did something that exceeded their decision. I mean, this case was finally in your hands. He was consultative, if you please, the role of the board, as shown in this. So it was also in your hands and there is a political responsibility for the frugality in this case, a flaw that, as the experts say, has caused an irreparable burden on the health of the child, a burden that healing cannot be reversed. The treatment will be able to stop further problems, not the burden caused by these three months of oligopoly. And that's why, because this story, as I told you, has happened before, with the theme of the little girl in Thebe who was injured by a bullet, we see that there has to be a clear decision on how to handle things. It cannot be the responsibility of the Minister to stop or approve these decisions on the basis of any opinion. We must be able to move on, because they are health issues that concern our neighbor's child today, tomorrow our own child, the day after another person's death, and at some point an adult. I put it for a very simple reason. We saw your Ministry and the Minister take out a legislative act on the CTE. When there is absolutely no question, an act of legislative content that changes the way of running the CECE, with all the problems, the cost of charging, etc., comes out without any justification. Could it not be that, when it comes to the CTE, when this political will is found for unknown reasons, can it be found in the case of Panagiotis - Rafael, in the case of any other child and adult who will be in his place? There is a heavy political shadow in the Ministry and in the political leadership of this case, and we hope that you will resolve it by legislating so that it will not be repeated in the future. It's the least we ask of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u138	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, allow me to say that the Minister of Health, the individual political leadership of the Ministry of Health, must ensure the health of the citizens and I think that this has been done over the years by all the ministers of Health on such sensitive issues as the life of each of our fellow human beings. That's what we did this time. We have heard the scientists, who have the first word, and let me not accept your designations of oligopoly of the Ministry of Health. I would remind you again that the small Panagiotis is already being treated, so he receives the necessary treatment and the Greek state very soon, immediately gave access to this advanced medication in order to ensure the health of the young child. I think we'll do the same in the future. We realise that there are societal pressures. It was a family decision to go abroad. We hope that the whole health course of the child should be the one to be, to survive and to go well. Under no circumstances can society replace the structures and institutions of the state, which are coming to ensure the health of the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u140	We continue with the first with number 145/29-10-2019 in the first cycle of the Hercules MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Extremities regarding strengthening primary health care in Heraklion Prefecture and extending the Cardiopathy Intensive Monitoring Unit (MPC) to PAGNE". Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, the previous government had made a health plan, a plan that was subordinate to the objective of universal, equal access to our fellow citizens at a high level provided by the public health service system. If I may, I will remind you that Mr. Tsipras as Prime Minister of the previous government has cut other ribbons and not just at the Hospital of Lefkada. In fact, the planning of this government was not just new buildings, infrastructures, in any case the housing of health structures, but there was also planning to recruit staff, etc. and I have not understood your answer, which I have seen before, if you would like us to stay in the old buildings or move on to meet the needs - where they exist - and to staff. My question refers to various aspects of the Primary Care for Health and Care in Heraklion, Crete. I stand on two, three points - we could not objectively cover the whole issue - in that I consider them to be cobial to go a step further, to take a step further up the health services provided to the citizens of the region. Will you proceed to the construction of other local health units on the urban fabric of Crete in essence? We're talking about an area with two hundred and fifty thousand inhabitants. Secondly, there are two buildings in this connection. There is the building of the IKA of Agios Minas, a building emblematic or, if you want, a higher symbolism for primary care not only of the densely populated centre, but of all the citizens of Heraklion. There's also the IKa of Hersonissos. They are two buildings belonging to the Ministry of Labour, but buildings that can house health structures and had begun their concession to the Ministry of Health. What about it? There are doctors who, on the basis of the Charter of Health and the population's movements, had started their establishment, the Matalian doctorate and the practice in Bagionia, as well as a doctorate who the inhabitants themselves strengthen it. There is also the issue of the EKA - I will probably come back to my dentistry - and the issue of the Unit of the Immigration Laboratory of the University Hospital has also been launched. It is a laboratory, which also covers a large geographical area, but also a large part of the population. I am referring to the islands of the southern Aegean and essentially all over Crete, at least the east. This unit has been launched. The question is what the Ministry plans for its staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u142	Close, Mr. Igoumenides. The rest in your dentistry. Mr Minister, let me give you the floor before I give you the floor, first to make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "The King and the Revolution" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st General High School of Greece. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] And for you to know, because you are watching right now, there is a special procedure called parliamentary scrutiny. The MEP asks and the Minister responds to topical issues raised by Members, expressing various problems in the regions in which they are elected. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Igoumenides, you are well aware of the situation in Heraklion and Crete in general. You have also served as Chief of the Health Region. And, if I remember correctly, on 26-2-2019 you had tabled a similar topical question to the then Minister of Health, Mr. Blonde, concerning these three issues and the answer was: "We had no possibility in this first period of our government term at the same time to ensure the survival of the public health system, to ensure access for all citizens in an equal manner to medical care, to proceed with interventions in the resolution and moralization of the system in primary health care, to proceed with reform interventions, such as primary health care and medicine, and to make a radical redesign and an evaluation of all the structures of the country". All of this after four and a half years of almost governing by the SYRIZA government. You have also dealt with these problems as commander of the Health Region. To answer the questions you have raised, because you are asking us in a very short time to find solutions to problems of time, so I tell you that, as far as the concession of the two buildings of the former IKA to Agios Minas and the Hersonissos respectively, we are rapidly moving forward to the necessary procedures and we believe that in a very short time - you know that, as well, these buildings belong to the Ministry of Labour - the procedures, which have not been completed in four and a half years. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] With regard to the setting up of three new regional hospitals in Matala, Bagionia and Stavies, because you referred to primary health care and you referred to local units, I would like to correct you by saying that there are local health groups right now in the country and to make it clear that our priority is to meet all the needs of the population, with specific design and the elements available to us show that it is not priority for these three regional hospitals in the region, because there is coverage from the respective health centres in the regions, which is a numerical evidence of the citizens who are serving. With a specific plan - which is why I say that it is not our immediate priorities - we are illustrating the health needs of the population, and we will certainly meet these needs with the necessary structures, based on concrete and rational planning. Finally, as regards the issue of the creation of a new EKAB area in Martha, the Municipality of Vianno, no decision of the Board of Directors by the EKA has so far been taken to anticipate it. This may be the case in the context of the wider pan-European planning of the operational action of the EBRD, a project under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Igoumenides has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we did receive four and a half years ago an empty fund in relation to the 37 billion you received. Indeed, four and a half years ago, we were at the risk of the collapse of the public health system. In fact, I, too, as commander at the time of the health district, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health's political leadership, have first of all been concerned that health structures should not be closed down, that the health system should not collapse in our hands. And as for the question that took place to the political leadership of the Ministry of Health in February 2019, which you referred to, the Minister of Health said exactly and announced in his reply then precisely the launch of these solutions, which you are actually stopping today. You say that it is not a priority for the three new medical services, that you will proceed based on design, etc. The design of the three new doctors came up was no routine coverage or no cover for any of my references to people in the area I'm elected. The design was based on the analysis of the Charter of Health, resulting from the movement of populations, the population of Heraklion, to these areas. We have an increase in the population of Heraklion, but of course your Government is not moving with design and much more with design and care for the public health system. We have an increase in population in south-west Heraklion, towards the Messara region, to the Tymbakis region, to areas that, okay, the world works, can be rendered, the world can live better, easier, I don't know what. However, we have such a movement of the population and the analysis of the Charter of Health showed the needs of these doctorates. Below, for the two buildings we are discussing, for the IKA of Hersonissos, at a recent meeting with the new municipality of Hersonissos, with the new mayor, it fully agrees that it can be used as a health facility. In a few dozen meters, next door, there's an EKT station housed in a container. We have a municipality with a thousand four hundred hotel units, a population of thirty thousand, growing close to the two million in the period of increasing tourist movement, and could in this structure house the regional public health workshop, which is currently housed in some places and helps the region and the hotel units, which is currently essentially housed in some rooms of the University of Crete's Medical School. It could house a standard civil-type health centre, there is the area that is closed, and of course, as we discussed with the mayor recently - it is not a question of your question or your current answer - there are spaces that help to some extent and forms of medical tourism. For the EKRD to accept, Minister, that we obviously need to see a comprehensive plan - I know there is a debate at the moment - on rescuers in total, on health centers, on the other services of the EKRD. I understand that. I repeat the issue of the station, which you yourself said in your question, in the field there, in that it is indeed - and this has arisen from discussions with the relevant health centres and health center managers and from discussions with workers in the EAW, workers and health centres and others - that station is necessary because it covers an area of three health centres and can help in too many gaps in the area. Finally, with regard to the unit of the hemodynamic laboratory - okay, for the rest I may disagree, but are these your answers - are you planning to hire staff or the existing one to share in another service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u146	Here, Mr. Contozamanis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Igoumenides, to avoid misunderstanding, I said that our immediate priorities are not those of the three regional medical services. We're looking at all the requests. And, of course, they are all dealt with in the direction of their implementation and there must be a rational planning. I would like to submit to the Proceedings of the Health Region of March 2019, which mentions characteristics that the 7th Health Region has set as its priority the establishment of health structures in areas requiring immediate health support, for example in the Municipality of Hersonissos. That is why I have been talking about the need to prioritise and realisation of needs. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, submits for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now, as far as the unit of increased heart disease monitoring is concerned, of course, we want to ensure the quality, universal and unfettered access to health services in Crete. The University Hospital is a jewel and certainly this unit needs upgrade. In fact, we need to take further action, such as the effective operation of a heart surgery clinic, because, as you know, it is currently operating as a unit at the University Hospital of Heraklion. So we launch all the necessary actions regarding the implementation of the Cardiopathic Intensive Monitoring Unit at PAGNE and consider proposals for bed development. Of course, there is also planning to recruit the staff required. I am sure that in a short time the full operation of the Cardiopath Intensive Monitoring Unit will be a fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u148	Thank you both. We will now discuss the third with number 155/29-10-2019 a top-level question by the Member of Parliament for a First Cycle of the Communist Party of Greece and F' Vice-President of the Parliament, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of Health, on "The Function of the Gastro-Clinics Clinic at the General Hospital of Larissa". Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u149	Look, because it was previously heard by another Member, but otherwise it was brought to the issue arising from the gastrointestinal clinic, there was an answer from the Minister. But I have to say a few words. Just twenty years ago, Minister - you are well aware - the operation of the Larissa University Hospital, whose construction was completed - was ready, equipped with the medical equipment at the time - did not proceed. The then governments - which have political responsibilities - did not go ahead with the corresponding recruitment of medical, nursing and other staff in order to serve and operate. It was decided or decided, if you wish, in order to operate the University Hospital, at least in any way, to transfer some clinical and sections, respectively, from the General Hospital of Larissa. Among these sections was the gastroenterological department, together with the pathological clinic which has been returned to the General Hospital for a few years, as well as the pathology, cellology, neonatological, the early unit, the neurosurgeons that existed at the General Hospital and others. As a result of all this action in terms of the gastroenterological clinic and not only, it was the huge problems in dealing with incidents involving the General Hospital and, of course, the huge problems that were created in transporting patients to the University Hospital in order to deal with them. It had already started an effort - to say it this way - since the previous period. The Ministry of Health had approved the transfer of the gastroenterological clinic and the final approval was pending by the Ministry of Finance, which, for electoral reasons, was not signed in July. So, at least, it refers to the evidence. This, of course, has led to the issue sticking to it. The question that comes in, namely whether and when the transport is to take place, is understandable. Something has already been said by the Minister. We will insist on the following: apart from the transfer, the positions that have been taken, Mr Minister, should be transferred. They are four locations of special gastrointestinals, four specialists, plus the nursing staff, which should, of course, be returned to the General Hospital. There are currently two gastrointestinal experts and an ancillary doctor who, of course, has been fired in the past few days, because her contract has ended. That was the question, Mr President. I am waiting for the answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u150	The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. You have the floor for three minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. I think I have covered the answer to my previous question. Let me repeat once again that, with the legislative initiative in the next few days, we will immediately transfer the clinic, which will be incorporated into the existing organogram of the Larissa Prefecture Hospital. You are aware, Mr Lambroulis, that, at the level of the organogram, the transfer of the clinic, of course, also provides for the transfer of the positions that the clinic needs to operate. We will take all the necessary steps to ensure that there is the necessary and necessary staff coverage, so that the clinic is immediately operational at the Prefecture Hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u153	It remains to be seen how long, Minister, what you have said will be implemented. Perhaps, as you say, it will be within a short time. We insist with regard to the positions, that, of course, the positions with permanent staff, with doctors, specialists and, of course, with the relevant nursing staff, should be covered. And since my previous colleague - Mr President, this is not reproach, but I have to say it at the outset, I did not want to say it in my prototype - it started from the general issue of health services in Larissa, and it reached gastroenterology - from the general point of view we arrived at the expert - I will take it up another step. Beyond the gastroenterology, there are several other sections that were transferred at the time - I mean in 1999 - to the University Hospital. These departments and positions of staff - doctors, nurses, etc. - to be transferred then, will they allow? Is the pathology going to work? Because the question raised was of a general nature for the hospital, nothing was reflected in the question and, of course, it was a general answer from the Minister, who himself chose to answer. So I ask: First, are these departments transferred to the University Hospital, will they return? Do you intend to do this? Will the government, the ministry, do it, implement it? Beyond gastro-enterological. And secondly, there are a number of sections in the General Hospital, such as, for example, the ORL clinic - one I tell you - which are not working at the moment - and not now, for some years now - because doctors have left, so health services are downgraded and there are problems in the internal approach process, patient diagnostic problems access. And not to mention the huge problems of the hospital's derelict infrastructures, which are obsolete and they also need maintenance, as well as medical equipment, etc. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the functioning of the gastroenterological clinic is concerned, I repeat once again that we will be able to operate it in a very short time. With regard to the broader planning for the other clinics in the hospital and hospitals in the area, you mentioned, Mr Lambroulis, and I said it - the story with this clinic, which is how it started twenty years ago. I think that this example is a feature of the distortions and irrational design that has been in the system all these years. We are therefore trying to capture the real needs of each hospital, each area, so that we can build up modern organograms, upgrade existing services and create new services, with modern organograms that will, in fact, provide the required health services. Because you referred specifically to the HORL clinic, we also have the distribution of positions in the notice of doctors for the ORL post. However, it is not a question of calling doctors' seats, because many times these posts come out of a barren state, there is no demand and there is so much time for the procedures, where the people concerned often, when the process of filling these posts is over, have left either in other hospitals or outside Greece. So, at the same time as the distribution and announcement of the positions, we are going to redesign the crisis process and fill these positions, so that at very short notice, with the help of modern technology, we can have results and a direct coverage of the empty positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-one students and students and two educational attendants from the General School of Derveniou Corinth (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, now, because you are old enough to live - we would say - the world of university or work, that at the moment you are watching a piece, a process of parliamentary scrutiny that is the topical questions. In this process Members have the right, through a request and a specific question to the Minister, to address and discuss directly with the Minister concerned and to obtain answers on questions either in general or in particular in their area. It is usually in these proceedings that the honourable Members, the ministers and their advisers, who are at the headquarters of the government, are present in the Chamber. We continue with the tenth question under number 129/22-10-2019 in the second cycle of the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The function of the Paediatric Clinic of the General Trikala Hospital". Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. The question is indeed about the Paediatric Clinic of the General Trikala Hospital, which is facing huge problems in its operation due to a lack of children, mainly and also of nursery staff. The result of the chronic political subscribing and subscribing more generally of the hospital - and not only of this - was the decision of the administration of the General Hospital to close the paediatric clinic for twelve days a month with alternating function - mainly - with the General Hospital of Carditsa. In fact, what was actually applied is that 12 days a month the General Hospital of Trikalons cannot accept after 15.00, i.e. after the end of the morning shift hours, the urgent pediatric cases, while, if necessary, hospitalization and appreciation, etc., are sent to the Hospital of Carditsa. And, of course, the decision of the administration of the hospital may have the urgency of facing health needs, but it actually leaves a quarter of some fifty thousand inhabitants uncovered. And, of course, there are thousands of children in Trikalon Prefecture, as well as visitors, passing, etc. Therefore, Mr President, the question to the Minister is what action will be taken in order to serve the Paediatric Clinic of the General Hospital of Trikalons with permanent, full-time and full-time staff in this special capacity, as well as with nursing staff, in order to ensure the uninterrupted functioning of the clinic, by extension of the daily status and for paediatric, of course, problems, of the General Hospital of Trikalons all 24 hours in order to meet the needs of the region as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u158	The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. I am well aware of the situation in the Paediatric Clinic of the Trikala Hospital and with regard to the solutions, let me tell you the following: The smooth functioning of the whole clinical system is ensured in collaboration with the Carditsa Hospital, which is twenty-seven kilometres away from Trikala. The needs of the 50 thousand inhabitants and children in the wider region are thus fully met. This does not mean, of course, that we must not meet the needs that exist. Despite any problems in the pediatric clinic, in cooperation with the 5th Health Region, we have taken concrete action, such as the movement of a pediatrician to the pediatric clinic, the opening of an adjunct doctor's post, which, however, has been fertile. Here again, I would like to bring back the problem with the barren positions and dystocia in certain specific features of covering these positions. There is also a decision of the Board of Directors of the hospital to serve the pediatric clinic by a private doctor with proof of service. We have already proceeded with the programming of the 2020 recruitments, in terms of meeting the needs of the paediatric clinic and the wider needs of the hospital. Let me say, that we have given clear instructions to health regions to complete the crises that are under way in crisis councils in 2019, so as to meet the needs of health centres and hospitals and have completed our 2020 planning. Elementary posts in the staff of various specialists at the General Hospital of Trikala will be opened directly by eleven curator posts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u160	Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. At the pediatric clinic, Mr Minister, you know that there are two permanent doctors and one assistant, three doctors. One of the two permanents is on parental leave, paternity leave, so they serve two, together with a colleague pediatrician, who is seconded from the health centre. And, noteworthy, there is no pediatrician in the health centers of Trikala Prefecture. There's only one. And now you're saying it's a small diversion of twenty-seven-thirty, I'll tell you, twenty-five kilometers - between Trikalon-Cardits. The one who should start from the mountain villages of the county, from Kalambaka, for example, from other regions, from the district of the county? And, not least, any transfer of children or children who need immediate pediatric treatment - an emergency, that is - is done by the same means, with their cars, since the hospital is not working these days. So they are treated with semimeters, because with semimeters they were treated before. It's nothing new about the pediatric clinic. At the moment, the problem can really be exacerbated, and it can be illustrated in this way. The same logic was followed by the previous government between Trikalons and Carditsa, the two hospitals, whether this was about the gynaecological clinic or about the urology clinic. To combine it with the previous question in the logic that you said about 1999, on the occasion of the operation of the University Hospital of Larissa, even at a time when staff recruitment policies at the time were able to function in order to ensure that public health structures, public health structures, were with the drop-off, and not at all. Of course, the orientation of health expenditure was not towards satisfying people's needs through the public health system. And, of course, this has also proved to be the case in the course of the years and on the occasion of the crisis, where the problems were exacerbated in the logic of cutting state health expenditures - sub-financing and sub-sistence by extension. You said earlier that you had it in mind, you had it planned, there would be a call for positions. We ask: Tell us clearly, whether or not these positions are permanent and how many or what is known as tactics? Why did you mention the block which, incidentally, you voted for a few days ago, with an amendment that we voted against? You are actually opening up the road to elasticising employment relationships and abolishing permanent and stable work, in this regard, to health workers. With doctors you start, other staff etc. And they do not solve them with blocks - and you know that very well - in such areas and especially in the health sector, where stability is required not only in pay, in work, in working hours - of course important issues - but also in relation to the very functioning of the health system, the incidents, the connection between doctors - incidents and scientific - to say so - to deal with the incidents by the majority, by all the servants. So, in fact, we have a policy that goes on with patches and not with one, as you say, planning. We say that planning should be dictated by the needs of the population. What are the needs of the population? Not on the basis of costs and how much the State has in health expenditure - by extension in education, etc. - but based on the needs of the population. Will pediatricians be hired in health centers? Only this specialty, where the situation is even more tragic and the problems huge. Because in primary care it is not only the treatment of the incident, it is prevention, which is a huge capital. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u162	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Let me point out once again that our aim is to have permanent solutions to the problems throughout the range of health services provided to the citizens of the country. Unfortunately, we are forced, with temporary solutions, to resolve these problems in order to ensure the necessary health coverage. So I should like to respond to what you said, that we too are planning permanent solutions and permanent recruitment, and these positions, which I mentioned, concern permanent staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u164	Thank you. MP II Thessaloniki of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Varzopoulou asks for permission from a few days' absence abroad for personal reasons from 5-11-2019 to 8-11-2019. Does the House approve? The request has, of course, been made to the President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u165	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We continue with the eleventh question under number 126/22-10-2019 of the second-round question by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Athanasios Papadopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Direct blanketing in subordinated hospitals”. Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u166	Minister, in the programming statements the new government claimed to be ready to deal with issues that are open to citizens. What's your preparedness? The answers we've received so far on all the issues are that you're planning. So where? What specific issue have you given solutions to the open issues concerning subordinated hospitals in an explosive state? Obviously you would know that the residents of southern Rhodes are mobilizing for issues that concern the Centre for Health in the Gennadi area, as well as the subsistence of the Rhodes Hospital. And here you hear about other issues relating to Lefkada, Larissa, Trikala. I would tell you to see the set of questions that come from Lemnos, Chios, Samos, from too many areas, which have explosive problems at this stage. And the question we raise is: Does your design relate to the immediate solutions at this stage? From the previous government, you had found an act of Ministerial Council for ninety-five doctor posts, which would be published in 2019. From what we hear, are you going for 2020? There was an open notice for five hundred and twenty-eight seats in the emergency department. New confirmation has come that all two hundred eight seats in the Lefkapedio are ready to solve the issue. What are you doing? Are you accelerating the crises? Are you progressing the four hundred and fifty-four places for health centers? These are issues which require answers, which you must give today. Because generally saying "we were ready" and not proving your claim, I think it takes you completely apart from giving proof to the citizens how you serve the needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u167	The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Papadopoulos, you referred to an explosive state in the health system. So you admit that this explosive situation you delivered us, because it cannot have collapsed the health system within three months. And you come and tell us what we're doing these months! We really do everything in order to keep the system up and stabilise it, because unfortunately things are far worse than the situation we expect to receive. As far as doctors' crises are concerned, we will of course speed up the crises, and we will also proceed with the ninety-five positions. We have just repeatedly stressed that we are trying to improve the process a little, so that these crises will be quickly closed and that they will not be delayed more than one and a half years, as has been done so far. The breakdown of these posts has been completed. In 2019, the notice will take place. With regard to the remaining positions for the emergency departments, I think that these positions are also in the process of integration. There are some issues, and you know them too. In no case has this crisis been suspended and progressed smoothly and normally, of course, within the scope of the law, so as to ensure that the procedure is in place. With regard to the three thousand new positions in the ESS, which you say you announced as government, I imagine there was no credit, only announcements. We have a concrete plan for the next four years to cover the critical areas of the system, starting with the nursing sector and moving to the medical sector. Because we know there is a large wave of fleeing the health system and why the health system has completed its pension years. A large portion of doctors have completed thirty-five years of service in the system and new blood is required. And that is what we want to do, put new doctors into the system, give the message to young doctors who leave the country that they will be able to stay in the country and work in the National Health System and have a career in the National Health System. And it's one more thing I want to say. Your question refers to supplementary doctors, paid by the NSRF programmes, which are Public Investment Programmes. Because, at the end of November, the term of office of about three hundred ancillary staff being paid out of this programme, we will take all the necessary steps to keep this staff as an ancillary staff and the remaining ancillary staff in the National Health System.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u169	Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u170	The paediatric clinic should be able to keep up to date during the period of increased need. Next month, in December, the needs at the pediatric clinic will be explosive, because thousands of children are coming to Trikala to see some events and these needs need to be addressed. The doctor with the block, dear Minister, doesn't take part in the morning visit, doesn't know the needs of the clinic, can't meet the needs. The question comes after what you are doing for a design that the doctors knew about. For example, they knew that in the fourteen places given to the Trikala Hospital and the ninety-five total that took an act of Ministerial Council, which also means a budget, two pediatricians were included and the design was a pediatrician for both the Farcadon Health Center and the Health Center. On the basis of your planning, therefore, there is no solution for the whole of the next period, and this plan ignores the fact that the previous government had covered two thousand three thousand permanent posts in the National Health System, three thousand three hundred subsidiary posts for doctors and at the same time included for all hospitals a change of organograms that corresponds to the real circumstances and not a merger warning, why do we take it to some extent: a merger between the Trikala Hospital and the Carditsa Hospital? Do you have any such designs? Creating needs between clinics in such a way? So the question is what messages the doctors, who are now in hospitals in Germany, Sweden, England and other countries, are getting. Do they get the message that they have a future in their homeland? The new doctors who come out now get the message that immediately the National Health System publishes places to be interested in coming? Are they getting the message that there is a planning that we have done for ten thousand overall nursing, medical and other personnel up to 2022? Is there a corresponding design yours? Do they get the message in the 2020 budget that you are going to have expenditure to meet needs and will exceed 5.2% of current GDP? Are we giving these answers to the local communities that rise? It is not that we do not recognise that there have been problems, but when doctors and other sanitaries see that there is a phase in which the health system does not know the future, then interest is lost. So you must give answers if you are going to have a general privatisation of the National Health System or if you will specifically encourage the National Health System to fulfil its role of quality and efficiency of services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u171	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Papadopoulos, let me say that you sent these doctors abroad and we are now trying to bring them back to the country...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u173	Calm down now! Don't say what we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u174	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u175	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u176	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u177	...to send the message of the new doctors returning to the system. We could also fly fireworks and promise thousands of recruitments, as you did, without any necessary funding, without planning, but the issue is that we should be able to implement these notices. You are well aware that since 2013 there have been five hundred and thirty-two seats in the National Health System. So it doesn't only make sense to create impressions and win impressions, talking about recruitment numbers. There must be seriousness in planning and rational planning, so that we can capture the real needs, meet these needs and cover them in a short time. And you will see in how short the ninety-five positions, with the new procedure that we will introduce, will be covered in the health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u178	We now move on to the fourth with number 147/29-10-2019 in the second cycle of the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The abolition of the self-government of the Centre for the Treatment of Degraded Persons and the design in the field of dealing with dependency". Should I now hope to stay on this subject alone? Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u179	No, I'm only staying on this subject. I think that my colleagues have responded well. Minister, a legislative act that abolished a crucial element of the identity of the CEDEFOP has emerged for months now. For the past thirty-six years, the CEFD has been operating with a model of administration that was elected an unpaid board of directors by the general assembly of the organisation, in which its employees, the people who have completed the healing programs and have also been reintegrating their families. It is a completely democratic model, without any shadow of problematic management and, anyway, of breaking public money. So you come in quite unexpectedly, without any debate, without any consultation, without any pretext and, unfortunately, without any knowledge. Because if either you or the Minister were sensitive to going to a structure to talk to people, you would understand that this function and this way of administration were an element of the healing identity of this body, it was a model of participatory, codecision and the healing people, it was a model based on the culture of the healing communities, which have the user to activate its powers, stand up, feel that he has a reason and role, that he is involved and therefore able to re-evaluate. So there is one question: why did this intervention take place? It is insulting, in my view, for the multiple administrations of this institution, which even involved people of high public prestige, such as Gerasius Notaras, a great fighter against the dictatorship, such as Nikos Paradise, former Minister of Justice, such as Nikos Koudouros, director, people who were unscrupulously, unscrupulously involved in these administrative councils, to leave a suggestion that he was probably not properly controlled by the public, which is subsidising this body, and therefore there should be a more suffocating political control. There has always been systematic monitoring, both by sworn accountants and by the General Accounting Office of the State. There has never been the slightest indication of problematic management! If he wanted to control the state and the Ministry, he could place in today's administration an accountant and a lawyer and a lawyer, to have an accurate picture and no doubt. I think, therefore, that it is insulting to people who have been running over the years, but it is also disgraceful for the work of human resources, the healers and also for the effort - because that is how they have taken it - that the addicts and their families have taken away from this vicious circle of use. So I think the administration has been exemplary so far. There was not the slightest grip on this type of intervention. Or we are dealing with an extreme logic of absolute government, party and clientele - I would say - control which is compatible with movements made by the government as a whole over the period, or we are dealing with a project that we do not know, which has never been presented, which has never been discussed, which was not mentioned in the New Democracy programme. Is it a plan to reduce public decommissioning services, to change the role of the JET?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Xanthi, the rest of you will tell your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u181	I think this is very critical, to know both the reasons for this intervention and the design in the area of dependency and what the role of the CEC in it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u182	The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, the legislative act itself explicitly mentions the needs of good management and administration of the JET. The CRL manages public money and there must be a mechanism, not only of control, but also of harmonisation of the use of funds for actions strictly adapted to the national strategy. The legislative act aims at ensuring the public character of the JETD and its functioning in full compliance with international standards. Legislative intervention, as has been introduced, does not remove individual management bodies of the JET. It shall amend only the manner in which the Board of Directors is designated. It does not deny the normal functioning of the management of the management and, above all, does not lead to the abolition of the self-management of the CDE as regards the issues of the therapeutic procedures and the self-government of the therapeutic units. So, as far as your point of order is concerned, which you are talking about reactions to this government decision, let me tell you that these reactions are due to the fact that some have invaluable information, whether they are misinformed or because rumours of course do not actually respond. It was therefore aimed at our recent intervention, mainly in the harmonisation of the management model of the CDEE with other recognised service providers, such as the OKANA, for the sole purpose of implementing the audit of financial management. Let me remind you that the state's contribution in previous years to the CEFD approached the EUR 20 million annually. In fact, it is surprising that the CECH abroad appears as a non-governmental organisation, despite the fact that it is funded in the country by the state. The legislative intervention chosen therefore serves - to recapitulate - two objectives: firstly the irreversible funding, creating an effective administrative mechanism for controlling the financial management and the way in which the funds are used and, at the same time, ensuring and guaranteeing the self-management of the internal residence therapeutic communities, by strengthening the powers of intervention of the general assembly, on the issues of therapeutic choices and the functioning of the therapeutic units, thereby maintaining the self-management features of the CTE's system, as has been established so far. With regard to our overall strategy for JETHA and treatment of dependencies, the Ministry of Health is working on a comprehensive design on the subject in order to make there a substantial upgrade of the services provided and better coordination between the providers provided by the services to users. The role of the JRC remains important in this design and is a key pillar of our policy in the field of dependency.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u185	Minister, here we have a model that works efficiently, with a great social resonance for thirty-six years. And you come and tell us - and I think it is very declaring what you said - that the justification for the act of legislation was that there was essentially a question of non- sound administration and of not controlling the financial management of this body. That's what you're telling us. So, all the previous ministers, all the previous political leaders, were contributors to the operation of a body that was actually sponsored by the state and responsible and must be indicted above because they did not do the same? This justification is problematic, and that is why the climate of insecurity and suspicion is being strengthened, of course, also among the people who work and those who receive services. If you're going these days, there's a turbulence, there's a crisis in the C.E.T.A., Minister. The world takes the floor, people roar when they speak at the conventions. We've been to three public structures right now, and we've talked to the staff. There is enormous disorganization and insecurity for the future. Because no one can understand what suddenly came to you to create an unpaid administration. Look, we have an unpaid administration today, and you are the one who hired the administration, you have the President to be full-time and full-time and the Vice-President of limited employment. And from what I am told by the names I see leaking these days, I think there is also a question as to the criteria on which the people who have always been involved in this administration have always been chosen. They were people of unknown prestige, renowned relevance to the subject and mainly devoted to this idea of supporting, upgrading and highlighting the work and offering of this body. This is now being abolished and there is an absolute governmental control. This, Minister, has side effects. Do not think it will end the matter with the appointment FEK. Do not have this illusion, you will find it in front of you and above all you will find in front of you the world of VEH, those who have accepted his services, the families of the people who have been serving these years. He has a huge social recognition of this body. The normality you think you are imposing on this act of legislation will produce huge deregulation and disorganisation. You don't want to understand that. I think that the crisis will not be extinguished, and I really think it is a question of democratic order and sensitivity to return to the pretext. We made an intervention with other parties in the progressive, say, spectrum of counterpopulation. We met with the Minister, we asked for an evacuation. There was an intervention to seek an interim solution, a compromise solution. First of all, it was positive that, although it was only five that the ministerial decision should come out, it agreed to discuss it. A proposal was presented, however, by the Minister who did not actually change the logic of the MDG. In other words, he had the eight members appointed by the Ministry - the President and the Vice-President, and indeed the President with a double-vote - all three members appointed by the General Assembly of the Centre. Basically, the model was completely abolished so far. So I think it was a pretext. It was not sincerely the willingness to reduce the crisis, and from what I understand you are coming back to your initial choice to define the entire administration you, the Ministry of Health. I think this is problematic, it will have a huge impact on the psychology of people working in the services provided. It puts a critical link, a public body dealing with adventure, and even at a time when it is called upon to make synergies with the health system, to cooperate with the OKANA. Today, Minister, and you know it very well, a new public physical detoxification structure is inaugurated in Yannina, the second in the country after Thessaloniki. This is the work of the previous government of SYRIZA, which took a building, the "Hatzikosta" Multipowered Center, found resources, hired personnel and now we have a public physical detoxification unit for opioids and alcohol that is done with synergy between the ESS, the CHETHA and the OKANA. It is crucial that the role of the CECH can obviously contribute to a pluralist multi-purpose framework that must always exist in the field of dependencies, having its own special role with its culture, with its know-how, with its historic path. You abolish this by means of an act of legislation which is arbitrary and undemocratic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u186	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a corresponding year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u187	I will be very brief, Mr President. Thank you very much. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, let me repeat once again that the CEFTE manages public money, and the Greek citizen must know that his money is going to be a place for the Ministry of Health to play his regulatory role. We have stressed from the outset, since the adoption of the act of legislative content, that the purpose of the CEEC remains unchanged. We continue to ensure and guarantee the self-management of the healing communities and strengthen the responsibilities of the general assembly, thereby preserving the characteristics of the self-management of the CDE. It seems to me that it is annoying that a government, such as our own with a project, comes to intervene effectively and effectively in the area of dependencies that you think you have ideological hegemony. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, five students' team members from the National Library Committee. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We have completed the questions addressed to the Minister for Health. Now we begin with the questions addressed to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ilhan Ahmet's question will be preceded by a conference of his party, after consultation with Mrs Readostopoulou, whose question followed. So we move on to the ninth with number 158/29-10-2019 in the second question of the second question of the MP Rodopi of the Change Movement Mr Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Building a second bridge on the border passage of the Gardens - Higher Greek-Turkish border". Here, Mr. Ahmet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, thank you and my colleague for her tolerance. Minister, at a time when, as you know, Thrace is on the news of the flows of irregular immigrants from the Greek-Turkish border, I think it is an opportunity today to talk a little bit about the legal movement of tourism of goods from the Customs Garden of Evros, which, as you know, presents enormous infrastructure problems and needs immediate modernisation. Thrace, as you know, has seven gates of entry, five to Bulgaria and two to Turkey, and should be the country's most outward region, since it is a point of connection both to the European and Balkan North as to Turkey and the East. Of course, Thrace is the gateway of entry and it is Europe, so the essential quality upgrade of all the land points of entry and exit to Evros can also have a key role in dealing with smuggling and not just in blossoming trade. The existing garden bridge is a bridge very narrow and old that in no way can serve international transport and there are delays of up to eight and ten hours to our fellow citizens and tourists who visit the area. The construction of the bridge was launched in 2004 with Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis then. This transnational agreement was ratified by the Greek Parliament in 2007 and by the Turkish Parliament in 2012, and, as you know, a joint committee meeting took place in 2013. On the contrary, in the government of SYRIZA, a decision was made in 2017, Deputy Minister and approved funding from national funds, but we do not yet know when the tender or study will begin, so that this project can finally be completed. After all, along with the construction of the bridge that is of many importance to our Thrace, it is also the issue of customs. Customs are in an unfavourable situation, there is no room and we cannot respond. Meanwhile, the neighboring country, Turkey, did a state-of-the-art customs office. The conditions are bad. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, Minister, I would like in your answer to see if, as a crossing point, it can contribute to the tourist and economic upgrading of Evros, but also for the whole of Thrace. In other words, the customs and bridge upgrades concern not only Thrace, but I think the entire region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. We, as the Change Movement, believe that the new bridge and the new modern customs station are a development project, and we believe that this must be implemented after thirteen, fourteen years and give us clear timetables. And tell us if there is a problem, which is the problem, where it focuses on and why there is this delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u190	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, you will allow me to begin by saying a few words about the work, because of course you know it personally, but I think for all those who are watching us, it is good to make a very small historical regression, which you have also made in your question. The Egnatia Street, in particular, the Pylia - Kypi section ends at the Greek Turkish border. From the border point of view, we have the Istanbul-Kinali section, which is an integrated motorway. The two sides are interconnected in substance through a road of almost one kilometre of four hundred meters and which actually unites the Gardens with the Hyps. You are quite right that the existing connection is archaic, since we are talking about a road that actually has a lane of traffic and certainly needs to be upgraded, because all these problems are created that you mentioned in your protology. There is therefore the agreement that has been made since 2004 and 2006. Validated by the Turkish Parliament in 2011. The first phase of implementation began in 2013. But what happened then? Four meetings of the EMCDDA, namely the Joint Committee set up and the last meeting in November, were decided to build a bridge along with the old bridge, with an overall length of eight hundred and fifty metres. Three hundred and sixty meters will be on the Greek side and the Greek territory and four hundred ninety will be on Turkey's side. What's the common agreement? It provides for the study and the responsibility for the tendering of the project to be carried out on the Greek side. And then there will be a joint project manager, as technicians say, to run the project. The funding is available, you are right, from the PPC is EUR 2.5 million and the Greek part will be built under the responsibility of the "Engnatia WEBSITE S.A.". However, the joint meeting scheduled for April 2019 was never held and I can tell you that this was probably because of both the elections in Greece and the developments in the neighbour. The point is that this fifth meeting is necessary and there must be transnational approval, that is to say, both countries must approve the pre-studies drawn up by the "EGENATIC LEVEL S.A.". Finally, I note that the approval of environmental studies has been blocked by the relevant Minister for the Environment of SYRIZA in 2016. That is why we have had a further delay. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So because of these delays that have taken place, we are no longer talking about an auction in 2020. It would be impossible for me to come here and tell you that we are going to auction the project in 2020. We are going for 2021, and as you can see, this is also about the fact that we are talking about an transnational agreement. We are talking about an agreement which is entirely related to the wider relations that exist in the region. This Joint Committee, when it is to meet, must meet, because we must move very quickly, as you quite rightly say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and two educational sessions from the General Lyceum of Derveni Corinthias (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, you must know that you are following the end of some parliamentary procedure, where Members directly ask the Minister on specific matters and control them. We are towards the end and you see that of the twenty-four Members of Parliament, we are currently in the last three questions. Here, Mr. Ilhan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u193	Minister, you referred to what I understood from your answer to the fact that there are two basic conditions to ensure that this work will be auctioned in 2021. One of these is that the fifth meeting between the two countries must be held in order to resolve some issues. That's right and right. Secondly, there must be the same structures and the international context as you have developed it. In any case, our country must - and this is what it is doing - develops economic diplomacy between states. I think that the political will needs to be sought and found in order to speed up this fifth meeting, because it is a universal demand for all residents and not just the Greek region, but as we read and learn from the region of the Alps and Edirne and the other inhabitants. There are thousands of people who want to travel to Greece, want to come and visit Alexandroupolis, Komotini, Xanthi, Thessaloniki - as tourists, of course - and we must legally - and we must push through the parliaments to make this development project, which I think will also be a project that was envisioned by the then Prime Minister Recep Tayyyip Erdogan and I do not think there will be any obstacle to it being implemented. Of course, you said about SYRIZA. Indeed, it may have been blocked in 2016 by the Ministry of the Environment, but in 2018 by decision of the Deputy Minister of Economy, the funding was approved. That is extremely positive. In other words, there should be no risk that this money will also be lost through public investment, of course, if it relates to European funds. So at least we would like to make a commitment from you, a political statement that there is all the goodwill - which I believe is the way I have heard from you - to complete these procedures, of course, in cooperation with the relevant ministries, such as the Foreign Affairs, the Defence, etc. and through economic diplomacy to solve this problem that will give the micro-enterprise, the shopkeeper, the everyday man who expects this development project to be done to breathe in this area as well. Also, Minister, you should also see the modernisation of the customs office along with the bridge. In other words, any study drawn up should also be combined with customs. We cannot have the bridge that we are going to build and have this customs office, the Greek one, on our side and we have this mess in Europe. We must also have a modern big customs office, which has all the machinery and controls all the security systems.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u194	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I think it is reasonably understood that we are talking here about transnational relations and agreements, and these are influenced by developments within these countries. You referred to the Karamanlis-Erdogan agreement. You will allow me to say that at that time relations were perhaps a little more calm. That's where we want to take the relationship with the neighbor. This is the will of the government, and I think it is in both countries' interest to go ahead with this work. From our point of view, I can tell you that we are committed to pressure as much as we can to continue this work. I have already spoken with the new administration of the "GENNATIO BODOS S.A." and it is in the immediate priorities to overcome their own difficulties. We will proceed with the renewal of the members of the country to the ICES, given that we have a change of the Secretary-General of Infrastructure, as well as the administration of the "ENGINATIO BODY S.A.". Now, as far as the facilities are concerned, this is not only the responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, as you can see. You're absolutely right. I'd say it's a disgrace to our country. It's aged 50-year-old facility. Modern requirements for cross-border stations are very widespread, especially when it comes to the Schengen Convention. That is why we are making an overview of an earlier study carried out by the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, so that we can demand the construction and operating costs and the costs of expropriations. I would also make a suggestion to you here to discuss it and to see whether we can put private investors on the market so that we can use customs commercially, as is done in Turkey. Here, of course, as you can see, we have the great and major problem of the Greek political system, the functions of many ministries, such as the Foreign Affairs, the Protection of Citizens, the Rural Development, the Infrastructure. However, I have the impression that this customs office does not honour Greece, which - I think - all the political groups will agree. So I repeat the Greek will to run this project. I told you about a specific timetable in 2021. You're right that the previous SYRIZA government did find the funds. But, unfortunately, I did not reproach the government, as environmental studies are slow. I just said that we have a problem with the ICM, with the environmental impact study, which we will try to overcome as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u196	We are therefore returning to the seventh question, number 148/29-10-2019, on the second question of the Achaia Parliamentary Party of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasias (Syria) Readingstopoulou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Agreement of the train in Patras from the Rios station to Agios Dionysios (underground traveling about half a mile long)". Here you go, Mrs. Ignastopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, another major infrastructure project concerning the substituting of the train in Patra seems to be undermining, if not canceled by the current government. As we all know, this is a development project with great social influence, the study and approval of which was launched by the previous leadership of the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure and aimed to improve the travel and daily life of the regions from the Rios station to Agios Dionysius, but also to an even more important or equally important thing, which was not to divide the city into two with very bad consequences for the urban fabric, but also for the social functioning of a city. The basement would cover six and a half miles. The plan of the ‘ERGOSE’ is thus provided for in the plan. It would therefore serve to cross the train, the underground route, without any open breach and by creating a linear park on the surface. In addition, a satisfactory cost approach has been achieved, which will be finalised by the tendering of the project by the company’s board of directors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But your statements lately, Minister, on a pharanonic project have created a great deal of concern and response to both the inhabitants and the institutions and the institutions of the city. Since, therefore, we consider that ensuring uninterrupted movements, improving the quality of life of the citizens is an obligation for the state, because they have already guaranteed 130 million euros from the NSRF, as the wider modernisation work of the Athens-Patra railway line and the linking of the railway line with the port of Patras is included in the operational programme "Transport Infrastructure, Environment and Sustainable Development" 2014-2020 with a period of 2023, because studies are ready tour to Agios Dionysios, while preliminary studies have been carried out to build the subordination from Agios Andreas to the new port, I would like to ask you how you will proceed with the underground engraving of the train in Patras from the station of Rio to the Dionysiosios, so that the project can be carried out uninterrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u198	Here, Mr Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u199	Dear Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, I am sorry to say this, but you too are trying to create a virtual reality in Patras' work. To cancel something, as you say in your question, there must first be something, there must be one. And I'll explain the absolute policy - how can I be polite? - fraud, which has been done for four and a half years. So let's start over. You've created an incredible virtual picture. It's not six and a half miles to which you refer, but nine and a half. And the 130 million you say is not enough for one. Do you know why? Because the cost of a mile to build a subway is over 120 million miles per kilometre. So at nine and a half miles, if you multiply them, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, for 120 million, we are talking about a project that will exceed 1 billion. So this cost is a cost which the whole of the technical world and the European Commission will tell you that it is extremely unlikely to be approved. And I come back and say: for four years, unfortunately, you have made the feeling that you have been studying this work. And I will now prove to you by documenting how out-of- reality it is you are claiming, because you on SYRIZA had not done any study, there was no maturity, and most importantly, there was no funding and there was no provision for the suburban if suburbanisation was done, as you are presenting it. The size of bilingualism has to do that, and in any event, the 'ERGOSE', when SYRIZA was a government - and you will allow me to submit it in the Minutes - submitted a political document on April 23, 2019, before the change of government, which said that the rail link is still in a study stage. So what does that mean? There was no study. It also said that the preparation of tenders with the "study-building" system is still under way, with planning - it says - a publication at the end of the first half of 2019, which never happened. And it goes on to say that a request for funding will be submitted as soon as the technical description of the project is finalised - which means that there is no - and that a contract for the preparation of technical studies is scheduled. I am presenting this document in the Minutes, because the administration itself disproves what is said in SYRIZA. [[At this point, the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Ah. Karamanlis submits the abovementioned document for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Stenography and Practice Directorate.]] Now I'm going to answer my dentistry about what we're going to do. And we'll tell you that we're in favor of the project and we're talking about partial subjugation of the project. I will prove to you in my denture that there was a 2014 study in the 'ERGOSE', which SYRIZA once again - because you never believed in the continuation of the public and then the state - in fact ignored and announced a project that is really impossible to finance from European resources. So let us come back from the world of fantasy in the world of right speech and say things that are happening. I will present to you in my denture what, in the view of all the techniques, is a solution which can be done by partial substitutation, with cut & cover, by sinking and which will work in conjunction with the suburban that is currently working.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u200	Good, in your dentistry, Minister. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u201	Minister, I do not want to go into the controversy about political fraud or not, because I too could use various examples, such as the lack of study for the Venizelos station in Thessaloniki and the need to transfer the ancients. But let's leave that. Please send the report 'ERGOSE'. I want to inform you about what happened these years. There was a broad consultation, mobilisation of residents, residents of Patras and the wider area of Patras, the municipality of Patras for subordination of the train throughout this route through Patras, from Rio to the new port. The Minister for Infrastructure then, the administration of the "ERGOSE" came to Patras several times. Because you are giving me an exhibition of "ERGOSE", but you are not referring to the "ERGOSE" press release on June 7, 2019, which took place after consultation and after April, a debate took place in the Municipality of Patras. I read to you, Minister - and this is the 'ERGOSE' - and it is not the fraudsters of SYRIZA - the following: 'The design is now provided for underground engraving from the Rio station to Agios Dionysios and then continue the underground work to St. Andreas, which is planned for the preparation of a study. For this reason, "ERGOSE", in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and OSE, promotes the project “Study of the line from Rio to Dionysius” and the final studies for the section of Agios Dionysius - Agios Andreas” have been included. In order not to read it all, therefore, it says that after the underground crossing of the Kanellopoulou road construction will take place on the basis of the existing approved final study of the "ERGOSE" etc. It also says that a satisfactory cost approach has been reached, which will be finalised by the approval of a tender. This is the 'ERGOSE', it's not the Minister. You tell me, Minister, that it will cost 1.5 billion euros. You also said that in an interview with Patras. Where is this study based? This study, Minister, is based on a study done by one of your own - yours - by Mr Spiliopoulos in 2014 and that is not the case. Do you have any technical budgets for me? And I'm telling you that the West Greece TEU does not cost more than EUR 30 million per kilometre, reaching EUR 300 million. But let's just leave that. I'm neither an engineer nor a technician. Politics I express an opinion. You know very well that in Sepulia there was an aerial crossing of the train. After citizens' movement, the train proceeds to an underground route of three kilometres, with a much more complex line, four lines, if I'm not mistaken. In Ayios it occurs, there are and there are three kilometers. In the Panagopula, we have a big tunnel. Now, in Patras, there have been infinite consultations and which, Minister, for four years, the SYRIZA Government and the "ERGOSE" have done with enormous pressure from citizens and institutions. So I, as a representative of this city, ask one thing: What do you intend to do from now on? The city of Patras wants underground driving. First of all, you have not invited us either the Members of the Achaias and SYRIZA or the institutions. If there were all that you're saying, you wouldn't make statements about pharaonic work, etc. You'd invite us to hold a meeting. I have been attending too many such meetings with 'ERGOSE'. That is why, before we get to the designations of fraud and of the right speech - and let him have the right word outside, because we would have to say too much, Minister, and I would not like to do so at this stage - what I am interested in is whether the underground route is going to take place and what you will do from now on. We want a meeting at the Ministry and with the "ERGOSE", to say the information we had before the "ERGOSE", unless the "ERGOSE" changed or fooled us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u202	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much. I see the political audacity has no limits. You're talking about meetings. Here your ministers did not come to answer timely questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u204	That's what I'm telling you about. I wasn't a Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u205	I won't have a dialogue with you. I listened very carefully and did not interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u206	It's just, let's generally drop the tons.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u207	Four and a half years, what did you do? Zero to the "blue"! And you laughed at the people of Achaia and served the seaweed for silk ribbons! But you did that in the first half of 2015, when you would rip the memorandum. That is why we will come back to the right speech and speak to you with information. You'll spend - it says - 30 million miles per kilometer. Take all the European Union's statistics on how much full subordination costs in a city with the urban character of Patras. It's 100 million. All the reports say that. That number we didn't get out of our head. I've filed a document for you. You guys talk to me about meetings. I've submitted to you a document that denies...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u208	They said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u209	I don't care what they were saying. The documents are the ones left, not the statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u210	I have a document, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u211	So look at the document on your own days, which disguises all that you have said. I'm not saying that. Anyway, here we speak the same language. So, four and a half years, we went back. Why did we do it back? Because we weren't talking about six and a half miles, you were talking about one and a half miles of basement. It's problematic, inapplicable. See what the cost is in Thessaloniki. See what the cost is in Athens. See what the cost of building a metro is. Don't tell me about the Sepolis, because it has nothing to do with each other. Don't compare things that technically are completely different. That is what the Prime Minister said when he went down to Patras and I was surprised, because he is an engineer himself. First, they need money, money. I too would like to do, like many in this Chamber, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, a great deal of work. However, the question is where we are now and whether we have the financial resources. You who have been against Europe for years must understand how the European Union works.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u212	Don't challenge me, Mr. Karamanlis! Mr President, I would like the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u213	The European Union is operating as follows. To give you money to fund a project, I have to get their approval. You didn't even do that. Have you ever called JASPERS to show them? You didn't have a study. It was just air words, "we will make a subway in Patras nine and a half kilometres". Where are the studies? Where's the cost? Where's the timeline? Zero to clay! Secondly, where were your forecasts on how to connect them to the suburban? You never said that. Would we build a normal measure in a town like Patras? Would this town become a huge construction site for a project for which we would never have any funding and would stick and stop? So what do we say? Because we are not against the project, as falsely called by many officers of the Officership. We say that we are judging the Zeku study, which was in place since December 2013 and which was accepted by the institutions at the time. And he said: First, the railroad and suburban would become a valuable element of life for the development of the city. Secondly, what does this study say and wants to be updated? I'm talking to you with evidence. I am not speaking to you with the consultations you have been holding on the left for four and a half years and you do not end up anywhere. There was a study in 2014, which you flew into the cart of the unusables and said of earthly crossings with a double line from Rio to St. Andreas, where the main station takes place, with two or three sinks - which is the grounding - in Bozaitika, Panahia and Agios. Thirdly, from Agios Dionysius to Agios Andreas there will also be a submerge there and there a partial subjugation in the form of cut & cover to open the city to the sea. And so, with a guaranteed budget of 200 million, the train would reach the port. What have you guys done? You threw it in the candlestick and started talking about pharaonic works. I am sorry to say this, but we need to understand what projects can be implemented and what they are not. Because we may be fighting here for fifty years for various projects, but they will never be done. Why won't they be? Because we need to guarantee funding. This study can therefore, in the view of the Government, provide financing by the European Commission and JASPERS. You spoke of a nine and a half-mile pharaonic project, which you do not even know the cost. Nobody knows. One billion may be a little bit. And you know what the most basic thing is? You didn't tell us when as a government for four and a half years, where would you get the money? Because from the cut-off PDP due to the economic crisis, you could not finance it. So we need to be able to justify the projects we are announcing, to be able to justify them in the European Commission, to have done the feasibility and sustainability studies, so-called cost-benefit analysis. That is Europe's regulation. What can we do? We don't give you money - Europe tells you right - because you're handsome, but we're giving it to you because you're giving us a shot of why you're doing this, what will be the impact of this project on local GDP, on the economy? Does it have to be done? Shouldn't it be? Is there a cheaper solution? You've done none of this for four and a half years. And you come now - not you, I'm not talking personally, but the Census Antipolis - to justify them as in Patras - Tower that you found it ready and broke it down for a specific businessman and a specific contractor - publisher and swing the finger on those who are trying to pull the snake out of the hole. I suggest something. I am now at your disposal sincerely whenever you want to come to the Ministry and with the new administration of "ERGOSE" to sit down and see the project. We can disagree, we can agree. But I think that major infrastructure projects of national importance - as is the case with how the train will reach the port - must have the minimum of consensus and understanding. To have this minimum, however, Mrs Anagnostopoulos, we need a condition, to speak the language of the truth. And not to say things that don't apply, like that for four and a half years you were about to start. Because you were not ready to launch it, because there is not a single study. And the study that existed was completely different. Therefore, if the government, the Minister and the projects are changed every time, they will not reach the port in twenty years. Let us not politicise issues for which there is no reason for political controversy. That's the reality. The works will be filed. I am at your disposal to have as much dialogue as you like.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u214	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u215	Wait a minute, if you want, and the Minister will answer again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u216	Just a minute, Mr President. Because you said a lot, while the Minister comes here to discuss and check on a few things, I will not say now that we have been consulted. There is a report of the European Bank's JASPERS, Minister, and you should have it in mind and I will be tabling it. You come here and say with the greatest comfort things uninvited. You, therefore, disprove the 'ERGOSE' because I have told you that it is not the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure, it is the 'ERGOSE' that I read to you. You disguise her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u217	I've filed a document for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u218	You tell me in the best way, in the most comfortable way, that we have political courage. But I have two facts to tell you about my region. Do you know how long we haven't had a Corinth - Patras road axis? Do you know how many years there wasn't Ionia Street, which you say for four and a half years we haven't done anything? Yes, we were a government that consulted residents. Yes, because the subordination of the train across the length of the port, from Rio, was a citizens' claim and this government heard them. And don't use me a study by Mr. Spiliopoulos of 2014. And for Patras tower we'll talk next time. Well, then, I told you: Do you want to call both the institutions and us and be the 'ERGOSE', to see what can be done? Don't start telling me things unresponsively, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u219	All right, we're done in this regard. Mr Minister, you will answer for as long as you like. You're a mechanic, aren't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u220	No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u221	And as a non-mechanic, do you think it can be done - I don't speak politically now - cut & cover from St. Dionysius to St. Andreas? I do not say it politically, I say it completely technically.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u222	Yeah, there's a chance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u223	I'd like to know the engineer who proposed that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u224	Like saying right now that we are going to do a subway in the third city of Greece I think it has nothing to do with reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u225	We weren't talking about subway.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u226	No, it's a lot of people. So I say: what is the technical objective? Is it to get the train to the port - isn't that the logic? - For a lot of reasons. So what do we say? How will the train get there? There are many technical solutions. The question is which of these technical solutions are solutions that can be financed. I wish we could finance this project from national resources. You know very well that these resources do not exist. You have also nursed a Minister and you knew and we all know what the country's economic situation is today. We therefore need to find the best technical and economic solution. And here I think politicians should once say things by their name. And if we say about subordination of nine and a half kilometres, which will cost a great amount that IB will never approve, IB - I have already spoken with IB - neither the JASPERS, while this is a great chance of financing it, then it is good to sit down and see how the train gets to the port. I wish we could say we'd make nine and a half miles underground railroad. We don't have the money to finance it. Techniques are a very difficult task. In my opinion - if you wish - not you, but the previous government, for four and a half years you have not done one premeditated thing. You didn't even study, so you went and did the design system. Read the document 'ERGOSE' carefully, which really disproves the chief minister who then said these things. That's the reality. There was just a consultation, but it is beyond any logic, because simply saying that we are going to do a job, while we do not have the money to do it, it makes no sense to say it. You, he says, don't like the previous study. Why don't you like the previous study? In 2013 there was a study, a solution. Let's sit down and talk about her. I don't understand why you should in Patras - Tower to change the design because you didn't like it, Venizelos to change the design because you didn't like it, the issue of subjugation in Patras to change the design again. If every four years we change the design, we'll never do projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u227	Minister, if we hadn't changed the design of Corinth - Patras, it would never have happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u228	Well, there's a limit to what we're saying. Be careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u229	Good. There is also a time limit in the parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u230	There's a limit. I agree, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much. I particularly apologise to Mr Economou who has been in the Chamber for too long and has been waiting for cartoon, but of course also to Mrs Bakadima. We will now discuss the sixth question under number 153/29-10-2019 of the second Piraeus II cycle of Meratus, Mr. Fotinis Bakadammas, to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Study of the student at the pan-educational rally on October 24th, current". The timely question by my colleague will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou. Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for being here today to answer the timely question, since we all know that parliamentary control is a very important part of our work. Now, on October 24th, an educational rally took place in the center of Athens. I would like to remind you that it was an initiative of 17 student clubs, and they took part about a thousand five hundred students, young children of the same age - underneath the policemen who were facing them, children who probably had many problems and common pursuits with the policemen who had been called to guard and defend order. Minister, you know better than me - because you were the Chief of Greek Police - that too many children choose the MATs coming out of school, mostly - I imagine - not only because they like it, but perhaps because it is also a minimum allowance left to receive. While heading toward the end of the rally and while we had little tension and scale incidents, we saw an extensive use of chemicals and tear gas, as well as the platoon of the platoon, but we also saw the dropping of impact - glow grenades. From the fragments a young child, a first-year student, nineteen, who had done nothing wrong, was injured. He had actually come down to defend what he thought would be agitated by the laws that would pass through the Ministry of Education. He's a kid who happened to be part of our youth. Believe me that I would ask the timely question of any child and be, from any political and ideological space. Of course, the unfairness of the young student's injury, the unfairness of the new police officer who was injured that day. I would like to convey my sincere wishes for rapid recovery to both him and his relatives. In order not to abuse the time, the questions I would like to ask you, Minister, are the following: firstly, how is the arbitrary use of perpetual stitch-shine grenades by the units that put the lives of the citizens at risk? Secondly, will there be an investigation into the circumstances, and if the situation arises, will responsibility be assigned to the mediator or the officer of the business centre who gave the order concerned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u233	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on Thursday 24-10-2019 at 12.00 hours at the Propylaea University of Athens a meeting was held by members of the student clubs and then on the way to the House. The Greek Police designed and manifested order, security and traffic measures. At about 14.00'' inhabited by the march, covering the characteristics of their faces and bringing helmets and anti-positive masks and holding in their hands wooden ribs and fire extinguisher, they attacked coordinates and successively with great vigour, completely unnecessarily and unnecessarily, against the platoons of the Police Operations Directorate at Attica. The platoons had made a barrier with service buses to the contribution of the Vassilis Sophia and Zaclocosta streets. The fierce attack on the police is also shown on television footage. Platoon defended. The result of the attack was, among other things, the injury of a police officer from the Subdirection Metro Order who was transferred to the 401 Military Hospital and damaged a service bus. The State Security Sub-direction was immediately informed of the injury of a private person to the head during the course, which was sent to the General Hospital of Attica ‘CAT’. An officer of this service went to the ‘KAT’ and found that the individual in question, according to the doctors, brought two mud wounds to the left side of the ribbon, where stitches were stitched. During his oral examination, he reported that his injury originated from an unknown subject, without being able to identify his type and who threw it. The follicular wounds are not confirmed that they came from a percussion-glow grenade, as it was claimed. In addition, he said he wants nothing to do with the incident. In order to investigate the injury conditions of both the police and the private person, as well as the deterioration in the service vehicle, an administrative examination was ordered, while the pre-review procedure is under way by the State Security Directorate of the Attica Department, as is customary in these cases. I am sorry to say that in your question, you consider the arbitrary use of perfume-lute grenades. The use of Crotou-Light grenades is a legal process to deal with the severe attacks by riot protesters in open spaces. In particular, where the attacks are accompanied by a manifestation of dangerous physical integrity, as well as by the expulsion of protesters refusing to comply with legal suggestions and attacking with wood and other objects in the police forces, the rational use of tear gas has been chosen as an appropriate measure, with respect to the principles of necessity, suitability and proportionality, since it has been decided in international practice that the instrument in these cases is the mildest possible instrument. I note, of course, and I am very pleased to note that, in terms of both the injury of the private student and the police, you have expressed your sympathy, which we in the Ministry have done since the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-six students and students and five educational attendants from the 16th Municipal School of Larissa. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Guys, this is Parliament's plenary session. When drafts are discussed they are usually filled or almost filled. Today is another process. A Member of Parliament or a Member of Parliament is asking specific questions and the Minister has to answer them. That is what you have heard so far. In this regard, Mrs Bakandima, who is a member of Mera25, who is in charge of Mr Varoufakis, will comment on the reply given by the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, Mr Economou, he will return and end today's process. Here, Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your prototype. I am going to focus on a number of points so that I can ask for some clarifications on them. First of all, you mentioned that the legal procedures included the use of spit-shine grenades. Clearly it is. The clarification question I would like to put is whether there is a framework, if there is a protocol written, that the officers and businessmen can use to judge when it will be used. As far as I know - and disprove me, if I am wrong - that is not what exists, it does not exist. So we leave the use of chemicals, grenades and any other legal measures and means of repression are clearly provided for in the judgement of each company's manager or platoon. So we potentially leave unprotected both citizens who can experience violence or think they have experienced, as well as police officers in possible complaints. Plus, you said it was a fierce attack on the cage. I think that, looking back on the video, we can all see that we have seen very clearly more severe conflicts in our recipients, or as citizens who have taken part in demonstrations, and we have not had such incidents. The student did not choose, he did not want to press charges, but the Greek Police started automatically - I think you said so, maybe I didn't understand - the PPC and we expect to see if it will be upgraded to SADs. I'm going to close by saying that one piece of repression was far too much to understand. What I would also like to know is whether you intend to take some prevention measures, so that we do not have similar incidents and opened heads on either side, since it certainly was not the first rally this year, nor will it be the last one. Let me say that the samples we take so far, unfortunately, are not encouraging. On the contrary, they are extremely worrying. And I'm talking about the dystopian images outside the ASAE a few days ago. You'll tell me that they were thirty and about forty anti-powered people inside, they went out, and the MATs had to intervene, as the asylum has been abolished. But we had just as bad pictures, thankfully without any injury, and at the previous training rally. Against us, the children have arrived again in the House. We see outrageous icons that really do not fit in any European country of the 21st century. I sincerely would like to hear what prevention measures you intend to take as the leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, so that we do not get to see our democratic citizens turn into a kingdom of repression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u237	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u238	With regard to taking the measures of order, safety and traffic in demonstrations clearly and there is a specific framework which provides for them, but also for the use of tear gas, which is maintained and controlled at any time. I would, however, like to point out here that by your question you are trying to justify the diversion and create suspicions and suspicions about the police. The attempt to degrade the fierce attack of a group of riots against police forces, within Parliament, even encourages acts of violence from extreme elements. On the contrary, safeguarding the framework of law and order, which is the dominant mission of the police, shields democracy. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that the protection of constitutionally established civil and social rights, including the right of assembly, and the facilitation of their exercise, is a key and unnegotiable priority for the Greek Police.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-01-S1-commons.u240	With the consent of the House at 15.47 minutes the sitting is closed for Monday, November 4, 2019 at 18: 00, on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
