ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 20-2-2019 authorisation, the minutes of its 2nd session of Wednesday 20 February 2019 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau in its adoption of the draft law: ‘Testing of qualifications and behaviour of candidate drivers and drivers for the granting of driving licences, other provisions on driving licences and other provisions’.]] Before entering the debate of the topical and urgent questions scheduled for today, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Friday 22 February 2019. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 363/18-2-2018 by MP Kavala of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Panayotopoulos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: ‘Extension of the rental of buildings in the Cavalas Naval Group (NOK) and the Kavalas Maritime Sports Group (OTH)’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 358/15-2-2019 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Integration Mr Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "At what stage is the project to attract visitors to Lake Ladona, amounting to EUR 1,289,618?" 3. The Question No 368/18-2-2018 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The situation in the field of special education and education following the adoption of Law 4547/2018 on the New Structures". 4. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Delay in inequalities between professional farmers and owners of photovoltaic stations'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, dated 364/18-2-2018, on the subject: "Clocks" and opaque processes for the Greek Open University. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 369/18-2-2019 by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Do not settle by PPC wind park above Marmari Evia". 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct restoration of the damage caused by the catastrophic floods in Chania, Rethymnon and Heraklion Prefecture and support and compensation for the injured". 4. Under No 279/15-1-2019, the current question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "Direct actions to introduce Crete into the Transport Equivalent". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We will begin with the first question with reference number 1996/28-9-2018 of the Athens Parliamentary Committee on Radical Left (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “With zero subsidiary provision, the pensioners of the National Bank since November 2017”. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Petropoulos. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, Mr Ministers, good morning. I am addressing the Ministry of Labour and the present Minister, Mr Petropoulos, once again, on a major issue that has been created with the pensioners of the National Bank, on the zero-adjudicial provision by the so-called LEPETE, the account concerning the assistance of pensioners and workers at the National Bank. The issue is reintroduced on the basis of the question we tabled forty Members of the SYRIZA since autumn on this issue. We have already discussed this here with a timely question. But, Minister, the problem remains. The pensioners of the National Bank - around sixteen and a half thousand licensors - are with zero subsidiary provision since November 2017 - so many months! - while workers who have been left on this account - about four thousand - do not know where their contributions are going. Of course, as we had agreed, this has been a bilateral relationship between workers, pensioners and administration of the National Bank on the basis of the creation of this allo­cated account since 1949. However, because the problem is serious and I also know the Ministry's sensitivity - it has been demonstrated in a number of areas for workers, for pensioners, etc. - I think your intention is to give a solution too. Of course, I cannot repeat, because it hears people - it may be that pensioners and workers are aware of it - that in terms of this LEITE account, on the basis of Law 3371/2005 the insured are insured directly at the then IKA - EKA, so this account has no contributions, it has no revenue and it has reached the point where it is today, it has changed into a closed scheme. I know - I repeat - the interest and the efforts being made. I know there are contacts with both the side of the administration and with the pensioners. It is well known that the retired people of the National Bank are in great trouble. I know that, unfortunately, there are differences of opinion and rumours. Therefore, some answers should be given to all these issues. I would ask, therefore, because the sovereign and important thing is that the bank is okay, as far as its obligations towards this account and the workers and pensioners are concerned, what is new - if you want - in relation to this? What do you think you're going to do? And I stress once again that it is a bilateral issue between the employer, the bank and the workers and pensioners on the other hand, which has not been solved at this time. The problem is serious and it remains. There are people who are in a tragic economic situation, because - I note - this ancillary provision may have been about 40% of the total pension provision. So, you understand it was a life plan, because there are obligations, loans, cards, children's studies, housing loans and all that. So the family budget comes out largely, with an adverse effect on family income and in general. So what do you think of doing and what initiatives - probably - are you prepared to take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u3	The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Today's question by Mrs Kafantaris is probably the fourth one. I will not go back to the answers I have already given. But what was dominating all my positions is respect for collective autonomy and the role that trade unions must play, which must enlighten, unite workers, direct to the public the dynamics they can express. We didn't see that. So the government, after so long, is indeed in an unfavourable position in that it does not have that support that one would reasonably expect to have a government that wants to solve the problem. And because there has recently been a lot of talk of the fact that we have introduced the minimum wage term in the GFCM and the strong forces of the trade union movement, which would have done something different from what we do on our own, and here we are all responsible for finally expressing an opinion and a position on the solution of the problem to the LEPETE. The government has expressed its determination to resolve the problem. We are no longer left to express our will. We have given enough time to express these initiatives. I think that there have been a lot of mature things, because the knot has arrived at the comb and it has broken both the comb and the comb, and the initiatives already taken, Mrs Kafantaris, in many ways, I had already announced, but I did not go ahead with the support of the workers. I have been informed that about a thousand people have drawn signatures under a text demanding that the alleged not intervene and with personal attacks on me not dare to deal with the PPETE. It's six and a half thousand retired people. I expect the rest of the 15 000 to express an opinion. It is not possible for the government to want to go ahead, to give a solution and, at the end, to blame us because we are going to give or why we will give this solution. I am looking forward to - I stress this because it is a public step and the most official discussion of this House - of the other workers caring and gathering signatures in a text if they really want the government to go ahead with the only solution that she can give. And this solution is to take over the public subsidiary insurance system to pay the retired people from LEPETE - we do not abolish LEPETE - the provision that the state has to pay. And this is the supplementary pension granted to every citizen in the public social security system. Procedures before the courts shall not be repealed. What the courts will say is a matter of justice. We are not interfering with this, but with the place where we can intervene, although the services of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security have long expressed the view that they are not concerned. All the previous governments, Mrs Kafantaris, had a letter which they sent monotonously on the subject: 'It is not a question of our government'. That's what they said. And I'm talking about the previous governments. "It is a matter that is not even supervised by the Ministry of Labour. It does not even supervise LEITE." That was the position. And they were the governments of PASOK and New Democracy who said that. Therefore, because I hear from the Elassonian Opposition, but also from the New Democracy, to blame us because we are giving the solution, they considered that they never had the power to do so. We put our hands in the coals to take out the chestnuts. We'll do it. In the next few days there will be a meeting with the stakeholders. They will be invited to support the only solution that the government can give in institutional and legal terms. We are not interfering with the LEPETE, we are not abolishing the existing disputes, what the courts say. That is our choice, and that is what we will support.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u5	Mrs Kafantaris has the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u6	I would agree with you, Minister, that this government undertakes to resolve a number of issues in various areas, which other governments in the past and in a different economic situation in the country have not dared to resolve. And the problem, which we are discussing today, that is, the support bill, LEPETE, was known at some point to end up here. So I will agree with that. We have to - let me do - give a solution, as we are giving solutions to a number of issues in chronological order. There have been opinions all this time - and I say this because I happen to come from this place, I have been a bank officer for many years in the national particular area - who have been saying at the very first moment that the government should intervene to resolve this issue. And with regard to what you said that, while there is a will on the part of the government to intervene, there are some who say, 'no, not to intervene', that is a fact. On the other hand, however, it is true that the economic situation of the majority of pensioners is very bad and the sixteen, seventeen months - let me - are not few. We really need to find a solution. There have been various mobilizations all this time. There's some people yelling. But there is also the silent majority, Mr Minister, of the retired people who want a solution because the problem has really come to a dead end, I would say, about their economic situation. I am pleased to hear you take this initiative - it is something we have been talking about for too long, now it seems to have matured - to meet the parties - so that a solution can be found. But what I would like to say, Minister, is that this must be done soon, because the silent majority really wants a solution. And there is also the procedure that this silent majority - I say this - is trying to coordinate and demand, to ask for a public request from you - I mean the Ministry - for a solution to be given, first of all, ensuring that the bank has to pay, because we are not talking about a total burden on the public insurance system with the sixteen and a half thousand licensors of the LPETE. The employer - the National Bank in this case - must pay for a long time - not say on a permanent basis - what he has to pay for. From there on, I believe that if the initiative is taken quickly, the result will be positive, because from the zero collected by the retired national pensioners for so many months - seventeen months - the solution will be a relief. That is what I wanted to say, and I insist that the employer should, in any case, pay what is equivalent to whatever solution is given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u7	Before I give you the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERYRIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-six students and three educational sessions from the General School of Cape Chania. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You do not see many Members of Parliament because they are the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny, where Members are asking questions to the relevant ministers. The ministers are coming, they're here and they're answering. Please, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u8	Thank you again, Mr President. Mrs Kafantaris, I always want to be clear, because I heard you say what the National Bank has to do. The regulation we are going to do is in the context of the public social security system for the subsidiary. This is not all that the bank is committed by its own agreements to pay and it is not possible for the government to intervene in a private sphere of agreements. This is another process of collective bargaining and we will not intervene in this and, above all, when the relevant dispute has already been brought before the courts. Because we hear everyone making an account depending on what they are doing - and I do not mean you, but I hear people making various sums - it is clear what I say, because after that provision has been guaranteed, I may again hear protests because they are so much and there are no more. I don't know what's on everyone's mind. What will be done is what the EIF law says on the basis of the contribution paid and the income, the wages paid by each employee in the past. That's the process. This is a benefit which does not divest, does not remove the right to the above benefit arising from the EIF if the courts are in a position to decide that there is a greater obligation to provide such a benefit. Because matters are judged under procedures that I do not want to develop in detail when there is a conflict of rights and interests based on the rules governing the management of these conflicting interests. For this reason, for the past time I have called for the bank and the club to sit down to discuss and find a solution. I told them to sit down and stay out of the house and drink water, not to eat bread and find a solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u9	From your first placement, you said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u10	Since my first placement, that's what I said. This is the normal place to resolve collective disputes in the workplace. Our government would never intervene and will never intervene there and will not do so right now. It is not our initiative to intervene in the sphere of this collective autonomy. We are not abolishing either the right or the difference. The difference exists. How will it be solved is another story. It will be resolved within the framework of the system in which collective labour disputes are resolved. We will do what belongs to our sphere of responsibility, to grant supplementary pensions, because it is compulsory and it is still - fortunately - that supplementary insurance is compulsory as a public system provided to all citizens, and at that level we will give this provision, which does not abolish the other right, if there is also to the extent that it is deemed to exist. Of course, the conclusion of this dispute will come about, when the courts decide, I imagine, on the dispute that has arisen. We take the initiative in the next few days - we do not transfer it to the Greek bells, I hope in the next week too - that this meeting will take place, so that we can then legislate for pension payments to those who are retired by the LEPETE. What I am saying is very well formulated and shows the dimension of regulation. I repeat, by the retired people from the LEPETE, who are not in practice retired, but have the right to receive them from there. So I hope that, and I call on those who are a silent majority to become a strong majority, because the one who speaks is heard. Silencers are not heard and after they remain silent, silence may also be taken as a denial of a solution. So support the solution of the silent people who have a problem and say 'we have a problem, go ahead with the solution that you can give, Minister'. I haven't heard of it yet. I have heard a thousand people around a thousand hundred, which I do not know how many will become, saying 'hands down from LEPETE'. But that's the only way I can do it, putting my hands on the LEITE. I can't have one and the other, and at the end, everyone will swear. It can't be done. There's a serious matter, it burns them. Everyone must be responsible for a solution that really suits it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. As there is legislative work and many questions, I would ask that we respect the Rules and Times. We move on to the second question with No 2688/22-10-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "To put the possibility of adjusting debts to up to a hundred and twenty instalments for public and insurance funds for all those who wish to regulate their debts". Mr Kegeroglou's question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos. Please, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. In addition to the well-known generation of debtors created by the crisis, we have a new generation created by high taxation, high insurance contributions and the problems faced by households and businesses in order to fulfil their obligations towards the public and insurance funds. It is therefore imperative that we directly legislate and implement a regulation that is sustainable, which will give a solution to this issue and, of course, for those who want and can use it, that we have this possibility, which will also be beneficial to the insurance funds and the public, of course, which will be able to collect the money that is due to it. I return to the question, because for the last three years I have been tabling this question and in the last Minister said to us: 'But now that the regulation is coming, have you tabled it? Every time you smell the arrangement comes, you ask the question to remind us." Yes, from what it turns out, we need every time to remind the government that it is delaying, inactivating and, indeed, the message is negative in the sense that the forthcoming regulation leads some to the wrong idea not to fulfil their obligations, although they could be kept, even in difficulties, in order to get into regulation. For many reasons, therefore, it is necessary to apply the regulation immediately. And because from 20 August, we have neither troika nor four nor institutions, I wonder why, for six months, the Minister has not brought the regulation, what prevents him from bringing it in. It will, of course, also be possible in the regulation to give a solution to the people who are under retirement, an issue which has long refused to give a definitive solution. It will therefore be a very positive thing if all these cases are included, so that both the public and the insurance funds can be collected and the insured can be facilitated if they want to. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Please, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u14	Mr Kegeroglu, I told you in the other answers I gave in the past that you had the power to give the solution to the farmers who are retired and did not do so. You had responsibility. However, the farmer to retire with the provisions of your own, not ours, would have to pay the entire debt. The amount is 4,000 euros. It is not a large amount, but 4,000 euros are contributors for five years. For five years it is also for the EFF and goes to 15,000 euros, for five years it was also for the OAU and goes to 20,000 euros. The differentiation is due to the different amount of contributions each category had to pay. The measure was five years and the arrangement was one of your own governments. Especially for farmers, however, you did not predict that the poor farmer can retire and give the debt from the part of the pension that he has already begun to receive. He never did. What we are doing is a measure that really gives solutions, based on the data produced in the previous period. I have said that 97% of the debts collected in the CRL are debts created for the period before 2014. We need to see that by 2014 15.6% of the free traders ceased their activity and 65% of them created debts at that time. It is therefore important to change things in the economy and to turn the situation in a positive direction. This has been achieved, and now we can also have this best option, which is facilitated by debtors. That is why we could not do it either. What I have to tell you is that the fifty-nine thousand who have started the process of joining the extrajudicial compromise are really not the great crowd. It's a matter. We would expect better performance from these procedures. However, one of the four applied, one has already completed the extrajudicial procedure - I repeat - a compromise. So we need to go on with our own insurance contributions in order. This was the product of a particular thinking and processing of the system already applied as an out-of-court compromise. We have seen his performance, and we think that we really need to move towards a parallel, which does not exclude the first, management of the issue of debts, with the system that we have already worked out and which we will shortly implement. This will save the debtors, strengthen the economy and give pension to those who have not been able to retire.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u15	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, if you do not make a proper diagnosis, you cannot give a solution. So here's the evidence. Of the four hundred seventeen thousand who were included in previous regulations - what you said, of the past - they managed to keep the regulation to date a hundred twenty-eight thousand three hundred seventy. This is the latest CEAO announcement. This means that due to difficulties, which have increased and increased because of the overtaxation and the burdens imposed by the third memorandum, people have not been able to comply with the regulation. These relate to old debts. In addition, the four years have created a new generation. Only in 2018 have fifteen thousand eighty-sixteen new debtors. These are elements of the CRL. You referred to the failure of the extrajudicial. Indeed, only four thousand five hundred managed to become permanently integrated. So we agree that, even now, we should have an adjustment of a hundred and twenty doses. I would therefore like to see - and answer us for the Greek people to be informed - what will include this arrangement in relation to the removal of some fines and some surcharges, of course, depending on the course of its implementation and compliance with it and, of course, to see when it will begin to apply. I think we all have the same purpose, that is to make it easier for people who have been in difficulty for whatever reason. Do not overlook the fact that the problems intensified five years since 2014. It's a fact. They're intensified. What can we do? Even if there were no other reasons, this is a fact that we have to deal with. We must enable people to retire. Four thousand were then, because the debts were specific. For those who increased contributions, we have a burden. So, without saying 'until then you owed', 'You are green, red or blue', we have to make a solution for everyone. The government and parliament are all for the Greek people. So while we agree to need, I see that you are being delayed and delayed. What for? Bring the setting. Tell us when he's coming. To be good news in the pit and in the troubles that the world has. Say good news, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u17	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously what we're interested in, Mr. Kegeroglu, is not your fault. That's what everyone knows now. We're interested in how to solve the problem. Obviously the reasons, if you don't diagnose them properly, you won't understand them to give the right solution. I must tell you that you are wrong to say that new debtors have arisen. These debtors that the CRL says are the old debtors who were erased from the red debt and debt table, returned and lost the settings again. It is logical that there is all this weight that comes from the old charges. I told you that 65% of all debtors created debts for the period until 2014. It doesn't suddenly erase all this weight, to say "I start from pure landscape", because you have this weight coming from old. You handle it a little bit, it kicks you back, you put it aside, it's coming back. They're the bottom of the crisis. That's not what they're leaving. We have these infinite consequences of the crisis now. We don't have a white, a clean landscape, with a prosperous society and a hijacking economy. Nobody said such a thing from our side. The problems of the crisis are still facing and we will be dealing with them for several more years. That is why our government must continue this process, so that you do not come back and do it again, but that we can achieve this. However, you will also have the opportunity to contribute to the preparation of the relevant provisions that we will introduce. Obviously there will also be a debate in the committee and the bodies will come and tell us exactly what they want to happen, because you need to know that, if we can move on to this arrangement of debts in this way, which is really going to be a radically clean solution for the first time, and to relieve this world of this tough, with the high rates of debt, it will take place for the first time. If this does not happen from your side to support it, society will in fact remain in a situation of doubt. However, the question is that we all have to realise that, if that is the case, it is because there is LEVEL. Without the ECJ this cannot happen, because the relief of debts will be achieved due to a reduction in the contributions that were made by the old provisions were great and with the new provisions of the ECAFO. They're minimized. We have said this again and it is what matters, because in the problem of the crisis the one most affected was the small entrepreneur, who did not have a great deal of income. The one with big incomes did not have the problem of the little one putting on a padlock because he could not deal with these problems. I would point out, therefore, that the crucial issue in our debate in this House is the support of the Single Social Security Agency, because without EKKA and the rules for the calculation of the contributions, the reduction of the large surcharges and the great contributors imposed by the old OAU with the scales of the abrasives, from the old funds, which, in fact, were unbearable and led to the paddles. The time will come, since you care and care - I imagine - and the New Democracy will support the settlement of debts in this brave way of haircuts, to strengthen your support for the Single Social Security Agency, instead of saying to abolish and dismantle the TSE from the FBI, because otherwise it can't be done. Therefore, in the House that you will vote on, unless you refuse to vote on the regulation of debts and the discharge of the world from this harsh one, you must agree on the need to calculate the contributions in the way that is calculated in the ECA, because otherwise there is no reduction. So, first of all, I think you will support at least you, Mr Kegeroglu, who have shown so much interest in this issue, that solution, by supporting the ECA and its operation, because otherwise it is not possible. I imagine that the New Democracy will also give up the views on stopping the ECA for the abolition of the ECA, because otherwise no debt adjustment can be made in this brave way that the government will do. For the first time in this House, we will all be able to show our interest in the world that lasted for the past few years in the policies that have been abandoned. Take it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. The first under number 362/18-2-2019 topical question by the New Democracy MP Christos Boukokorous to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Rehabilitation of the OSE plant in Volos", will not be discussed due to lack of competence. Also, the third, with number 370/18-2-201819, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the grant of the allowance for unhealthy work and the extension of the institution to other categories of workers, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry of Finance is the Ministry of Finance. The second, with number 373/19-2-2019, timely question for the first cycle of the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Integration Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Dangerous "hot" in Apostlemi, in the Department of Gouves - Hersonissos", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzi. Cause: official trip to Heraklion Crete to sign the concession contract for the work of the new international airport Heraklion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u20	What about Moraite? And he's got a coma?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u21	He hasn't been informed yet, Mr. Kegeroglu. The second question by number 359/18-2-2018, on the second question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Mikhail Jellée, on the question of 'the future of customs production', will not be discussed as a result of a Member's impediment. Eleventh, under number 330/4-2-2019, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Evia Nikolaos Michou, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "Continuance of persecution of Greek minority members in Albania", is not being discussed. The thirteenth, with number 284/21-1-2019, is a topical question from the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Albanian street developments of "Greek Albania" are not discussed. The fourteenth under number 280/17-1-2019 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaou Kouzilou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The administration of the Aegean is being promoted by the government", is not being discussed. The Fifteenth, with number 260/9-1-2019, is a topical question for the second cycle of MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouziou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of crews from abandonment of a ship of inland waterways”, is not discussed. The sixth receiver under number 261/9-1-2019 is a topical question for the second question of the MEP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Anthony Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "About the Museum of Macedonian Struggle and other institutions, associations and unions of Macedonia and Article 6 of the Greek-Skopje Agreement", it is not discussed. The seventeenth under number 263/9-1-2019 topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "Cazan ready to explode the state of Skopje", is not discussed. We move on to the debate on the fifth with number 352-12-2-2019 on the second time question by Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Commission, on the question of 'Right to deal with the problems of farmers'. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr Arachovitis. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I would like it to be recorded in the Minutes, unless it was heard and I did not hear it personally, that Mr Petropoulos said many things before, but he did not say when he would bring the regulation and who would stop it and not bring it up until now. He and the entire government must realise that it is now a past, it is a past. Since January 2015, they have been responsible for the governance of the country. When they refer to the past, this space does not relieve them of anything. They are responsible - and they are irresponsible at the same time - for many things they have not dealt with. It is not all the Ministries themselves, it is not all the same, but I am talking about the general rule of the government that has a permanent pattern in propaganda that "we are changing the old, we are ending the old" and finally it does nothing but rejuvenate, reproduce bad texts and not copy good practices. Because since postpopulation there have been good practices and bad ones, and unfortunately it replicates bad ones. Let us say, then, about the question that concerns Mr Arachovitis that farmers have been experiencing difficult, because since 2015 another system of taxation has been in place and, of course, this system of taxation on the scale chosen by the government has been in a very difficult position throughout the rural world. So is insurance contributions. If you do not generate income, then the contributions are actually low. That's what Mr. Petropoulos means. Don't produce, he says, because if you produce, they take your head away. We therefore have a specific proposal from EUR 82 to EUR 405 all the scales. Not even EUR 1 for farmers! And from 167 to 600 for professionals. This is our proposal on insurance scales and we want to see if the government intends to adopt it. There are issues which have to do with increasing production costs. There are huge problems and obstacles to production and cultivation. There is a huge problem with the issue of the lack of controls and Greekisations. We have degrading olive oil prices, degrading milk prices. Of course, we have also contributed to olive oil failure in general, which is not just for this year. It's both - three previous years the same. We have the question of strangling farmers who have red loans from the bank in liquidation, which does not give them the opportunity and makes them more difficult than those who are in private banks to settle and repay their debts. We have problems with the disasters, the damages, for which an effort is being made by the ELGA. The ELGA must be supported and the records must be made faster, so that compensation can be paid more quickly. It is a lot of problems, therefore, that the farmers who are fleeing and, if you like, a simple timely question, which the Ministry is discussing, announces, says some things, etc., but we do not see a result, we do not see solutions and tell us where it is being blocked and there are no solutions to help us. Why doesn't he give solutions? There are no questions of economics. And the Rural Development Programme is largely unreported - we have several European ponds that glean - and the surpluses of the budget from overtax allow a policy to be managed. Why doesn't it apply? What have you proposed, Minister, to the relevant Ministry of Finance to reduce rates of taxation? Are you adopting the 13% we've proposed tax-free? Are you adopting the oil and electrical energy card to reduce production costs? Thank you, Mr President. I'll take time off my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u23	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, we have recently discussed them - it is not a month that we have discussed the timely question of your party - and we have analysed all the problems thoroughly, all one by one. Obviously - I say it again - your prospect is to forget what the situation in the agricultural sector was by 2014. You want to forget that the law, which you mentioned, was the 4172/2013, which was the first law to make farmers traders and taxed subsidies from the first euro in fact. We won't forget. Farmers don't forget it. You want us to forget that at that time just one in two insurers in the OGA paid their insurance contributions. And at the same time, we had ripenings every three years with the Law Loverdus - Koutrumani, who was moving him to the next, the biggest insurance category. To forget that the basic benefit in pensions was reduced by 2026, the basic benefit of which would be zero. The basic benefit was zero. Forget the debts of the GFCM and TWG? The situation in which the GFCM and the TWG arrived, with the huge accumulated debts, with the PPC's increase from 2009 to 2014, where we had a continuous increase in the agricultural current? What to forget? Forget immunity? You talked about checks. Inconsistency, dissolution, division. Nowhere, no check. There was no control anywhere. Forget that the context of the murder has been since 1953? That was the framework. The institutional framework is 1953. Balls. Nothing. Forget what? The lack of liquidity on the market with the sale of the Agricultural Bank? The main problem of agricultural production, which is largely due to the price of products, is that there is no liquidity anymore on the market. Why? Because the farmer and the whole processing, the whole primary production, does not have access to specialized funding, as he had with the Agricultural Bank. After the sale, the caging in the 'bad' rural bank of all farmers was also created, with all the mortgages. A problem we're trying to solve now. And I'll tell you later. Forget what? Forget that the rural development programme has been back all by four hundred sixty remarks and has had to be rebuilt from the start? And are you telling us about absorption, when almost most of the measures, more than 80% of them, have now been declared and are running and we are more ahead of the European Union's average? Forget what? Forget that the ELGA operates with an institutional framework of 1987, thirty years back? The institutional framework of the ELGA is 1987. There was the possibility in 2010 of an intervention, which, however, was limited to becoming a Memorandumary Organisation, a Central Government Agency. And the debts remember how much it was: 4.5 billion went to the state budget. But what have we been doing since then? Because you're talking about effectiveness. And people don't forget that. We brought the three tax-free to the farmer. We have brought the allowances for the second pillar, we have brought 12 000 tax free to the 'green' and to the associated and tax-free allowances for the employees and the pensioners until then and to the farmers. The checks have been upgraded and qualitatively and quantitatively. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Give me a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u25	Minister, you have a second. You can say it in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u26	To close just this part of the audits, Mr President, where and qualitatively and qualitatively they have been upgraded, because the Coordinating Centre, the SAVEAP, where all the bodies that were multi-dimensional, fragmented and multi-dimensional, were integrated under an umbrella. So when there's a check on an operation, it's a real check. Everything's checked. The rest I'll see you in dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u27	You're welcome. Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the Greek people and especially the farmers do not forget that they were at the heart of the PASOK policy. And, indeed, the rural world came out of the economic and social margins, it gained a high standard of living. And not only do they remember it, but they also seek it. They are seeking to do so because the crisis has hit agricultural households and agricultural production, but especially because you have included the agricultural sector in the third memorandum. Taxable: By 2014, not one euro had been taxed on agricultural aid. From there on, it's taxed. As you said very well, only basic aid and green aid are exempted, I think. Secondly, the tax rate: we agreed a fair, in our view, rate of 13% with tax maintenance - that is what we are proposing for today - and you made it 22% - 45%, right? When it is taxed with 45% the farmer who produces, I am very sorry, that is not called support for agricultural production. Five years you've been a government. Five years is now. You can't go back to the past. Because if we look back into the past, we'll tell all the good things PASOK did. Let us also say the mistakes and the omissions, but here you only copy the bad texts. That's what I'm saying. You're putting barriers to development. You're talking about audits. You're talking about the Hellenisms that you're dealing with. Can you tell me why the price of milk is 0.60 to the producer, while the price to the consumer is rather increased? That's the result. So, whatever you say, the rest of the stuff is for free. The result counts. Olive oil is 2,60 to 2,70 this year, in Crete at least. I don't know in the other regions. Can you tell me why? Are you getting back on some speculators? The tacosy yes, she's got her problems. Since 2010, it has been the institutional framework. It is not the institutional framework, however. It's the non-functional. What you're talking about is the scientific part. So, since there are issues with the scientific section, you need to see new methods, because in the years it has been more durable to the traditional methods for torch. Look at it. And, of course, let's see how we apply the laws on time. When the transfer of resources became April - and I wonder what you are doing this year - it is natural that everything should go back. We've talked about it before. So let us say that problems are not solved by the Ministry by mentioning what was in the past. I think only the party can do that, SYRIZA, the MPs. To do the political information and propaganda, the information about what has happened and what is being proposed. But, to give solutions, there are certain people on specific points. And these are not the ministers and the ministries. Give us solutions, then. Please recommend to the Treasury the degression of taxation. Proposal to reduce the burden of insurance contributions by adopting our proposal from EUR 82 to EUR 405, eight scales. Adopt our proposal for the oil and electricity card. The electricity in the farm, didn't you abolish it? Haven't you raised 30% this year for the TWGs? Is that possible? Didn't you put the knife in their throats for PPC to have revenues, which is at risk of other graceful operations that it makes from purchases in Skopje, incorrect markets, and from the mismanagement of the administration? So come to the issues, to the problems. ELGA has been exalted since 2010. It doesn't give rise to debts. We need reform, I would say, continuously, the regulation as a result of climate change and new problems. Perhaps we should also discuss the risks of the market at some point if they can join the ELGA regulation. It's a job you have to do. But you cannot constantly invoke time and do nothing. And the problems for the farmer to lose income and to have problems for young people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u29	Please complete, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u30	From the Rural Development Programme only the Youth Farmers Programme has gone ahead. And wrongly, too. And can I tell you something? First, you give them the money, and then a half and a half, you invite them for training. You're saying to them: "Okay, take money for two and a half years and come back for education after two and a half years," I say again. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. Mr Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, blaming us that we did not do in four years what you did in forty, I think the Greek people are kind of appraising it. You're pushing us because we haven't done what we haven't done in forty years all over the place!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u33	For the troubles...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u34	The results show. As far as this government's interest in the agricultural sector is concerned, I will only tell you that the Prime Minister was the only Prime Minister who put the issue of the financing of the CAP to the Heads of State or Government, and not, he proposed solutions. So for this government the first sector, the foundation stone, is agricultural production. But I will also tell you about taxation, because we said that L.4172/2013 was the one who introduced taxation for the first time from the first euro of all incomes, of all subsidies. All of them! And from this government they are protected. Tax policy and our support policy have begun. The trade fee, introduced in 2010, was abolished. For cooperative farmers, the members of cooperatives have now been abolished, as has the protection of subsidies of up to EUR 7,500. You know well that there was a proposal - recommendation of the Citizens' Counsellor. And this government also listens to the institutional factors in Greece, but it acts and works with acts. But let me tell you this. You are obviously interested in large incomes rather than small and medium-sized farms, because 87% of small and medium-sized farmers are in tax-free payments and are in the lowest insurance contribution. They don't need to, or do you think that something else is going on with them? For us small and medium-sized farmers are a priority. And of course, the biggest incomes, we all lighten them. The contribution to medium and longer incomes of farmers has been reduced by 33%. We are going to tax relief, but targeted through cooperatives. All the incentives will be given through cooperatives. Why? Because co-operation is the only way out to deal with the structural problems of agricultural production. In other words, I would like to say that this government is not dealing with things in an occasional manner and making easy populism. It tackles them with a plan and a step - step by step: And the cost of production, starting with the labour costs and a number of other interventions that have been made and the arrangements for agricultural debts and the arrangements for old contributions, where I told you that by 2014 only one in two paid the OGA. They have accumulated contributions and people can't get pensions. Mr. Petropoulos explained to you how this government works. The new law on the homicide is ready before the gates to be filed and discussed here in Parliament's plenary. The old distortions in the cooperative thirty years broke down the cooperative movement, left herds behind. Collaborations with deep history have remained deaf and administrations locked in. That's what we're trying to solve, and that's what we solve every day in four, five years. That is what we have been trying to solve, what has been dissolved for decades. The institutional framework for fisheries is 1966 and now a comprehensive fisheries law is coming. So our interventions are in a plan and have a reasonable direction, what has never existed in the country so far. You're right, though. The problems of farmers and the rural world are many and especially in a difficult year, as they were in 2018, a very difficult year in terms of weather, a year that has reduced production, reduced quality and olive oil, increased costs, we are trying to deal with them through exceptional support programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too, Minister. We proceed to the first under number 361/18-2-2018 first cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr. Vassiliou Yoyakas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Addressing requests for beneficiaries of the support measure for young farmers in 2009’. My request is, because there is legislative work and because we are already delayed...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u36	The request is respected, Mr President, but you control the debate and you must apply the Rules of Procedure. We have no reason here, but when they speak ten and twenty minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u37	I agree. I'm saying it's not an order. The word "please" in a dictionary, you know, is a request. Don't give me any hints!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u38	Respectful.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u39	Please, Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question concerns farmers who were found beneficiaries of the Youth Farm Aid Programme in 2009, a programme launched by the then government of New Democracy. This was anticipated by an initial grant of EUR 40,000. With this amount as a given contract with a duration of ten years and specific commitments were signed. The PASOK government and the top of the original installation premium are then reduced to half, to 20,000 euros. They therefore sign new ten-year contracts with the new much smaller amounts, which - take note of - with the same obligations and objectives as the original contract. They even say that if they didn't sign, they'd be out of programme. And while they had already bought or leased land and facilities in the calculation of the 40,000 euro cap, while they had already invested in animals and herbal capital, they already bought machinery and equipment, which they could not divest afterwards, because they were banned by the contract they signed, these people were at a disadvantage from the outset with exposures that were difficult to cover. For young farmers in 2009 the injustice that started running in our country has continued since 2015, resulting in the single payment entitlements, which continued to take over in the six-year period, to be much lower than young farmers in the coming programmes. We therefore want you, Minister, to tell us whether and what can be done for these people, such as for the approximately 200 farmers in the Thesprotia Prefecture who have recently decided to seek their right to justice as well, and especially if there is a chance to balance the reduced value of rights, by giving them rights from the national reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. I too should apologize, Mr Colleague, because the previous question was all about matter, so we got out of hand, it's a fact. Now, for the issue of young farmers in 2009, the invitation, if you remember, came out at a height of up to 40,000, with public spending of 100 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u43	It was 300 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u44	A hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u45	It was 300 million and there were 150 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u46	One hundred was public expenditure and had a deadline from 16-02-2009 to 31-12-2009. However, there was very great interest at the time - already until June, the supply from demand had been overshadowed - and on 25-06-2009 a ministerial decision was made on the end of the period - that is to say, the notice - instead of 31-12-2009, on 15-07-2009. By that time, two thousand seven hundred beneficiaries had already submitted, enough of which was the money of 100 000 and another five thousand eight hundred who were ranked as the celebrators. That is precisely because of this situation, and given that it was a period of election - if you remember - approved on 30-03-2010 with the KYY 2655/30-03-2010 an additional amount of 55 million. The sum of EUR 20,000 to EUR 40,000 was also reduced and from EUR 10 000 to EUR 20,000 at the same time - and this is the important one - the initial contracts of the two thousand eight hundred that had been entered and amended to the new amounts were unilaterally cancelled, namely from EUR 10 000 to EUR 20,000. That's the one part of injustice for people then. A prioritization was given to them with a higher percentage of participation, with higher percentages in the improvement plans at that time, and to some other programmes and some additional benefits. However, these people, the two thousand eight hundred, to whom the contract was amended and the others who received the reduced amounts, would in theory have access to the national reserve. But what's going on? In 2009, no new rights were allocated through the first pillar of rural development. Let's go to 2010. In 2010 an allocation is made with extended criteria, which the amount of the reserve is then shared. A small amount. Let's go to 2011 and 2012, where there's no distribution. So they don't get either in 2011 or in 2012 these people, to compensate a little for what they should have taken from the beginning. In 2013 an allocation of rights took place. However, 2009 was not eligible. Why? For that reason, it was considered eligible in 2013 to be only those who joined until 2011. So, and then all the years until 2015, young farmers in 2009 only got for 2010 and all the other years were excluded. Since 2015, of course, we have passed to the new CAP, where the conditions and conditions for the grant of basic aid have changed from the single market to the core, the programming period has changed, and that is where no longer has been possible. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] What could be done will be said in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u48	Minister, I'm glad you have a full picture of this. For the treatment of young farmers in 2009 there are, indeed, political responsibilities. They exist for the PASOK government in 2009, because they reduced the top of the original installation with the signature of the initial contract. But there are also the new SYRIZA - ANEL Government at the beginning of 2015, as regards the level of the rights that these farmers eventually receive. By Regulation 1307/2013 for the young farmers of ‘pillar 1’, aid could be granted to those who were for the first time the leaders of the holding or had already settled in the five years before they applied for. Since the regulation was to enter into force since 2015, this provision has excluded the young farmers who had applied for in 2009. What did they lose? They have lost the opportunity to get the maximum amount of the right to each category of land from the first year of the new CAP, i.e. about EUR 43 per acre, if we talk about farmed fields, of course, which you have not yet given. They also lost the extra bonus, for those who had started their activities in the past five years, which was equal to 25% of the value of their rights. What then did the Samara Government do over Mr. George Karasmani's office? He had prepared a joint ministerial decision prioritising young farmers in 2009 for the allocation of rights from the national reserve to compensate for the losses they would have had due to the provisions of Regulation 1307/2013. This joint ministerial decision was found ready, Minister - not you personally - but you did not go ahead with it. You gave other priority categories and left out of the national reserve the young farmers in 2009, those who - I say again - were already wronged by half the original establishment premium they took in 2010. So, all these years, in the difficult years for our economy, these people have had a hard time meeting the obligations of the ten-year contract they signed. They borrowed to get through and finally became poorer than they were. That is the reality, Minister, and despite the occasional promises these farmers have not seen any substantial development. If 2014 could be given a political solution to the issue of reduced-value rights, it is certain that you can give such a solution and now, taking advantage of the national reserve for people who are admittedly wrongful and indeed politically responsible. I would also like your sensitivity and your good will on this issue, so that we can find a fruitful and creative solution for these people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organises and operates, thirty-nine students and students and two teachers, from the General School of Cape Chania (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, political responsibility is given and we analysed it along the way. However, you also referred to Regulation 1307, which is 2013. The 2013 regulation that were negotiated by the then governments - indeed specialises later with the government's 1930/20-7-2015 CSR - says that under the regulation beneficiaries are younger than 40 years old - the age criterion was introduced - which first created an agricultural farm as its leader in 2015 or who had settled in the past five years. So that's where those who met those criteria joined. However, many people, most probably, had already passed the first threshold of forty years. I also want to tell you that in 2014, it was not predicted during the negotiation of the current CFP, the current period, that there should be a bridge for these people by means of an AAA measure or in any way that there should be a provision - a bridge for these people. So, entering 2015, negotiating in 2014 and having concluded the new programming period, there was no provision for these people. In fact, so far, I will tell you what has happened, trying to find solutions with national resources, because, as you can see, after the closure of the programme, they have not been predicted and cannot go from European funds. So far, then, the answer we have received for the integration of these people - because there have been genuine efforts and because of the form '6', which was another failure, a huge injustice that has once again hit the young people of 2009 - by the European Commission is not positive. But we're trying to find a bridge after ten years. Since 2009 we have been in 2019 and we have been trying to find some way to limit the losses of these people, who, with other plans, entered in 2009 and were caught in a situation that has led them to be in a very difficult position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u51	The third question will now be discussed under number 342/11-2-2019, the second question by MP Phhotidis of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Vettas Vettas, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of 'payment problems relating to the ineligibleness of agricultural parcels'. Mr. Vetta, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank you, Minister, for responding to a very serious question, in my personal opinion, concerning the problems of payments relating to the ineligibleness of agricultural parcels. It is a matter of concern to the whole of the country. But I'm going to talk about my country, Phthytida. You know very well that in 2018 the OPEKEPE Agency proceeded to one - I would say - a revision of the paper background. I do not want to blame the Agency, but there was no written, oral, official or even informal statement on it. Evidently some problems have arisen. Farms declared in 2017 as eligible and thus paid during the personalisation of the payment of the advance payment of the notification, appeared in 2018 as ineligible. They had the code ‘not eligible’, and then they also had the unpaid. As far as we all understand, there have been problems in the amount, size and range of subsidies. Eligibility is obviously not related to the suspension of forest maps. I would say that it does not follow the course - if you like - of on-the-spot checks. It doesn't result from them. It also does not incorporate previous on-the-spot checks. The method followed by OPEKEPE is the method of photo-interpretation of aerial photographies via satellites. In Fthiotida Prefecture, Minister, to be brief - and in my area, in the Municipality of Styloda, and in the wider region of eastern Fthiotida there are over three thousand parcels. I don't know if you have any updates. More than seven hundred, then, eight hundred farmers face this problem in a range of about ten thousand farmers throughout the Phthytotida prefecture. The problem is obviously not a single one. If we could categorize, I would say that there are farmers who have arable farms and parcels that were not grown at the time of the aerial photography. There are farmers who have parcels which have not been cultivated in the reception of aerial photographs, but later on either trees or arable crops. There are farmers who have parcels which, due to terrain or the angle of taking aerial photography, do not appear in the display as olive trees, as trees, but as dense vegetation. There are parcels that were on the line with forest land and because the perimeter area was judged by forest trees, so they were judged by sections of the map and those that were not cultivated. There are, of course, parcels which have been judged by the wrong assessment of the operator of the photo-interpretation method. I don't know your answer. I don't know if you're gonna try to examine them one by one. It's a time-consuming process, and I don't know if we have the time. I don't know, too, whether there's gonna be a removal of the paper background from the OPEKEPE. As I do not know, if the rest of the subsidies are to be credited to these farmers, who have lost part or all of their subsidies. I look forward to your answer, as very many people throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u54	Thank you again, Mr President. My dear colleague, the fact is that OPEKEPE has an obligation to renew its background paper. The mapping background must always be up-to-date, so this process is a continuous process. As you can see, during this process, when the new background falls - which in this particular case you refer to the background, the orthophothena was in 2015 - from the "CATCHOLOGY S.A." there is very likely to be failures especially during the first year of application. As far as your region, Fthiotida, is concerned, payments have so far reached 94.4% of the total value of the activated basic payment entitlements. The history, however, as you mentioned it, is that producers have been informed of the possible errors, of the failures, of the eligibilitys and have had the opportunity to raise objections. This was the first time with OPEKEPE’s circular 7062/18-9-2018, where it was possible to change in terms of overlapping, eligibility, inclusion in a region, regionalisation, and subsequently apply for reintegration until 31 January 2019. As a result of this process, we had a hundred ninety thousand ninety - ninety - one parcels declared in the year 2018. From this until January 31, 2019, the objections were in the sixteen thousand sixty-eight parcels. Those objections were examined through the integrated information system for 2018 and approved the eight thousand nineteenths of a parcel, in whole or in part. For the two thousand seventeen they received a rejection, while there is still a discussion of objections for four thousand nine hundred twenty plots, which will be made immediately. There is a direct examination of the remaining remaining agricultural parcels in order to have or to have them into the next cross-border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too. Mr Vettas has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with some evidence you've given me, two questions are being raised. The first is - and I think this is the agony of the world, and this has to be answered - whether we have time in which the objections will be paid and paid back, which have a positive sign. Is that gonna be in one, two, three or four months? People need to know when they're about to get paid. I have, of course, retained the number of objections which have been rejected. It's two thousand interrupted seventeen, like we said. For these two thousand interrupted seventeen objections which have been rejected, will you follow any other procedure? Or will these objections be deemed definitively eligible, will they be definitively rejected? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u57	Again, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. As far as your first question is concerned, for the outstandings I have told you that they are being dealt with directly, we are planning interim payments. No later than the next interim payment we hope to have cleared up with all the loose ends, it is before Easter. So it's close, and the process goes on. So, there, we'll have the cross-check and payment so that before Easter the beneficiaries were paid. With regard to your other question about the two thousand seventeen parcels and what is likely to arise from the four thousand nine hundred twenty, the right to request an on-the-spot is still not lost. Producers, i.e. keep the control element. And it's right that you point it out so they know nothing's gone. If their parcels really are eligible and in the administrative way that has taken place the junction now could not be solved, there is also the way on the ground. So they keep the evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, too. The fourth question will then be discussed under number 345/11-2-2019, the second question of the new Republic MP Argolidis, Mr.Ioannis Andrianos, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Great and unjustified delays in the implementation of the extension of the Anavalou to Koutsopodi, Mycenes, Monastiraki, Fichti and Ermionida". Mr. Adriane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, you are well aware of this - the problems in the agricultural sector are very long and time-consuming, such as production costs. As you well know, 2018 was a very bad year for both olive producers and orange and mandarin producers due to weather conditions. They have suffered enormous damage, as have farmers, at the low price of milk. While the feta has a huge demand abroad, here we see the prices of milk compress and are now inconsistent with farmers. So your policy and the problems must be tackled at two levels: the first level is the direct support of these producers, such as the olive oil producers who saw the oil produced this year, and because of the wood, as you know, the low prices. However, there is also a corresponding problem for oranges, where ELGA does not cover the damage. As far as I'm concerned, seventy-three thousand tons are on the trees and they can't be cut, because they've got spots due to constant rainfall and ELGA doesn't cover. Also, with regard to mandarins, clementines have been destroyed and producers have not been compensated, they have not been supported. I think you will have something to say to these producers. Of course, at the level of development, which is the second level, a huge development project is Anavalos, which is also the subject of the topical question. It really is a work of breath, a work of life. We've talked about it. I have put it since 2009 that I have been elected a Member. I will submit for the Minutes - for there to be - all the questions - my speeches and the answers I have received. I think that this work should finally be completed. A piece of it's over. It was a project that was designed, launched by New Democracy and joined the "Alexandros Baltatzis" at the time. The central pump works have been completed. There's been some kind of conduit. He proceeds with the work of Epidaurus, as you know. However, works in Fichati, Koutsopodi, Mycenas, Monastery have not yet been auctioned - is a project of 7.8m euros - as is Ermionida, which is an important project. The current Prime Minister from Tripoli also recognized it in his speech at the regional conference a few months ago. So these delays cannot go any further. After all, you have answered that the deadline for submitting the relevant proposals to measure 4.3.1 for this project expired on 30-11-2018. I look forward to your responses to these important projects. I'll see you in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u61	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, in fact in 2018, as we all know, it was a difficult year for the rural world. Where this government can intervene, it is trying to make up for the lost income of farmers. It is also known in the area of yours and in other parts of the Peloponnese that especially with the variety of clementine in mandarins, there is a serious problem with regard to its quality, especially the commercial price, so the producer's income is also being considered. As you say - and this is hopeful - it is very positive. Both the reputation and demand of the Greek PDO feta and Greek yoghurt, if valued in cigarettes, in cash, is a huge figure, which shows how well these products are established in consumer awareness of their quality, their taste, their uniqueness, which unfortunately cannot be exploited. We have the gold in our hands - and not only the feta, but also the yoghurt, the olive oil, our aromatics - that is, a series of products whose reputation is running ahead, and we cannot follow their course. This is something that we need in concrete steps rather than fire-fighting the problems of the rural world, to solve, to take advantage of. So we have to produce wealth, increase the pie. Now, with regard to your specific question about the work of transporting the water of Anavalos to Koutsopodi, Mycenes, Monastery of Fichia and Ermionidas, I would remind you - from there you are well aware - that this is a great project launched in the 1980s. I myself, as a student, visited the area in 1993 as part of a study trip to see what exactly happens to Anavalos. Since then, a series of projects have been carried out - extensions and continuously because of the adequacy of the water that is fortunately present in the area, the network is expanding. Here we have to see that the proposed project has reached EUR 7 896 000 along with its sub-projects. This includes the following sub-projects: It includes the transportation and distribution of water network in Koutsopodi, Mycenes, Monastiraki, Fichtia, Chonika, Airport, Greek of the Municipality of Midas Argolida, which costs 4,073,000 euros. It includes work for archaeology - obviously the area is rich and there will be findings - of EUR 450,000, expropriations of EUR 750,000, for PPC EUR 500,000 and for other things that cost EUR 7 896 000. Let us say here, however, that the agency - and it is to its credit - has taken all the necessary steps, which are time-consuming because many services are involved, in order to run the expropriations procedure much earlier than expected. That is because he managed to do two procedures at the same time and not successively. It did not squeeze the time, but it worked at the same time. However, this has reached us in a phase that the project has already accelerated considerably. I will also tell you about the funding in the second phase.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u63	For Hermiones?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u64	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Adriane, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I am also waiting, of course, for the President of the Council, because the section on Ermionida is a great task and very essential to the survival of the rural world. But it also has an environmental dimension for the region. As you know, the water horizon now has huge problems and the lack of water when there are periods of water shortages are huge. This, of course, affects production very much, which we have seen in previous years. This project will facilitate and be used to irrigate twenty-two thousand acres, Minister. It is a large area which, in fact, will give another development dimension to the area of Ermionida, where it is also affected by water shortages. I also expect you to tell us when the department will be auctioned at Koutsopodi, Fichati, Mycenaeans, Airport, Monastiraki. So it is a work of which you obviously also know the necessity, since as a student you have visited. As I said in my prototype, the Prime Minister himself has pointed it out. And when the Prime Minister of a country speaks specifically of a project, he commits himself. It binds the government, binds the services, binds them all. I am waiting for this auction date, i.e. I expect to hear from you a specific timetable, because it has been a number of years now. Partially, however, this work has not been completed to give farmers and the development of the region as appropriate. Of course you were right to say about the possibilities of Greek milk, but farmers are facing huge problems, as I said, at the cost of production. I would like to point out once again a problem that has been created in Argolida, with the exception of the new map of disadvantaged areas of the Ministry - we have discussed it - areas which must be on the map of disadvantaged areas. They are “floor furniture” for these farmers, their exception. You need to see it, Minister. They're specific communities, city apartments. If you want, I will testify for the Minutes the table in which areas are mountainous or non-mountain regions, which have not entered, etc., which areas are not disadvantaged. And in some debates either at the Ministry or at a question via parliamentary control - after all, I have asked you a relevant question - I believe that we will get answers and correct situations that I believe are the wrong decisions, because they exclude regions such as the twins in Eliokastro, Ermionida, Trachea - which are mountainous. I cannot understand the reasoning behind these people, who have decided to exclude from the disadvantaged areas these particular areas, when they have developed livestock and PDO products. And finally, we have this problem of exception, which will affect both farmers and farmers in the region. I am, of course, waiting, Mr Minister, for you to act through de minimis and through other support programmes for the producers of mandarin clementines. You also need to see the oranges. You said that the ELGA regulation was 1987. But you are already five years of government. You and your predecessors have admitted that there must be a review. We must finally, since climate change has created huge problems and changed the data, we must look at the revision of the ELGA regulation, because, indeed, the organisation is being discredited. Once farmers themselves have paid premiums, they must not feel this disappointment and when they need to be compensated. Of course, as far as the oil producers are concerned - you are from Laconia and I believe that you are particularly interested - and the damage they have suffered in oil must also be supported. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I'd like your tolerance for half a minute. You also need to see - and we need to see it all - the cost of manufacturing. And because we are talking about the Ridiculus, at the same time we could well go ahead - in cooperation with your fellow ministers responsible - topics such as the use of photovoltaics in the energetic process of water extraction. There are at the main pump room three new pumps and two backup old ones, which really are powered. A photovoltaic plant could be made in pumping stations with money from European funds, where, in fact, the cost to the producer using water will be considerably reduced.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u67	Please, Mr. Andriane, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u68	I shall conclude, Mr President, immediately and apologise. But you must also see another problem. In relation to the Ministry of Finance, you must see the following absurd:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u69	Please, Mr. Andriane, you're about to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u70	A producer who uses the water of Anavalos, if they pass through the central pumping station two and three smaller pumping stations, pays VAT two and three times for the same good. In other words, for the same amount of water because the intermediate pumps are intervening, they pay twice and three times VAT on electricity. So you need to see with the Treasury and that. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the "World Democracy Workshop" educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and two teachers and two educational attendants from the 8th Acharnon Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. To conclude, Mr President, the answer to your question about the project, because you have also raised many issues. Agricultural production has a large number of issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u73	I'm transferring the agony.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u74	He's understandable. Everywhere there is the agony of the producers. The service does work for this project. It is what I said to you that it has speeded up the procedures of both the proclamation of expropriation and the continuation of the process of ordering property. This process runs in parallel, in fact based on a law in Article 49(2)(b) of Law 4412/2016. So it speeds up the process. In addition to the Act 1654 of 4 December 2018 of the Service Decision, an amendment to the decision to continue the operation was made and, in particular, an increase in the budget for the Sub-project "Construction of Transport Projects..." etc. and from 7,896 000 which, as we have said, was the original budget for how much and requested, it went up to 8,370,000. The study was updated, then, and we had an increase in the budget of almost EUR 500,000. As you well know, measure 4.3.1 has been closed on 30-11-2018 and the evaluation process is progressing. For the disadvantaged areas you said in the area, the criteria were extended. It is Regulation 1307/2013. Therefore, the 2013 Regulation provides for different criteria than the previous Regulation with the previously disadvantaged areas, which were in the 1980s and 1987s. The then regulation had other criteria than those that entered in 2013. With the new 2013 criteria, some areas that were characterised as disadvantaged cannot be qualified as disadvantaged today. On the other hand, some other areas which were normal in 1987, with the new regulation of 2013, fall into disadvantaged areas. We have a change of this kind - I say again - with the criteria that have been introduced by the regulation. One of the main criteria that we have been broadening was the participation of pastures. We said, therefore, that if pastures are even 25% in the community, the whole community is part of disadvantaged. We have broadened the criteria precisely to help farmers. Speaking of the ELGA, which you said exactly in the logic of rationalising and social justice in what someone pays the agency and with what frequency it is compensated, we have made a reduction in the levying of certain crops, as was olive cultivation. We've moved on to a reduction. That government did it. Finally, to finance the photovoltaics that, as you rightly say, is a great cost - in terms of production costs, irrigation is a great cost - we have created the energy communities. In fact, we have also created financial tools for integrating the funding of photovoltaic installations through energy communities. This in some parts of the country has already begun. And since I am given the opportunity of this Step, I call on all the TWGs to go ahead with the creation, exploitation of the institutional framework for energy communities, to establish energy communities, to apply for funding, so as to reduce costs to the farmer, because any inactivity is now no longer justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u75	When's the Hermionda auction going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u76	As soon as the examination takes place... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u77	Here is the sixth question, under number 354/12-2-2019, of the second question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Image of the irrigation of the irrigation network of the General Organisation of Improvements (GOB) Pineion - Alpheus". Please, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. This picture, of course, is not a picture of the moment - it is the governments' time-consuming demand for poor medium-sized farms - nor, of course, is it simply about a particular GFCF, the GFCF Peninsula-Alpheus. Such problems are almost all of the GFCFs. What, then, is the problem with the GEOB Peninsula-Alpheus in the Prefecture of Elijah? The problem is that in the Epitalio pump from the five main pumps only operates, as in the Kavorio pump, where only one pump operates again, resulting in the risk of collapse due to their continuous operation and incomplete maintenance. The consequences of such a development, of course, are disastrous - that is, the collapse of the GFCM Pinio-Alfios and these pumping stations - both for the cultivated areas and for the city of Tower and the risk of flooding that may occur. However, in total other irrigation pumps either have burnt engines or have dissolved pumps that need immediate repair. This is all, of course, the result of a logic and a philosophy that water must be expensive for farmers in the context of recompense. The unscrupulous charges for the use of water imposed on farmers mean that all GFCMs remain unpreserved and at all risk their operation. But beyond that, there are also forty workers who have been unpaid since the summer, Minister, without having to deal with basic living issues. So the question is so much about what the government will do about the immediate payment of workers, about the immediate maintenance of the irrigation network, but also about the overall problem of the state-responsible TWGs and the GFCGs in the country, centrally and not throwing the ball into the regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u79	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you are well aware that since the 1960s, the institutional framework of the improvements agencies has enabled self-government and self-organisation within the local societies of organisations that will manage their waters. This government will in no way manipulate the administrations. However, you also know well that immunity from previous years has brought a number of problems. And what were those problems? The first problem was that half of them paid or part of the consistent farmers, and a large part - by mocking their backs - did not pay, with the result that the revenues were falling apart, the networks were falling apart, the workers were unpaid and there was an administrative crisis. That was the picture. And this wasn't marked at the time it was supposed to be. In other words, the micro-policies on the farmers' back from the agencies have not been stigmatized by the whole political system. On the contrary, a large part embraced it and put it under its wings. And we have seen executives of organisations emerge and evolve with these practices. From there on because of unsatisfactory management and non-monitoring, we have phenomena, such as what you described exactly. What did this government do? The institutional framework has changed. It transferred with Law 4456/2017 responsibility for supervising the municipalities - which until then was a farm for all these phenomena - to the regions, with a view to creating offices - so that old land improvements were now called - so that there can be scientific support for all these major projects. These are large projects, so that a small organisation can manage them without scientific support. In 2018 with L.4546 issues were settled on the composition of the agencies' councils and on the adjustment of how the debts were collected, so that the agencies could have a piece of resources, be able to finance and co-finance necessary projects, because the networks either collapsed either they were outdated or they were now in need of expansion. Conditions have changed, crops have changed, climate conditions have changed. Organizations cannot function in a logic of the 1960s. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The rest I'll report to my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u81	Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you quite rightly said that this is a very big issue, which cannot be dealt with at the level of a local society but needs a more comprehensive approach. In this respect, however, you, too, as a government, are insisting on a logic which has led to collapse and failure. What's that logic? It's the logic of self-government. It's not self-government. It's recompense. If you want water, you have to pay, so you can meet the needs. So on the substance of the matter is the logic of commercialisation of water. That is what you imposed. We say that this logic of recompense, of water trading, is the one that has led to this development of things and there will be no reverse course. And from this point of view, we say that it is a hostile policy, because precisely it creates serious problems for farmers and, in particular, for poor, medium-sized farms, in order to be able to cultivate their fields, beyond the nipple that they have to pay for the water, when they have to pay for the taxes, for their insurance and the more comprehensive problems with the sale of the agricultural production they have. So huge debts have been accumulated to farmers, so they cannot get through. And now the ball is being thrown into the regions, which, of course, also have a responsibility for the situation. However, it is not a question of dealing with it, because it will always be said in this logic: 'Find revenue so that you can support it'. It is not, however, a question, Minister, since this is a more comprehensive issue, which concerns the management of water resources as a whole, when almost 80% of water resources are destroyed, lost and not exploited in our country, on the basis of a study by the TEC. Therefore, more comprehensive planning is needed for both the management of water resources in our country and the water resources that will be consumed for irrigation and cultivation of agricultural production, its development. However, this is not the case, it cannot be done by the region, it is the government's responsibility. But the government not only today but also the previous ones do not deal with this issue in this way. So what do we say? We say that, of course, the problem of the payroll of their employees must be tackled immediately. We cannot whistle indifferently, and the government to fly the ball into the region and the region to say 'I do not have the relevant resources' to pay the workers. One thing is that. Secondly, there is a need for direct intervention here under the responsibility of the State, in order to maintain these networks, to restore the enormous damage that exists. We are not saying that the networks should be expanded in the next phase, which should be extended in the next phase. This must also be done through state funding through the Public Investment Programme, through the use of European programmes which do not go in that direction, because they are not eligible. And, of course, the question is to have cheap water and cheap water means that the debts that farmers have in the TWGs and the GFCFs must be cut. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u83	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u84	Thank you again, Mr President. Let us make it clear, Mr Colleague, that water is a resource which is a public asset. And that's unnecessarily unnecessarily. From this government is unnecessarily unnecessarily! Also, the element to be found in the rapid improvements bodies is the part of social justice on the one hand, as regards the farmers of two or several speeds within the same organisation and the part of self-management. Farmers, producers, true producers, together with scientists, have the responsibility - and they must have the responsibility - of managing all this good - of the resource, which concerns their region, of their production, of their cost of production, of their survival at the end of the day. And it's distressing and it proves the size of all I'm telling you, that we have such problems in a region with Penises and Alpheus, where water is the most abundant raw material, the most abundant good. It's not in an area of dry heat, where there's no water, where they're experiencing other problems. In an area of adequacy, all pathogens are present. And you know very well that this GFCM was a crisis of command - why? - because when the new administration took over, he found all the pathogens accumulated, found huge debts, found damaged networks - what you described at the beginning of your question - he found debts to workers and was transferred to resignation. However, with regard to the need for immediate restoration and damage - because it is also the drainageist problem in this GFCM - a concrete, comprehensive and well-documented study and evidence of the work required and their costs has been requested to find the way to finance it. This, because of all the pathogens you have described, has not yet been made possible. We don't have an official record from the GFCM to know what it takes, how much that costs, so that we can find a way to incorporate it into funding. So it is not the problem of money in this case and who will finance it, but the operation itself. And if we do not resolve this issue, it makes no sense to talk about anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u85	Assembled, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u86	It's in the debts, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much. We move on to the seventh under number 343/11-2-2019 topical question from the Second Athens Congress of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ioannis Tsironis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'The Single Food Control Agency'. Mr. Chironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the FFET issue is unfortunately not new. The overlap with other organisations that threaten its functioning and reliability, such as the Ministry of Health Agency which issues health conditions and conditions for the operation of food and drink business often contrary to the FTE, such as the Ministry of Economy and Development with the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection, which issues requirements of the Ministry of Health for the control, supervision and compliance of new rules on the marketing and marketing of food, such as the State Chemistry which continues to produce politics, while it is a chemistry. So we have several syndicated spots inside the system. Fortunately our farmers and rural women also produce very high-quality products in Greece, literally, we do not have food scandals. We are perhaps the only country in Europe or the only ones who have never had a food scandal. Unfortunately, these were intensified by Law 4512/2018. When we voted for this law, there was a commitment from the other ministries to stop these overlaps. I would like to add that the sub-commitment of the FATD is affecting his ability to carry out checks. When his subsidy is only enough for the two forty - seven employees, instead of the eighty - eight - eight that his establishment plan says, the checks are obviously zeroed. This does not only cause damage to professionals, who have conflicting orders from various control services, but also creates a problem for our producers. You know the feta problem. There are complaints that in many health stores they sell white feta cheese and there is currently no staffing and infrastructure to control this phenomenon rather than just priced and not chemical analysis. So I ask the new administration of the FFD what it will do - and it is important - to stop all these overlapping, which harm the market and put consumers' health at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u89	Minister, you have the floor. Today you have your honour from what I see!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u90	It's my day. Mr Tsironi, you are aware of the problems of the FIFG, because until now you have been Deputy Minister for Rural Development, so the problems are well known and you know the initiatives taken by this government in order to stand up and stand on its feet, because its role is crucial. On the one hand, it has to safeguard, protect the health of consumers and their nutritional safety, and on the other hand it has to ensure income through the reputation of the producer's products, the farmer's fields, the stables and the sea. So this role of the FET as the only Single Food Control Agency is very critical. You know that one of the main issues that FET had was the matter of the Director-General. The Agency operated without the Director-General. An invitation was issued next year and is now moving on to the process of submitting applications for evaluation, etc. for the placement of a Director-General. It was one of the most critical issues posed by the previous administration and by the present and by the workers and by all sides, because an agency that performs audit work, manages a series of workshops abroad, outgoing agencies, makes partnerships and at the same time has its functions, cannot function only with the Vice-President, who is acting formally as Director-General. So this problem has been resolved. The question of staff is also resolved, to the extent that we can now make improvements of this kind. The fact is that all the Memorandum years, as a general government supervised agency, FET had departures without being recruited. This led him to a critical point. This government, therefore, with all the tools it has in its hands, strengthens the staff of the EFSI either by the transfer process or by the recruitment of the unemployed professional scientists with its programme by the Ministry of Labour or by the invitation to call for positions on the way. So as far as the agency is concerned, which is crucial, we are also going to restore the proper and smooth functioning of the organisation there, so that it is trustworthy to the consumer, that the consumer knows that there is someone who controls the food he feeds his family, who feeds his children, and that body is reliable and the food is safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the First Municipal School of Psych. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Chironi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am pleased with the development of the manager and the issue of the staff that was vital to the FFD, and I will point out again that despite the dramatic sub-delegation, FFET was extremely reliable and, indeed, is a diamond in public administration, recognised by all international organisations. I say again that it is no coincidence that there are no food scandals in Greece. Despite the fact that the state does not have the financial capacity to do the checks carried out by the German state or the Danish or Belgian state, we are one of the only countries that do not have this dramatic phenomenon of international food scandals. However, the EFET also controls imported foods. Furthermore, I repeat that when we voted for Law 4512/2018 and because, in fact, I was head of the FFD as Deputy Minister and was responsible for it, there was a commitment from all the co-legislative ministries that there would be committees and that the overlaps would be stopped. The Presidential Decree establishing the EFSI was defined as abolishing all functions. Nevertheless, the other ministries - I say it openly in the House - continued to have doctors, chemists and various other social groups, who are already part of the FET which is an interdisciplinary organisation, and who are in conflict. I would like to ask again, then, if there was a commitment from the acceding ministers that they would stop this. However, until at least recently a new administration has been introduced to the FFET, my information suggests that this issue of overlapping has not happened at all. There are strong resistances from the co-responsible ministries, who do not want to lose control, which is already a waste of resources. It is absurd, for example, that the Ministry of Economy and Development publishes for concentrated circular milk, which was completely contradictory and contrary to the circular issued by the FET. So these phenomena, which do too much harm to the body, continue to break down human and financial resources for conflict control by a large number of organisations and create the obligation of the professional, who, on the one hand, enter into a committee and, on the other hand, get in the other, they do huge damage and, in fact, we do not have the result that we want. So on the subject of overlapping what has happened in this period and what is to be done in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u93	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Chironi, Mr. Colleague, you know that the issue of overlaps and relationships with the other ministries has a history. This story, therefore, with the wrong manipulations followed by the administration of the FET and by the political leadership, led to a duplication of responsibilities. I think it is inappropriate to discuss the past. I recently had a meeting with my colleague, the Minister of Health, Mr Blonde, and the Secretary-General, Mr Bascozo. The meeting was held at the Ministry of Rural Development. We discussed the points where misinterpretations had been created. We have decided to set up a committee. It has been set up and the committee is moving, so that we can all sit together, as is reasonable, to see where the co-responsibility exists, where the initiative of one of them is, which reaches its limits, where the other's limits begins. Because, as you know, health provisions are, obviously, of the Ministry of Health. Somewhere it stops the food and other health provisions begin. That's the limits we have to make. These are only in one way, when someone sits on a table in a good mood, puts on the legislation and know-how that everyone has, puts on everyone's capabilities, the workshops he has and the practice he knows, which he has developed - and experience is a tool - he discusses all this and sets its limits. So that's what we're doing now. There is a very good relationship - an excellent relationship, I would say - that I hope that very soon the misunderstandings of the past will be resolved and everything will work properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, too. We move to the eighth, with number 346/11-2-2019, a timely question for the second question of the MP Drama of the New Democracy, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Reimbursements of potato growers in Lekanopedi Lower Nicholopovo Drama”. Please have the floor, Mr Kyriazidis, to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u96	Good morning, Mr. President. Welcome, Minister. We are having the first public debate together and it is, I would say, pleasant and I believe it is also effective. Minister, you have completed four years of country's governance this year. We have entered the fifth year with regard to the time period - I mean for the growing seasons in the region of Lecanopidia - where potato growers in that area have been forgotten. I would say this product, cultivation is characterized as a monoculture. It's a matter. There was a harmful fungus. I've tried for four years. I have sent you your questions - your answer, perhaps your ministry will also assume a responsibility, although initially it was committed to joining the de minimis programme or amending the ELGA regulation, in order to seek solutions for a, if you like, compensation there for potato producers. I do wonder why your ministry has not been looking for a solution for so long. I think that's possible. My winterers try another way to regain an income and the state through their "cheque" deprives them. It is really unfair, Mr Minister, that farmers, whose farmers have suffered a phytosanitary harm, should be deprived of their property, if you like, of the thousands of acres. At the same time, however, there is a loss of income due to a lack of cultivation. Really, I'm sorry I need to come back. I've been having the conversation for the first time. I said it first. I believe that you have an answer, a possibility of strengthening these growers and their families, who really experience unique moments. I've recently made a report on the floods in the Lefkanoped. In June there will be a withdrawal of water and cultivation capacity, if you like. The existing grain and clover crops have been lost. I am also waiting for a reply from you, if you have it, but I insist on the issue of the human treatment and compensation of the particular potato growers who have been deprived of their fields. I believe that the state should at long last demonstrate a prosperousness so that they can cope in this far-reaching region. It is only because they are there to "remunerate" them in different ways. Unfortunately, it cannot be done in terms of your ministry, your government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u97	You're welcome. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, we're talking about the sarkraut in the potato or the potato cancer. It is a fungus that appeared in the Municipal Session of the Municipality of Kato Nerokopi since 2011. It's an organization, a quarantine fungus. Since 2011 - I am again stressing the chronology, in 2011 - when a pathogen fungus was found, a quarantine body, was immediately taken by the services to place the area in quarantine. In fact, a programme was adopted in 2013 to define varieties of potatoes that are resistant to this pathogen. This programme cost EUR 215,700 - the cost of the Greek State - and it concluded that there were one or two types that are more resistant to this pathogen. So, then, that's the story. From there on, land, fields can be cultivated, but not solanacea that reproduce the organism. Apart from the fact that there will be no production, they reproduce the organism. This means that a quarantine is placed in an area. Other crops can be cultivated. On the question of compensation for ELGA, you know very well that the Agency does not have in the insurance regulation, and that is what we are saying today - from 1987, which is the insurance regulation, the compensation for pathogens of quarantine, even if they are quarantine. It is not provided for in its Rules of Procedure. The regulation is now amended. By decision of the ELGA Board of Directors it has now become an amendment procedure. With this government, it has been in the process of amending and all this is a very good proposal, the quarantine being compensated. Let us see it and put it to discussion now and make a regulation that will work for the next thirty years. However, these losses again cannot be included in a State aid programme, why? For precisely the damage is not from natural disasters or from unfavourable circumstances. As you know, de minimis has a specific recital. They cannot be given at the will of a minister or anything. If they do not have a specific justification, which they must have, they will be regarded as illegal agricultural aid and they will simply ask us back in a few years' time. I'll tell you in my denture, not to eat the time, and then for the particular parcels.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u99	Again, Mr Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u100	Minister, on 17 February 2017, two years ago, your predecessor's reply was as follows: ‘How can there be insurance cover? If we are doing proportionate studies, because we have now been in this process, for many risks that have not been predicted to date, to see how through this procedure - in the next phase, I would say - the possibility can be haunted for insurance informative farmers to receive corresponding compensation." He goes on to say: 'But here we have a problem. And this problem, Mr Colleague, as you can see, can only be dealt with by one procedure. You say that. This procedure is the one they know in the rural area. It is the de minimis process, an aid that requires two things. Firstly, to draw up a dossier on what is really happening with regard to damage and the second - and most importantly - to have the country's budgetary conditions for granting such aid." You say that there is now the financial area. I see, moreover, that the EUR 109 million de minimis programme which has been given to the government is being used elsewhere, not to exogenous factors provided for in the programme. You've given backup in other directions. I do not want to say, because you will indeed be exposed as both a government and as a country. But, Minister, I will have to do this to the European Commissioner. It is not the case - I say it clearly and clearly - because it should have been something that should have been done for two years now. My Government did so in 2012 and 2013 and in 2014 in the sense of the compensation of these fines, if you like, agricultural land. They are the inhabitants of the Lecade of any compensation. There is a possibility, Minister. We've seen what's happening to other places. We have seen how the compensation is paid. And you're doing well. I'm telling you, honestly. But on the other hand, there are farmers whose entire property, their rural area, lies in this area. You are now telling me that Benacio has made its programme - it was then abandoned and nobody is involved - and it has proposed two varieties whose supply cannot be achieved because of the high cost. You have to understand. If you do the analysis, you'll see. It's not a good thing. But the state comes, that is, you, the state, the government and it goes on to a mandate - that is, in fact - without the will of the farmers. He has to make a recompense. You must do it, as is the case with archaeological sites, etc. That the state is coming for reasons of public interest to demand whatever it has to do with our fellow citizens, but a way out is given. I wait sincerely, but I am then obliged to resort elsewhere, Minister. Of course, I know that we will be both a country and a government exposed, but it cannot go any further, because I tell you that the conditions on the Lefkanoside are unique. Winter begins in September and ends in May. I told you before that if it broke the barrier on the Lefkapedi - a second barrier is wanted in the area of Lecanopedi - a village - fort located in the center of the Lefkanopedi would be lost. It's flooded. You've been informed. I've reported to you. The rural club up there was directed to you. So I say to you, Minister, that you show a sensitivity. It is not possible from the government's point of view to ignore or to do that you do not know the whole problem. I think we should have a positive response to give them a breath. I'd say it's a topic of breath.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u101	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, all the aids for the replacement of the incomes of the Greek producers which have so far been granted are perfectly legitimate. I'm stressing it. It is within the framework of the European Rules of Procedure until the last word.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u103	The de minimis has another character. Do you want me to bring you examples? We'll expose them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u104	Here, in this particular case we are talking about - it is the continuation of today's debate - the problem has started since 2011. It was chosen to be a waste of power, if you want, in my opinion, in 2013 with EUR 215,000 that could have been done for the people of the region much more efficiently. We are reaching today that the area remains quarantine, but other varieties are cultivated. But then the choice could be in another direction. I'm saying this so we don't forget that. It is not the current government's fault. That's what I'm trying to say. From that point on, after so many years, since it is not haunted in another, legally, the aid, we need to think more forward and see how we can help people in the region to diversify their cultivation, to overcome this programme - scientifically there are ways, economically we can find the ways - and to restore the potato of Neroscope to its place and reputation in the Greek market. It is unfair for local residents to discuss whether they will get a penny of de minimis or will not get...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u105	Should they not have that possibility?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u106	...and let a situation perpetuate. I, first as a scientist and then as Minister, this debate seems to me unsuccessful. What we need to do for the area is to bring back the reputation of the Newroscope potato where she deserves it. That is why there are resources and scientific methods. The fact that we have lost almost ten years since 2011 is another class discussion. Since 2011, it is an organisation that is a quarantine organisation. If potato were to continue - you know better, and much better, the producers who are listening to us - would always be destroyed in the area with the spread of the pathogen. From the beginning that the area was quarantined, concrete measures were envisaged. In 2010 and 2011, as you rightly say, these measures were not taken. We can do it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u107	But, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Cryazides, please. This is not a television dialogue. The Rules of Procedure do not allow us to have a television conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, we are talking about an area that is sensitive...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u110	Good. They are the views of the Minister. What can we do? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u111	We can have a dialogue...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u112	Minister, do you have anything else to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u113	To close this issue, Mr Colleague, the region has been affected by another type of damage this year. We could see a legitimate crop aid that has been affected in the region in other ways, not for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, too. We proceed with the debate of the ninth under number 356/12-2-2019 on a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on "the attempt to prevent trade union activity and redundancies at Piraeus Bank". The current question will be answered by the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Ahtsoglou. Please, Mr Delis, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, as is well known, mass and multiformal racing movements of workers at Piraeus Bank have been manifested in recent times. The cause of these mobilisations is the project of Piraeus Bank Management to dismantle its part of the red loans, i.e. proceed to mass redundancies of workers employed in these pan-Hellenic branches in its stores, but also in its subsidiaries. The same time ago, the same Bank went to do with its guards and cleaners. In the past few years, therefore, the workers in the red loan segments - a thousand two hundred are about all of them - heard the managers of Piraeus Bank distributing craftly that either they will either be fired directly or they will be transferred to private companies, the well-known 'funds' - 'kicks' said all this - which will be undertaken to manage the packages of red loans, i.e. blackmailing and putting the auction knife in the popular houses. You know, the bell does not only strike for the employees at Piraeus Bank, and it is important that the employees of the other banks listen to it and not be reassured. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] It is clear, then, Minister, that the new round of bank restructuring plans has been launched by Piraeus Bank, which of course means new redundancies for workers who want to get rid of red loans. For all this to pass, as is well known, a cemetery silence is required in the workplace, and therefore the Piraeus Bank Management, along with the climate of terrorism and insecurity that it maintains within the workplace, has recently informed the trade unions of workers working in Piraeus that, henceforth, trade union action to inform workers in working hours will not be allowed, even on the grounds of management and the relevant legislation, i.e. Law No 1264/1982. Such a democracy in the workplace! We have two questions for you, Minister: What do you intend to do as a government to protect trade union activity at Piraeus Bank and not just, of course? And finally, what will your ministry do to the bank's potential or rather to the bank's expected effort to break the red loan section together, of course, with the staff employed there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u116	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u117	Mr Delis, with your question, you give me the opportunity to address a very serious issue concerning the infringement of labour rights as a whole in the banking sector, but also the effort we make with the Ministry of Labour and the Labour Inspectorate to combat it. We have said at the first moment that there are no unbaptised and areas of employers' immunity, as they existed for the previous government, and at the very first time we said that the infractional nature of the labour market is not, as the dominant narrative wants to present, the very small and small businesses, but mainly the large companies and especially the Banks. How are we trying to tackle the problem of bank infraction as a whole? In two ways - you'll understand why they're specifically for banks -- with two levers. One lever is legislation, that is to say, legislation that covers gaps in the framework of the protection of workers' rights, in order to shield it. The rules we have put in place for overtime, for the electronic manifestation of overtime and for the observance of hours are now very characteristic. The banks first photograph these arrangements and, above all, they start and comply. There are, of course, reactions from the employers' side. Take a look at the other legislative issue that we brought about in relation to contractors. Again, I think that, above all, someone who knows a little about the workplace understands that this is mainly about the question of banks. However, with the second part, the audit, we have targeted in particular the large businesses, especially the banks. I think the most characteristic example is that the biggest fine ever imposed by the existence, since the birth of the Labour Inspectorate, was during our term of office at Piraeus Bank, a fine of EUR 1.630,000 for about a hundred workers who had been in undeclared overtime. Now for the specifics you are asking me, first of all, in terms of blocking trade union action, in fact on our part, by the Labour Inspectorate - I show behind me, because it is also the Special Secretary of the APRC with me - we have received knowledge of this incident on 25 January. In other words, the association notified the APRC that it was going to intervene with a trade union in the bank and is being hampered. S.H.I.E.L.D. was immediately mobilized to go to the space. Before the RDP arrives, the trade unions had already entered the workplace and, as far as I know, they normally went ahead with their trade union action. So the incident is over. That is, I think, a good example of the association's cooperation with the Labour Inspectorate. We have said many times that the APRC alone, if it does not have direct information from the trade unions and direct communication with the unions, cannot work. I think this shows the good results it might have. The fact that the problem has ended before the APR does not mean anything. It shows that it is important to be able to communicate with the Labour Inspectorate with the club. I will close and say two more things in my denture on the issue of the so-called secession of the red-loans sector. In fact, the association told us that there is a dispersion of this information. With the intervention of the Secretary-General of the Ministry, we asked for a three-way meeting, because from what the workers told us, the employer was not meeting the workers to inform them. In the tripartite on the initiative of the Ministry's Secretary General, the company stated that it does not have such a plan. It has so far been placed there that it has no plan to move to a secession of the industry. Obviously, I cannot guarantee that. I'm just saying what he said at the moment. We and our control mechanisms are being activated to implement the provisions laid down in the law in any case and to protect jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u119	Thank you. I listened carefully, Minister. Indeed, you recognised the great inconsistency that exists in the field of large enterprises, where employers' terrorism strikes red many times. You have spoken about the protection measures that your government is going to take, you have spoken about the relevant legislation you bring - we will see when and how you will bring it - you have spoken about contractors who, of course, live and reign and even expand, Minister, using the legislative framework that you maintain and you are enriching. You also spoke of a fine at Piraeus Bank. I'd say this kind of fines are probably for these big bank agencies. And I now come to the main issue of the question, on the question of trade union action. Okay that day may have solved the issue, but this announcement, the oral update, anyway, of the Bank's Administration to the trade unions has not been lifted. It's still true. Of course, the question of trade union action will be defended first and foremost by the workers themselves. And here, of course, they also need your support, but I fear that they will not find it so much, because it has been proved by your government that it can very well close your eyes, when thousands or rather hundreds of times, but also thousands of redundancies occur literally under your eyes, when some workers try to strike, for example using your legislative framework. I come to the main issue that we raised with our question about the not-famous - because it is almost certain, Minister, that it will go ahead - restructuring the banking system, and we wonder how you do not know it, because your government has agreed on it in the third memorandum, as the previous ones had agreed, to transfer red loans to the funds, to the cords. It is a written commitment by the government to the institutions. And not just that, it is also a requirement, of course, of the Greek Industrial Association, so that these "barbarics", as they say, may be taken away from the Banks so that they can lend the industrialists and the big traders, not the small ones who are kneeling from the tax raid and their competition with the large ones. And together, of course, with the weights of the red loans that the Banks want to throw away, they find an opportunity to lay off, get rid of them, to fly thousands of bankers out of work, to reduce their costs, either through the temporary transfer of bank staff to funds or to various contractors that, as we have said, are kept with your Government, without working rights and with a very direct, very immediate perspective for most of them, their dismissal. It is simply the Piraeus Bank that starts it first, it goes first, it advertises it and it grows it in the workplaces. All in all, this is a serious matter because, according to the publications on the so-called 'bank restructuring', it concerns the ten thousand bank officials. So proof that no Memorandum has come to an end. Everything continues, normally for some of the workers, for most of them, becomes even more barbaric, becoming lasting. Finally, the issue is not a matter of concern to the auctions that are coming and to the fact that the blackmail will be generalised and that the truce around the popular houses will be tightened up. So on this issue - and I am closing down, Madam President - on the issue of the impending redundancies of thousands of bankers, banks will simply make use of your legislative framework to proceed to these redundancies. And you have a very big political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u120	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Delis, I'm gonna have to clear up some things, maybe, because they're not familiar. I didn't talk about legislation that we're bringing. I talked about legislation that we have already brought. She's been voted on by the JRC. These provisions, to which I have referred, I think the JRC has voted for them. I specifically referred to the legislation on the observance of working hours, which we have introduced since the summer of 2017, has the Greek Parliament voted on with quite a large consensus of several parties, which it has put forward? The electronic manifestation of overtime, which has led in a year to more than double the overtime declared in the system. So pay these overtime. The messages that come from the bank workers are that they are now on schedule at 7 p.m. In other words, workers are leaving with absolute rigour, precisely because of the new institutional framework, but also because of the control action of the Labour Inspectorate and the fines that this puts. The second question concerning contractors is also something we have already legislated about. We have, in other words, thought that the contractor - in our case the bank - has an absolute responsibility for the contractor's employees for wages, for compensation for dismissal. That is to say, the whole responsibility for respecting labour law lies with the contractor, in order to prevent the contractor from getting away from his obligations as a real employer. I am not sure if the JRC voted on the contractor issue. I have a reservation on that. So I'm talking about legislation, which we've already brought. It has already been passed by the House and it begins to work. I'm not saying they've complied to God! If I said that, I'd be from somewhere else. But we see trends in compliance slowly. They're starting to conform. Now, whether they're messy or not the control arm. The Labour Inspectorate has since 2015 carried out a thousand to date six hundred eighty-eight checks in banking shops across the country. It has imposed fines of more than EUR 4 million. Only in 2018 have we carried out two hundred thirty checks and imposed fines of 700,000 euros on banks all over the country. We have also taken action to stop an operation when it makes two successive infringements of labour law. And thanks to this measure, we imposed closure of a bank for three days. Piraeus Bank was again. These days the Labour Inspectorate won a legal dispute, where a bank had insulted another bank, the closure of a shop again due to a breach of labour law. And the Labour Inspectorate has won the court dispute, and the bank will close its store and pay the fine of about EUR 200,000 that we imposed. I would like to say that of all of these elements I think it appears to us that the banking sector is not a sector, an area of immunity, an area of exceptions to respect for labour law and we prove it in practice. All I'm saying was not from 2015 before. I think that these facts speak for themselves. I repeat on the issue of secession that the information we have so far is that they do not have such a plan. We will monitor it and observe the law, guaranteed by the law of the job. As for the issue of auctions, what is being proposed by the government over the next period is an overall framework for replacing the protection of first homes with the exact same level of protection that has been in place before. In addition, the housing loan subsidy is added to this. That is to say, it is no longer just the adjustment of the loan, as we know it, through a 'haircut', an extension of a instalment, etc., but the state will grant a special budget of 200 million of the housing loan to the people's households. I therefore think that we have a protection framework - we will be presenting it with the relevant ministers - which fully ensures the protection of the first home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u122	Thank you. We move to the tenth question under number 337/5-2-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on “Problems of workers in business of interest”. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, that they are constantly asking questions with serious problems faced by workers in the workplace and that you repeat the same thing, that we have 'confidence', this reveals that these arrangements must not be the ones that must, in order that they can actually meet requests, problems or not be created, that this immunity and this working jungle in the workplace does not exist. And we say this because you have rejected many of the JRC's legal proposals, many amendments, which just come to address these issues. But they are not treated with your own policy, which you are exercising. Today we have tabled another question - if you will allow me, Madam President - for the heavy and unhealthy work of civil servants. I have just been informed that they have been occupied at the Ministry of Finance in Karagiorgios Serbia. You have declared lack of responsibility for this question. However, the government is united and must, in the face of this world that has so far received the allowance for unhealthy work, say what you are going to do because it is abolished from 1-32019. It is therefore Mr Chakalotos' duty to contact him - to go there now, to tell the workers what they will do. Today, Minister, they are attending here by the ZOURA Operational Association, members of the administration. And they want to hear the answers to the questions we have submitted: What measures will you take to ensure that the workers' trademarks are directly guaranteed and that their rights related to them are guaranteed, such as access to health services, the granting of the benefit by the OAED, if you intend to ensure the granting of an exceptional allowance by the OAED, what measures will you take to secure employment rights, pay the wages paid to all workers, the health and safety conditions at work, stop the revenge, unfavourable, abusive and illegal treatment of members of the board of directors of the union, who, as you know, have to pay for more than nine months? Their last payment was made a hundred days ago and related to May 2018. So this attitude towards trade unions shows that there is a hell in the workplace, that you, with your support, are unfortunately backed by the abolition of rights, trade union freedoms, democratic rights, which have been won with hard struggles. We're waiting for your answers. The workers are here, too. They're waiting to go to the workplace and say what the government's position is for all of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u124	Thank you. Mrs Ahchioglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Katsotis, no one has said that the labour market in Greece has been regulated. No one said this, or that there is normality in the labour market, that there is no infringability or that all labour rights are respected. No one said that. And the questions you bring prove that there are still many problems in too many companies. However, that does not mean that the arrangements we bring or the work that we do with the Labour Inspectorate are not working. I do not at all agree with this approach that you have - we have discussed it again - that you zero the effectiveness of the effort, which is tangible and you zero it. In my opinion, this also sows a fatalism for the workers, an impression for the workers that nothing can be won. The fact that overtime was more than doubled overtime, means that people who worked up to black, overtime and did not keep their hours, were now paid overtime, i.e. double, 50% increase from their wages or that they returned home earlier. This cannot be said to mean that it does not matter. The fact that undeclared work in the four years that we are government has fallen by 10 points in the high-injurious industries cannot be said to be of no importance and without meaning. They are workers, who were not declared, who were no longer insured are no longer declared and insured. The fact that three hundred and seventy thousand new jobs have been created are people who have found jobs. There is no way that these results can be zeroed. And I could go on. As many times as I meet employers, their biggest reactions concern the issue of hours, the statement of overtime and the question of contractors. That's where they're pushing me too hard. These two regulations disturb them more than anything else in the legislative framework. I think that shows something, especially in the APRC. I should now like to say to the 'Zura' interest firms, which is a truly, multi-comprehensive undertaking, and which has dealt with us too many times. During 2018, the Labour Inspectorate has carried out twenty-eight audits on the "ZOURA" interests and has submitted twenty-one fines for infringements found amounting to EUR 71,000. It has become eight tripartite in recent years, especially with these companies, namely the employer company, workers and the Ministry of Labour with the Secretary-General, and we now have the following issues: as far as this issue is concerned. In the last tripartite, which took place in December 2018, the company was asked to submit a repayment plan, which it submitted and audited in respect of its compliance. In other words, the Labour Inspectorate is constantly monitoring the company's compliance with this plan. Where non-compliance is found, it will impose fines. It's a very recent plan, and we're watching his compliance. However, I would like to refer specifically to the issue of labels, which is the most important one, I think. The company owes too much to the insurance funds. He owes a lot of contributions to the insurance funds. The Ministry through the CRL, the Centre for the Collection of Insurance Debts, imposed a commitment on the company’s bank accounts, a complaint against the company’s managers and a confiscation of property. It is precisely because of the commitment of the bank accounts that the company no longer has the opportunity to submit the SDR, the Analytical Periodic Declaration, which all companies are obliged to submit, so that at the moment employees are not insured, that they do not have to pay their marks. Normally, the procedure stipulates that workers should make individual declarations to the CRL in order to identify them. Because this whole process is completely unfair to the workers, who are not to blame for everything that is going on, we have taken the initiative, we have cross-checked their data through the "ERGANI" and today they will be sent to the employers Taxation Acts. This means that under the law it has the possibility of an employer within thirty days to object that after thirty days workers will see their insurance cover restored completely and retrospectively. For all the time they're working, they'll be retroactively covered for their health, for their pension coverage, or they'll normally count their meanings. And just as you know, thanks to this cover, they'll be able to receive a surcharge if they make a work-sharing and so on. So this issue is completely restored, with the intervention of the Ministry of Labour, without workers having to do something about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u126	Here, Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u127	Madam Minister, we have nothing to do with it. You maintain all the memorial measures of both previous governments and now, so that the workers actually live the work jungle today, in 2019. You said overtime. Tell me, have you changed anything from this overtime overturn? You have not changed it, keep it as it is, thus benefiting the employer from the reduced remuneration paid to the worker. It's just a matter of that. The second is the issue of the SGP. You have come and legislated the SDRs, saying that if the employer does not submit an SPR, he does not get the signals, the workers are not insured. So far, there has been no such thing. Until now IKA has confirmed the work of the workers, made an act of imposing upon the employer, the worker was insured and there was a period when the employer could object. However, Minister, this issue with ZOURA is not present. For two years, workers have been fighting under very difficult conditions, with trumpets, with the people of the factory that go with guns and blackmail them, i.e. with a jungle in the workplace. You have been denounced, Minister, that the conditions of health and safety at work are not complied with. The minimum conditions are not complied with. They've been to the hospitals, they've been disabled. And yet, here, this hell continues. They've been unpaid all these years, all these months. Nine months how can these people meet the needs of their families? Of course the meetings were many with both the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Labour and the APRC and with the Secretary-General of Citizen Protection, so that he could actually intervene in this 'trabucki', the employer's mafia tactics towards workers. Of course, above all, you have not made any intervention in terms of his attitude to the administration of the Association when you say that you are protecting trade union freedoms. What do you have to say about that? How are these management members protected, you know very well that they are elected and immigrant workers? And yet, this is what the employer is using and makes them more discernible and while paying the rest of the workers, they do not pay them. How, then, do you make use of all the tools you have in your hands, so that you can actually be able here - on the basis of this law that still remains the law - to tell this gentleman or anyone else that violates these minimum trade union freedoms, to comply at least with what is still left? Minister, because we have said that this is the workers and they are listening, you will only recognize five months' insurance cover for the attachment, even though the Citizens' Counselor with an entire study asks you that what you are doing is beyond and outside the entire legislative framework that exists to date and that you should cover the entire insurance period. But you still do not accept this, you have rejected it. You rejected an institution, which you are defending, which you say is very good, and you, therefore, are not acceptable to this conclusion of the Citizens' Counsellor. On this basis, we do not tire at all, we want the problems of workers to be solved. And that's what we're doing here. That's what we ask you to do, solve the problems, can you? And you can't and you don't want to. That is our view. And that's what we call workers to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u128	Thank you. Come on, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u129	Mr Katsotis, the last thing we have is the political will to serve employers. And if it were even one of the day-to-day meetings that they are asking for, it could be noted that mainly because you know that there is no serious representation from the Higher Trade Union Organization in the country, in fact the Ministry has taken a role, to support the rights of workers towards the LFO at each meeting. Anyway, we're getting past this. You said that we have not changed anything from the Memorandum of Elimination of Labour Rights. It's not like that. We have restored the Collective Work Agreements in the country, you know that. The Collective Conventions had been suspended during the memorial period. And this government brought them back to the summer of 2018 and they have started operating again in the country. We've abolished the embarrassing, underpaid pay for young people. We've raised the minimum wage. And you can't be sure that right now, it was under a National General Collective Convention, it would reach the levels of 650 euros. I do not know, the pay for overtime work, has changed the period of the memoranda, not for redundancies, but for overtime work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u130	He's down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u131	The pay for the overtime job, I said. Not the redundancy compensation, but the pay for overtime work. I want to say something else now. Non-deposit of an ADR is a punishable instrument for the company, because it deprives her of her insurance information.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u132	And the worker pays it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u133	I'll go on. It deprives her of insurance information. You are right, however, as regards the fact - and we have said it in relation to these workers - that, as a result, in addition to the problems which may arise in the company, which are being committed to their accounts, as I have said, the confiscation of the property, etc., in this case workers are still working and not being insured. That is why we have taken the initiative, as I told you, we have cross-checked the evidence and these people, I repeat, will be completely covered for the whole year for which they have worked. Health, pension time, will be able to receive OAED allowances and will be able to receive a work-sharing allowance if they make a commitment. So there is no doubt in this matter. I shall also look at the possibility of making a horizontal regulation on this issue, so that it does not recur for other workers, for another company, namely, the non-insurance of workers, because of this involvement. With regard to health and safety issues, I would like to say that, after the audits carried out in particular on health and safety, twenty-three fines of EUR 33,100 and I mean only for ZOURA operations, as well as monthly reports of accidents in the company. I therefore think that in practice we are also proving with the APRC, but above all with the initiative we are taking on insurance that we are experiencing over the problems and taking concrete solutions, even step by step, so that we can shield labour rights. You're right from now on. You have once again pointed out to me the issue of the five-month limit on work-sharing. It is an issue that we can now consider and bring a more serious solution now that we have been relieved of permanent, close Memorandum supervision. I therefore hold this point and I will come back soon on this issue of the five-month limit on employment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u134	We move to the last for today, the twelfth under number 315/29-1-2019, the second time question from the Independent MEP I, Mr. Spyridon Lykoudis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on 'the conditions of the migrants' living and working conditions in New Manolad after the fire'. Mr Lykoudis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I have tabled this question about a month ago and after three postponements we are debating it today. I am not saying that as a negative observation. On the other hand, I understand the pressure you have on time, but I say it, because perhaps in this month, issues may have been resolved, or the resolution of some issues has been launched, so that what I ask you, or what I tell you, is not on the basis of time. But that will be judged by your answer. You know well that in June 2018 a great fire broke out in the New Manola area, burned all the camps of the immigrants who lived there and created a very big problem in relation to their own work presence. I have been informed and looking for it, and I have seen that soon afterward, in other words, very quickly - and that is positive - you have been in the area. You have shown in particular, again in the light of my research, a good mood, to solve problems and you have referred to the need for financial support for immigrants, an effort to find accommodation to stay and also, to find a way to rebuild their papers that have been burned down in the fire. Nevertheless, several months later, these issues have not been resolved. On the contrary, on the basis of what I know so far, all the odds and prospects are at a slower pace in order to resolve all the issues. In view of all this, I ask you: First, is there any timetable for the completion of the work, so that this assistance can go ahead and be granted to the affected? Secondly, who is this international organisation, which, according to your legal office, exists to help resolve this? Thirdly, what is the Ministry's concern about the living conditions of workers there, of the migrants affected? Is there a way to stay in rough accommodation? Have these been found or are they going to be found? Fourthly, is there any legislation on the insurance of these workers, which is currently without any support from the time they do not have their papers, with which they were legally workers and which were burnt by fire?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u136	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to begin with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lykoudis, with your question, you highlight the Manola phenomenon. I think that this phenomenon should be approached from two sides. One side is what the Ministry of Labour does, what he has done, what he has done and what the Labour Inspectorate should do to solve specific problems. The other aspect of the problem is, I think, the political position in the Manola phenomenon, because you remember that many years ago, when it had become the incident with the shooting of migrant land workers by an employer, because they dared to ask for their success at that time the migrant land workers had come out the current Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr. Georgiadis, and said: 'Okay, there were two shots in the air that accidentally found the workers'. Then I would also remind you that our country was condemned by the European Court of Human Rights, because the decision taken by the National Court did not justify migrant land workers and our country was condemned for infringing basic rights and human rights. I would like to say that in the political perspective of the problem there are two clear dividing lines. It is the neoliberal approach to labour, which does not see workers and considers parts of workers to be absolutely invisible, such as immigrants, such as workers in cleanliness - the phenomenon of Kuneva was also one of them - as workers in contractors. And it is our own approach, which says that our work is not only to try to restore the framework for protecting the work that has been "drought" in the memorial period, but to see how we will also fill gaps in the system, blind points that existed before, because Manola and Kuneva phenomena were long before the monuments came to the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u138	What have you done for them, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u139	Mr. Davakis, please! You are intervening in a conversation that you do not participate in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u140	Every day I answer with very specific things and I would be happy to tell you what we have done. Two laws, with at least thirty articles, each laying down rules for the maintenance of hours, for the declaration of overtime, for the payment of wages through a bank, for the unilaterally damaging change in working conditions in the event of non-paying workers, for the reintroduction of collective bargaining in the country, for an increase in the minimum wage to 650 euros and for the abolition of the minimum wage, rules on the maintenance of contractors, a Labour Inspectorate with an increased capacity of 20%, when Mr. Brutsis had abolished two hundred people...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u141	Madam Minister, you're answering my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u142	I'd love to, but he caused me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u143	But to my question, you are answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u144	Is there a check on how these apply? That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Davakis, please! I don't think you're a rookie and you don't know the process. What are these now? Are you asking the Minister questions while he answers another colleague? What's that? Madam Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u146	To come to this particular issue now, what exactly have we done with Manola so far and what we are in front of doing. Throughout 2018 we carried out thirty-five checks in the area of Ilias Prefecture and in the packing and in operations in Manolada, and imposed 42,200 euros. From the first moment of the fire incident, we went to the side of the workers, just to reflect the situation. The big problem with the whole case there is that in their vast majority these workers are irregularly staying. Therefore, this created a lasting involvement in every effort we have made either to provide financial support or to find another allowance that could be granted to them to solve their first living needs. Because, as you know, it is impossible for a public service to approve the granting, transfer of state money to irregular residents, i.e. people who do not have basic elements, AMCAs and other elements, to the Greek public. So, at the moment, the most appropriate method we have found is as follows: The Special Secretary of the Labour Inspectorate has submitted a petition to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, asking the public prosecutors to investigate the illegal and particularly burdensome employment conditions of three hundred and fifty-five workers, which will also bring criminal sanctions. This report enables the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay to obtain a residence permit for humanitarian reasons for migrant land workers who have been engaged in these particularly abusive working conditions. Therefore, in this way, I believe that we will quickly be granted the residence permit to the irregular residents, and so we will be able to unlock all the other facilities that we can provide them. Since this issue is resolved - I think with this initiative we have taken, it will be resolved - we will then be able to move forward with financial aid through the OAS. Therefore, through the procedure that we have initiated and the assistance of the public prosecutors, we will be able to help the affected. We cannot just stay on this because the new period of agricultural activity that is culminating in the Manola region is beginning very soon. We have designed methodically the intervention of the Inspection Corps in the area. Already the AEM is in contact with the Amalada Labour Centre, so that our action can be developed in cooperation with workers' and migrant organisations, to carry out targeted checks at the time when we have the blooming of rural activity in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Lykoudis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, your answer has something to do with what you can do now, or now you are seeking to do on this matter. One issue arises here: since June a six-month period has passed. What exactly happened all this time? I am telling you that this question has not been tabled, to identify responsibilities, but to see whether we can resolve issues, which for the time being are unsolved. Of course, it is important for the prosecutors to intervene and enable us, through their intervention, to find a way to resolve the issue of irregular immigrants. But there is one issue. When you - who have recognized it - went there from the very first moment and said that you are on the side of these people to help directly their way of living and it has been a semester and now we are waiting, with the help of the public prosecutors, to see what we are going to do, there is an issue that needs an answer. Secondly, I asked you before, if it has been addressed by the Ministry to an international organisation, to help - if not to help directly - the way in which the problem of their damaged documents will be solved. Possibly, this is not so easy for the Ministry to do if it does. I would therefore like to ask who this international organisation is. Thirdly, I would like to ask whether the information is true that the thirty-five immigrants, who were called to testify to their testimony, in relation to how the fire took place - how this fire lighted - are the first to take documents to deport them. I don't know at all how much this is based on concrete evidence. But because there is, I want you to give me a responsible answer. I would also like to ask you this: How can the state help directly so that there can be a solution to their daily lives? Is there any chance they'll go to the respective area of a container to stay? If the owner does not allow the owner to have a container there, what can the state do to resolve this matter? Because that might exist too. Do not forget that the owners of these sites were the ones who shot in 2013 and there was this whole story, which led to the International Courts the country and its conviction. I would like to say, therefore, that, beyond everything else, there is an objective and immediate issue. What about the immigrants from Bangladesh, who work in the area, who are on the road, who have no place to live and who, in these weather circumstances, suffer? Apparently, you know that. How will they be rediscovered how they will function more permanently and legally on the basis of and the publication of their documents?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u149	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lykoudis, what we have done since we went up to some time ago: Since the first time we went, we have taken care of the next day - if not the same night - to reach people with first need: clothing, blankets, tents to stay, chemical toilets for the first time, etc. We covered this part immediately. I will not hide from you that, from there on, we have faced too many problems, difficulties in implementing other measures, which we would like to take, to support them. To say, of course, the law stipulates that, normally, the employer must in such cases ensure residence for his workers, that is to say, a place where they will sleep at night under human conditions. I do not hide from you that there was a great difficulty working with the municipality on these issues. That is to say, for our part, we have sent the aid and the municipality has not given us an elementary space so that these containers can be installed. Because we have looked into this so that we can solve the housing situation, at least in the first phase. I can tell you what I took a step - step by step: I had located a field in the area where I asked the mayor to give it to us and did not give it to us. We had spotted another field in which we had installed it for a while, and then the employer went and took it out of there. There was, that is, a constant backwards, in which, unfortunately, local government did not contribute our efforts to resolve these issues in the first place. As far as the issue of financial aid is concerned, which we also tried to see how it would happen from the outset, it was constantly interrupted, it was blocked, by the fact that these three hundred fifty people are irregularly resident in the country. So no public body could go into financial support in any way. We tried to see this possibility through the International Organisation for Migration, IMO. However, this process will eventually be delayed much longer than the one we have chosen, which will be much faster, i.e. through the petitions in the prosecutor's office, to be granted a residence permit for humanitarian reasons. I think that's gonna happen. And this will now unlock for us, from the very next day, the granting by the OAS of financial and other social aid. It's not just the support from the OAED. If we resolve this, if we unlock this, people will be able to take, for example, the Social Solidarity Income, that is, they will be able to join a series of social protection measures that they are currently unable to take because they are irregularly resident. Overall, however, the work issue in rural areas, and particularly in Manola, will be resolved by the ratification of the International Labour Convention, which I hope we will be ready to ratify in the next month. The purpose of this International Convention is precisely to balance rural areas, with any other workplace, with regard to the statement of the wage earner of all forms, hours, workers, etc. So the Labour Inspectorate will be able to do his job there any more, as he would have done it in any other workplace. This is the institutional framework, which will enable us, in fact, to move to a new stage of respecting workers' rights in rural areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "To ratify the concession agreements concluded between the Greek State and the Port Authority S.A. - Provisions for the functioning of the port governance system and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 18 February 2019 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, single on the principle, articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u153	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u154	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u155	The House voted by a majority. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Anastasia Gara, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a very important bill titled "To ratify the concessions concluded between the Greek State and the Port Authority S.A. is being introduced for discussion today. - Provisions for the functioning of the port governance system and other provisions'. This is a draft law - a product of long-term negotiation with the institutions, the TIADE and port agencies, in order to promote the model of concessions for the use of regional ports, unlike the privatisation that the previous government promoted. For our part, we believe that this framework of law is necessary for the operation and use of ports, for local and economic development, particularly in the areas that are located in the ten regional ports, to which the management provisions and bodies of which they relate, remain under public control. In particular, this draft law describes in detail the model for exploiting activities and infrastructure, with synergies in the public and private sectors, through the concessions of activities in ten regional ports of the country and in particular in the ports of Alexandroupolis, Volos, Rafina, Igoumenitsa, Patras, Heraklion, Elefsina, Lavrio, Corfu and Kavala. I would like to stress once again that it is a political decision of the SYRIZA Government to exploit these ten ports, without being privatised or made redundant, but by remaining under public control. That is why we fought hard, in order to overthrow the promoted sales model, through the transfer of shares, by legislating the possibility of concessions to activities and infrastructures, a model that applies to 80% of ports worldwide. One of the most important points of the bill and the framework that is being introduced today is to strengthen the role of port agencies and ensure their sustainability, as well as to strengthen the relationship between regional ports and towns and local communities. Ladies and gentlemen, the evolution of the port industry and the upgrading of the role of the ports, in particular their land areas, from a place of reception and loading of cargo ships to logistics centres, has forced port operators to seek partnerships, consortia, transfers to ensure non-state funding, as the needs were too great for the realisation of the necessary development projects, either in infrastructure and construction or in activities. This need led to multiple concession models being applied. One of these was the model of privatisation, through the sale of the majority package of shares and the conclusion of a contract with a private contractor, who assumes the total management of the port. This model was chosen for the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki in the previous years. However, under no circumstances could we qualify for such a method in the development of the country's regional ports, not only for national, political and ideological reasons, since for us the public and social nature of the large infrastructures of the country is prioritised, but also for the following economic reasons, which I can make briefly. The financial size of the agencies would be dissuasive to attract major investors. The variety of port activities and services, as well as the low levels of traffic, would also not be attractive in investment. Furthermore, the great relevance and immediate proximity of the port’s activities with the activities of the neighbouring urban environment would require contractors to engage in activities that would not have an effect on business, thereby degrading or excluding such parallel actions of a social nature. For these reasons, we have chosen to exploit the ports, not by the method of selling their shares, but by the method of promoting them through international concessions of port areas and activities, in order to attract private capital to the port industry, on the basis of specific and strict criteria and conditions capable of ensuring the proper operation, development and viability of the agencies. Furthermore, the choice of this method is consciously in line with long-term international and Union practice and experience in the port industry, which allows for the choice of specialised investors for the benefit of the Greek economy. Apart from the main axis of the concessions, however, the second part of the bill also provides for a number of important provisions relating to maritime education, the recruitment of pilots, the modernisation of the operating framework for small vessels, the strengthening of maritime legislation, and the broadening of the responsibilities of the Port Authority and others. Let us look at these two parts of the draft law, ladies and gentlemen. By means of the method of concessions, the regional ports remain under public control, as the majority of the shares of the port authorities are not transferred to the private investor’s share control and the port organisations retain their character as legal persons of a legal nature of a two-tier nature which exercise business, but retain all their powers and powers, which involve the exercise of public authority. In particular, all existing concession contracts between the Greek State and the relevant port body S.A. which had not been ratified for many years have been ratified by this draft law, and expressly provides for the possibility of concluding concessions which are not provided for in the main concessions. There is also the possibility for the GOI to open the relevant tenders concerning the concession of specific and combined business units or port operations and services of the facilities of the regional ports, for example: containers, cruises, warehouses, etc. The competition procedure for the promotion of the proposed investor is defined by an international tender procedure conducted by the GOI, as the right and the power to make concessions rests and is exercised exclusively by it. Particularly important is that the selection of the activities to be retreat arises after consultation and agreement of the port organisation, the Ministry of Shipping and the TEAD. At the same time, it is envisaged to impose on the sub-accessor the compensatory fee in favour of the port organisation concerned, which may not exceed 5% of the annual gross revenue of the decommissioner, with the possibility, of exceeding the percentage if it is shown that the port operator's viability is threatened. The above-mentioned fee is further and independent of the total financial consideration of the concession paid by the concession holder. The exact amount of that fee shall be determined by common Ministerial Decision, before the opening of the tender, on the basis of a viability study of a financial advisor hired by the administration of the port body. It also increases by 1.5% and is formed from 2% to 3.5% the proportion of the public contribution to the total consolidated annual revenue of port agencies, which will now be paid to the municipality concerned, strengthening the town and port relationship. In a general context, as I said before, this draft law aims to make the best and most advantageous for the public interest and regional development a method of using regional ports. By concluding contracts for the withdrawal of the right to operate specific and combined operational units or port operations and services of port installations, these ports are allowed to make full use of the combined activities for the benefit of the organisation and local communities. In addition, this draft law aims at attracting investors with specialised experience, allowing the creation of new jobs, as well as the targeted development of the redistributed port activities and the operational units of the regional ports in the immediate future, which have a dynamic and potential for further development. The second part of the bill provides for provisions with other arrangements of competence of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, which deal with the modernisation of the pilot recruitment process, provisions relating to the uninterrupted competitive process, the simplification of supporting documents, the strengthening of transparency and impartiality, the modernisation of the courses in question. There are also urgent amendments to Law 4256/2014 in view of the imminent implementation of the Register of Tourist Ships and Small Vessels, as well as the uninterrupted functioning of the market for professional pleasure boats, in particular, for recreational craft up to twenty-four measures, which may be developed, without serving the master and crew, the governance of which is undertaken by a commander, who has the legally required qualifications. Provisions are also laid down concerning the continuation of the operation of the House of Navy and the Office of Sea Labour to promote employment and strengthen the protection of the rights of seafarers, but also the better administrative organisation of these services and the amendment to the direct provision of access ramps for small boats at sea to meet the needs of tourist development and border areas, which were not available to date. Provisions are also provided for the extension of the responsibilities of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy to all Greek islands outside Crete, Evia and Lefkada, in order to resolve more effectively various problems facing the Greek islands, reforming the existing institutional framework, governing the educational staff of the Chambers of Maritime Education of the Province of Crete, Evia and Lefkada, as well as modernising the operation of the Centre for the Training of Commercial Masters of Engineers of Municipal Municipalities in Macedonia, in order to reduce the long-term expectancy in the center of Rente, in an improvement of the e.g. with regard to the Navy Schools of the General Regulation, as in force, but also to the establishment of a day to prevent maritime accidents and drowning, to enhance maritime legislation providing for the compulsory consolidation of ships and electronic payment of seafarms for the further protection of the rights of seafarms and the further control of the naval authorities. These and many other provisions are contained in this draft law, which we are called upon to respond to the solution of real and long-term problems identified. Ladies and gentlemen, our experience with the debates with investors and scientists on the regional ports has shown the great potential for our country, in the port industry, but has also highlighted the lack of the appropriate legal framework, so that the investment interest in making maximum use and development of ports, while ensuring the public interest. I will mention as an example the port of Alexandroupolis, a port of the largest in Greece and in a central geostrategic position. This is a border place at the entrance of the European area, which would make it precarious - I would say - to transfer and manage the port from just one private person. It is a port with enormous potential and prospects, but for decades it has been untreated and downgraded, and its privatisation has already been launched by the New Democracy. However, the only discussion of the method of synergies and concessions has brought to the port of Alexandroupolis a number of reliable investors and development proposals for many activities from energy projects, the creation of logistics centres, the creation of a commercial and transit centre, the strengthening of maritime tourism up to combined transport. As you can see, the vote on this bill opens for the region of Thrace, but also for our country as a whole, huge potential for growth with a high number of new jobs, which is one of the most important objectives for us. For these reasons, I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this draft law, in order to ensure the public nature of the ports on the one hand, but also to give impetus to development, through large investment in the country's regional ports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u157	Thank you. I shall give the floor for a moment to Mr Arachovitis, Minister for Agriculture and Food, for an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Madam President. This is the amendment with a general number of 1972 and a special 52, which amends point 666 of the 1996 amendment on fisheries and we also make an intervention in an ancient law on the homicide. In the first case, a paragraph of paragraph 1 is added to Article 2 of the 666/1966, so that it is not possible to grant and renew a fishing licence to professional vessels if they have a double flag, as this is contrary to Article 92 of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, as ratified by Law 2321/1995 and is a clearly Community obligation of our country. It is also added, paragraph 3 of Article 2 of 666/1966, which establishes the possibility of revocation of a fishing licence - that is to say, the former - where these vessels retain a flag other than the Greek flag. In case of (b) paragraph 1, the paragraph 1 of Article 5 of dd.666/1966 shall be replaced again, in order to link the possibility of renewal of the professional fishing licence to the obligation to submit fishing activities data. The collection of fisheries data is also the big problem in our country, which is constantly invoked on the one hand. On the other hand, in the distributions, in the quotas, precisely because of a lack of data, our country is being wronged against other countries which have organised data. Paragraph 2 is now replaced by paragraph 5 of Article 14 of Law 420/1970, where the possibility of deletion or conversion of sanctions has been granted where non-monetary penalties have been imposed for infringements of fishing legislation pending their examination. At the moment, the infringements and appeals pending are nine thousand over the last thirty years. As you can see, the system is blocked here and with this amendment it is given to non-monetary administrative infringements, once money is paid, a possibility of being extinguished, because if they are implemented, you understand that fishing in our country will be stopped for some time. This is part of our country's obligations vis-à-vis the European Commission, which has hit the alarm and has pointed out to us that we must end the infringements. The second provision relates to the law of law-enforcement, where Article 44(1) of Law No.4325/2015 is amended here, which relies on the law of 1957 and has to do with the time of the early first start of lawlessness. In other words, the first generation of tactics is founded, which, under the climatic conditions that have changed in recent years, already in May, we may have the first generation of torchs. So it all has to be ready in May. It is with this amendment that it is possible to carry out a pre-contractual task of tacosy for 2019, for the current period, so that all of them are ready in May to begin the task of tacosy. Already, four months earlier, there has been the announcement, allocation of appropriations, positions, stocks of medicines. He lives in the districts to do the contest. The amendment enables them to carry out the pre-contractual work for 2019. The procedure is laid down in the following provision. The responsibility of supplying the coronary materials lies with the Ministry of Rural Development - it is a constant issue - precisely so that there is a speed in the supply of medicines and in the uninterrupted execution of the project. Finally, paragraph 3 relates to the OPEKEPE Joint Committee on Legal and Legal Support. Her work - the opinion - is to give an opinion to OPEKEPE to avoid budgetary corrections to our country and to the legal processing of regulatory acts and contracts. This committee is in existence, consulted and paid through technical assistance or OPEKEPE for the PAA. However, its work extends beyond the measures of PAA, on other issues of OPECEP, where the remuneration of members of the State’s Legal Council had not been sufficiently legislated. There was an empty legacy, according to the General Accounting Office of the State. We move on to this as the General Accounting Office of the State. If you want, I can submit to the minutes the opinion of the General Accounting Office of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u159	Thank you too, Minister. I'm telling you, the system's open, so we don't get confused later. Mr Placiotakis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing the bill for the new model of exploiting the ten regional ports in the country for a week and I regret to see the chaos but also the panic in the government camp. We're talking about a bill that's been through forty waves. I remember the previous Minister, Mr Kurubli, for three years now, talking about a bill which, in essence, would change the image of ports. He said he would review port policy. We heard about a bill, but we didn't see a bill. It's been a long time. I too must admit that for many years I have been following shipping issues and more extensively the issues of port exploitation, and I have been curious to see what this great reform will be in the field of port policy, which the government has been diligently advertising for years, of course, and which the current Minister has also announced. Indeed, while I read diligently - I can say - today's bill and I have heard the Ministers responsible, finally, from what it seems, rather than helping to develop the ports, it worsens the already worsening situation in the already existing problems of ports. And indeed, I wonder why the government proceeded with this model of concessions, without basically any exploitation study, no viability study. No condition of free and fair competition is fulfilled. They talked to us about a political choice. In the previous period, New Democracy proceeded with concessions from ports, following evaluation by both the GOI and the Ministry of Finance for the sale of the shares. You go ahead with this model, without taking any indicators into consideration. And because Mr. Kouvelis told us "you know, the national port strategy that took place in New Democracy in 2013...". Really, Mr. Kuvell, where is yours? Because you told us you were working on it, where's your national port strategy? The national port strategy in New Democracy provided for in Law 4150/2013 that, for any change in the property situation of the ports, there had to be an economic viability study, so that we could move forward in the next step. What did the Minister explain to us - among the terms - why he is moving on to this model? It goes on because it was claimed by the institutions that the compensatory, compensation fee should be charged at the end of 5%. Be careful. The institutions have claimed it. That was the answer of the Minister. But, well, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, aren't we out of memorial? Anyway. And be careful: eventually, it may not be 5%, because according to an objective economic viability study, it can go to 10% and 15%. 5% is claimed by the institutions, so we accept it, but it may not be 5%. It can be 10% and 15%, because it is precisely possible to create a problem with the viability of the organisation concerned. Are these serious things, Minister? Are serious things about an international investor who wishes to come and invest in our country, not to know the exact percentage? We therefore have a government, ladies and gentlemen, which executes mandates, a puppet government, which is trying to drugize the life of the next government. But, Minister, we won't do you a favor. The New Democracy has a comprehensive plan for the development of ports, based on the conditions of international competition, based on the terms of international trade and competitiveness, and I am sure, with the safeguarding of jobs, investments and the benefit of the Greek economy. But let's go see what happened yesterday and on the ESAL Council, as regards the Piraeus Port Authority's master plan. The decision of the ESRB is as follows: 'We approve compulsory investment' - they were not able to make any difference - 'and we also approve part of voluntary investments'. We're talking about 580m euros investments, and we're gonna know what we're talking about. But both of these investments - both compulsory and optional - are the approval of the Ministry of Culture, of course, after the opinion of the central councils and, of course, the approval of the strategic environmental impact study. I'm in love, too. Let us accept that both are valid. Minister, is there a planning principle? Because the study of strategic environmental impacts exists. So who's going to examine her? He's been filed with the Ministry of Shipping. Will the Ministry of Shipping examine her? Will the Ministry of the Environment examine her? And we're talking about investors who want to invest in specific investments. In addition, the Ministry of Finance did not attend this meeting. And it is not just that the Ministry of Finance did not attend this meeting, the GOI abstained from the committee meeting. And I'm at least worried about that. Mandatory investments must also be completed by 2021. And you haven't approved them yet. Are we going to wait for archaeology, as it did in Greek for three years, in order to approve these investments? Is that the message you're sending to potential foreign investors? You may not be interested in the credibility of the country, but we, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are interested in it because in a difficult budgetary period, Greece must and must create a friendly and attractive environment for investment. Unless, of course, you are not interested in taxing and you are happy. You also pay your allowances, you extend your term of office, but you know that this is over. Because, Minister, you also like transparency, I ask you and look at it: There is Managing Director of ports, who is related to a member of the Supervisory Board, which also supervises the GOI and the Supreme Court, so it also controls port agencies, and I think that this is a very serious issue that you should consider. Now, with regard to the other provisions of the bill, in principle, it amends the Government for the fifth time - take note, ladies and gentlemen, of the serious government - the Law of Varvitsiotis on maritime tourism - in fact abolishes the concept of bareboat chartering for ships of twenty-four metres. In other words, until now, the captain could have led the ship, whether it was the charterer or any of the passengers, without having, of course, a captain of the owner, provided that the commander's debts had the appropriate diploma. Moreover, the governor must be recruited by the owner, i.e. he must declare that he is an employee of the owner. So a stranger who comes to charter a fourteen-foot boat that doesn't want a governor, as he has a licence himself, should be hired by the owner. Great stuff! Only you can do these things! As regards the Register of Tourist Vessels and this was established in 2014. It began to work in 2019- the end of 2018 – still not working. Think about getting into the summer season. On the subject of public maritime education, I think we should agree. Education is about the next generations, the next members of the shipping community. So, first of all, we need to come up with modernization, we need codification in the existing regulatory and legislative framework and, of course, we need a comprehensive rational and realistic plan, with regard to specifications, structure, financial and educational functions. What we have to see, of course, is the sustainability of maritime education, which is also the main funder of maritime education. Now, to deal with technical issues of educational employment staff and all that, I think it is minor. Let's go to the Port Corps now. Minister, you told us in committee that we as a New Democracy abolished organic positions in the Port House. I would like to state before the House - and I also said to the committee - that the New Democracy has not abolished any active organic position in the Port House. What was abolished is part of the empty organic positions. Of course, you said to us, Minister: 'I will try to ensure the ratio of each of you leaving with one intake, and I cannot satisfy the intake from the roof of eight thousand to the four hundred ninety left, because the condition of one in one is applied'. I ask you: we had the outbreak of the migration crisis in 2015 and 2016. We also had the amendment of the Ministry's organogram in 2018. We had absolutely no request from neither the political nor the Ministry's military leadership to increase organic positions. But let us see what happened with the civil servants. There you increased the organic positions - and you did well - and you created new services - see IAL - as if the Secretariat-General of Ports could not take over these responsibilities. I understand, however, why you have done so, as the designation of ships which have not been immersed as dangerous and harmful, in order to remove them, without having fulfilled their obligations in the relevant bodies, Minister, is of importance to the issues of transparency. The issue, however, of the different approach between uniforms and civil servants shows your idealism, but also how you deal with uniforms. With regard to the recruitments now in the uniforms. First of all, Mr. Dritsas, the previous Minister, proceeded with the recruitment of port guards by ASEP procedures. Our suggestion: Follow the scorched one. Now you tell us that in the competition committee there is a member of the AACC, but the whole committee is members of the Ministry. You can't convince us. And you know why you can't convince us? Because we have already formally entered a protracted pre-election period. You told us about the recruitment of pilots and, when I raised the matter to you: why are you amending a presidential decree by law, you told me that the material of the course should be included in this bill in detail. I ask you: If the content of the course changes, because it is changing international regulations, what should you do? Modify the law with another law? Is that your bureaucracy, Mr. Kuveli? Finally, let's move on to the extensions of the responsibilities of the Port Authority. What are you doing? You are expanding the responsibilities of the Port House, both on the Aegean and on the beach, without, of course, specifying how this need emerges. There is no specific study. I have brought you a specific example: the coastal centre. There's a noise pollution problem. So he has to go a cop. In the same center there are clashes and the citizen does not know whether the center is on the cavalry or on the beach. So the portman's coming too. In other words, we have the simultaneous arrival of police and port police. There will be no confusion of competence? Until first - be careful - where the sea wave ended was intervening the port and the rest of the responsibilities were in the police. Now, however, operational means and additional staff will also be needed, but above all, huge confusion will be created, but lack of competence. The lack of legal certainty will therefore be at the expense of the citizens and the fairness of the country. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, I tell you that, whatever you do, your works and your days are coming to an end. The clavicle of the government reaches its end, and if you collect it, you will soon be placed in the timeframe of history, and your monasteries will be abolished by New Democracy, with a modern institutional framework for all the issues of shipping, for the use of ports. We have shown in the past that we have exploited the ports of our country with a specific plan. Of course, what we are interested in, ladies and gentlemen, is the maintenance of jobs, the modernisation of ports and the acquisition of investments, because it is not determined by this bill, and of course the competitiveness of the national economy and, finally, the creation of a friendly climate for potential investors who want to come to our country. We are therefore voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u161	Ladies and gentlemen, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, is seeking permission from a short-day absence abroad from 25 February 2019 until 1 March 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u162	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mr Carras, a special speaker of the Democratic Alliance, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Madam President. The major issue, which is always raised: total concessions or concessions for the operation and operation of ports? The PPA has so far followed the overall concession model and the overall concession model to the Greek Port Authority. I will not express my opinion or the Democratic Assent at this point for the two bills. I will, however, say our opinion on the model you are choosing today, the model of concessions. First of all, it is a proper model, when a port stays under state control, under state supervision, and the individual activities are granted for both the growth of the port and the economy and for the growth of jobs. However, a question arises on these issues. It is not just state supervision. The issue is the model as it is designed to yield. This bill, as planned, is earlier. Why do we say that? In 2002-2003 it became the port agencies of the ten regional ports and since then they operate in the form of public limited liability companies. Today the government tells us that this law is needed because there are no concessions, according to that model, which it has chosen. Of course, we say that, on the part of the Democratic Union, our policy is the concessions, but the present ones are not well designed. I would like to remind you of this: I have before me the Convention on the Port of Alexandroupolis 2003. What's he telling us? It tells us that the concessions are allowed. And where does he say that? In Article 14, where he speaks of retired, he holds a reservation. The 2002-2003 contracts are identical to the ten. They do not paraphrase either by party or by party. So it tells us that the right and every right, which was then granted to OLA, the Port Authority of Alexandroupolis, was incomprehensible, but with reservations. The fact that the right was defined as non-transferable did not limit the possibility of further concessions for the use of the concessions granted pursuant to Article 3(1) and (7) of the same 2003 contract. Here it tells us again that port activities may be retreated. Today, therefore, we are at the forefront of the fact that these conventions are being ratified by law, the obsolete, which has already worked for fifteen years and why this form is being planned. We must say that it is not just an intervention from the GOI. It's for sure. It seems that this issue has left Greece now, with concessions or with concessions or retreats, if you wish. Why am I saying that? We therefore read the following provisions, which will regulate the model of concessions. What are they telling us? The concessions will be ratified by law. Once again the State will commit itself to the contracts that will exist, by law, that their validity cannot be called into question, even if they have defects either in law or in fact. But is that enough? No, for the reason that the model, as planned, is insurmountable, unrealistic, because it comes in a package of ten ports. I can say it's the ten perhaps most critical ports in the country, after Piraeus and Thessaloniki today. You tell us that the HIAD, the independent consultant of HIAD - I told the committee - is an international audit firm, which obviously also serves investors' interests. It will not be a monopoly of the Greek state. These companies move in parallel, horizontally and vertically in all directions. So he will determine at the port of Alexandroupolis - the Minister told us that this is what they are thinking to promote it first - the activities that will be turned aside. Is he gonna do it all right? Let's just say he's gonna do it well. The next, however, is the concept of collecting, the competitive operation of the port of Kavala, Volos? In the same marine area, as in the same marine area is part of Patras, it belongs to Corfu, still belongs to Heraklion, Crete and...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u164	Igoumenitsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u165	Igoumenitsa. Thank you, Mr Colleague, for the reminder. How will they be planned? They will be designed complementaryly, competitively. That is why we have insisted at the outset and insisted that a complete plan for a national port strategy is needed. This plan doesn't exist, and if there's one, it's outdated. In view of the decision to proceed to privatise concessions, there should be. Of course, I will also say briefly on issues which are raised in relation to the terms of the conventions. The contracts say: We will be given a concession to the GOI for the debt service, and then we will have compensatory fees, compensatory benefits from the concessionaire to the port agency. How will the concession be determined? We did not hear this, how it would be decided, when we had to talk about provisions, which have a seriousness, a gravity, to have an image, not only of the procedure, but at least the House, in order to be able to vote for similar laws, also to have an image of economic parameters which it does not have. Therefore, “Yiannis is buying and Yiannis drinks”. The HICP, which, of course, as I have said in committee, will be the al-State, the one-State of the procedure, is the General Assembly of the Port Organisations and the question has been raised and I have not received an answer: If the board of the public limited liability company considers that the proposal put forward by the independent consultant is incomprehensible and rejects it, what is happening? It says the law - and puts it on the market - that if thirty days are spent, then the general shareholder's meeting will decide. What shareholder? The GOI is the shareholder at the moment, because that is where the shares have been transferred. It will replace, in other words, the refusal of the board of directors of the GOI. Conflict of interest whether it has been done by law or not. See, if you want the exhibition of the Scientific Service of the Parliament. What's he saying? Sanctions for contracts by law bind third parties. In the case of contractual terms between Contracting Parties, they shall neither prevent judicial proceedings nor dispute nor remove from the courts the resolution of such disputes. So the pathology of contracts begins, as it will be. I do not expect there to be an administrative board of a port agency which signs, without guarantees, concessions. Let's go to the next one, which I had commented on in committee. I remind Mr. Kuvell that too. It included the provision that the State would guarantee that the terms of the contracts were properly fulfilled. So I asked this: Where will it provide? To both sides? And to the private? Because, as it was formulated, and the individual could claim the State guarantee, pay the State if he and the private investor did not pay for the benefits of the use and exploitation of port activities. Were these serious things? Fortunately, the Minister says "no, I will only grant the guarantee for the Greek public". Do you need this guarantee? But, when the port itself, the port company itself, will provide the activities, will it have signed them, will we then come from the back door to make the public in order to benefit the private concessionaire, if there is any difference? Mr Minister, you should delete the guarantee clause as a whole, not include the responsibility of the Greek State, because I had described a similar contract, which I had commented on, that it might lead to colonial demands from the alleged investors. He will always have the public torn apart on the investor's head, because he will say: you know, I will use the guarantee right that I have at your expense. And I don't know where he'll be. I think I should be closing my remarks here because it is clear that we cannot vote. On the contrary, we are voting against the way in which the bill is introduced on the issue of granting activities to ports. Just one last example. In Alexandroupolis, we all know that there is a small handling of containers. Is this the same thing in Kavala? Will a concessionaire also ask Alexandroupolis, will the other one go to Kavala, will the third one go to Volos? Demonstration, if they compete at such short distances, is led to economic hardship or lack of interest in investment. Of course, a rise in the compensatory fee from 2% to 3.5%, which will be given to the municipalities, gives the impression that it gives a small compensation. But I want to remind you of something else. We have a long history of primary electricity and cleanliness charges. At the airport the day before yesterday, in the concessions, Mr Kurublis, of course, brought, as Minister of the Interior, a provision that the House then voted only by a majority. What did he say? Where there is a concession contract and there is no provision of cleanliness, lighting, because the company, which has the concession, is not subject to municipal fees. So I think we have also deleted the property fees, even in this way in favour of investors. It should be clarified here that, when we say that it does not pay municipal fees, we mean that municipal taxes should be paid by the recipients. We cannot erase everything because, after all, we create inequality and create questions of transparency. With these considerations, therefore, I repeat that it is of interest to comment and, of course, I must dwell on Article 7, which is, if you like, a false copy: Conclusion of works contracts between a port organisation and a concessionaire. So the bill tells us that the investor - a concessionaire - will come and will be able to conclude a contract with the port agency in order to have his staff and services to ensure that the port agency is viable. False the layout. Why? I'll tell you right away. He'll make a rough competition, the sub-accessor will take offers, since we don't have any prerequisites here from his subsidiary, from his friendly company. It will therefore force the port company, so that it can survive effectively, to lower the tariff. And here is another issue to lower the tariff, which will offer and benefit the licensee to damage the public interest. These aren't answers. The answers must be given. We don't have any answers. Furthermore, at this point, I would like to comment on the other provisions of the bill, so that they do not go unanswered on our part. I have told the pilots that we will vote on the provision. I believe that historically, there must be pilots in Greece. They're useful. But I have said something else about the famous island. How is it supported by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, when Article 12 states: 'The competence of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy is extended to all of Greece?' Let us delete - and I have told the committee - the word 'Saint'. It's no longer of the Aegean, it's of Greece. Furthermore, it says that all islands are included and are excluded from Crete. So, does Crete have no areas that need the affection and privileges of islands? It's surrounded by the sea. It's not somewhere where road connections can be made or land transport. She was excluded from the metaphor. Now you want to exclude it from islands as well. We'll see where this story goes. What must concern me - because time is approaching - is the extension of the responsibilities of the Port Authority and the Greek Coast Guard to the Cayal - let me accept the concept of the cayal as a real event - to the maximum access of the sea to the land. In other words, the port must begin to take its bourgeoisie - since we have no demarcated saints in the majority of fifteen thousand kilometres of the Greek coastline - to see how far the sea wave has reached and only then will it exercise responsibility. But he says something else. It will also exercise competence over the beach. The beach is a 90% private area in Greece, because it has not been expropriated, no openings have been made, no transfer has been made to acquire a shared character. The port officer said so too. He said: "You know, we are addressing the prosecutor and giving us instructions every time who is to be taken over." So we'll be looking for the prosecutor if we have a public prosecutor, if it's night and the man sleeps to rest after the day's burn, tell us whether we'll arrest or not arrest the offender or tell us what we're going to do. I said something and I repeat it. We must not turn the porters into rangers looking for their responsibilities. They are absolutely necessary for the sea, for the safety of shipping, for the control of immigration, for fisheries. Today, in fact, they are bringing many fishing amendments. I have not yet understood the extent to which they arrive. We'll see them and comment on them later, and we'll decide. All this and since there is at the moment no staffing of the Security Councils to the desired extent, they will, if you like, lead, perhaps not to say it - and to immunity of small crime. I'm not talking about big crime. The great crime faces it, even unreservedly, when it exists. I'm talking about the little crime, which is the one in the chairs on the beach or whatever. She's now she's dying. We're giving an immunity. To finish, because I must not say more - I think I will have your tolerance for a while, Madam President - I would also like to make a comment, which will be put here and in the implementation of the law, as the majority will vote for it. I've been commenting, I've been haunted if you want, I've said something. I hear about ral, i.e. the Port Regulatory Authority. I see ral has a role to play. But I also hear about IAL, the public port authority. At the same time, however, I also read the Agency of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, and I see that the AAL has competence, which, as the Minister has told us, is now expanding throughout Greece. I was left with the impression that it was only...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u166	On the contrary, I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u167	That it's limited?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u168	To PPA and PLTH.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u169	Doesn't he have a regional? I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u170	But I told you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u171	Okay. If you said so, I'll say something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u172	You don't have to, because your time has been completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u173	In any case, if only for them, we need to make it clear in the law, because I was wrong - possibly - as a result of regional services. In any case, the responsibilities of the many Secretary-General of the Ministry of Commerce and, in particular, those of the Port Policy with the responsibilities of the IAL should not be overlap with. The Competition DAL tells us a lot of things. The last thing is this: the question I have put to the committee remains. Who will define the concessionary policy of the concessionaire so that we know what will respond to the revenues of the Port Agency? It's an empty law. You didn't tell us anything. If we leave it to the authorities of the economy, you understand that we do not serve the public interest, when in terms of viability in the Port Agency we impose a minimum of 5%. Who will be conducting a pricing policy, so that it is known in advance and can also be in exchange for concessions, so as to say that it goes to good, something will go to public debt, will the Greek be relieved? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-two students and students and four educational sessions of the House of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I shall now give the floor to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Haritsis, to develop an amendment in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Madam President. I would remind you that with Law 4555/2018 on "KLITHENO" the services of citizenship were transferred from the decentralised administration to the Regional Administrations of the Ministry of Interior. But, as is often the case with the Greek public administration, administrative change involves a number of issues which are not always solved automatically and, therefore, with this regulation today, we are dealing with issues relating to the coverage of the fixed and operational expenditure of the regional administrations concerned, which are united with the services of the decentralised administration. I would also remind you of the corresponding arrangement that we voted on in 2017 with Law 4483/2017, Article 129, to regulate such expenditure in relation to the accumulation of services by the Ministry of Interior with the Ministry of Migration Policy. I think it is a good thing that we are entering into a common coverage of the costs of different services. The creation of a public-sector economy as a whole is beneficial because it reduces the total cost, and I therefore call on you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u176	Mr Kouzilos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will start by saying that you have become a government against concessions and the sale of ports. You were then accusing the New Democracy, the Government at that time, but you are actually applying exactly the same. So you are the ones who apply the Memorandums, and you are the ones who are very simply conducting a liberal policy. So you're actually the same thing, you're doing the same thing, you're doing the same thing. You have the same policy. SYRIZA in 2016 said: "We seek stability and security in industrial relations" and saw strikes for the PPA, for the PLTH and for strikes in all regional ports. These are the industrial relations you have said and sought for stability and security. By its communication, FMYLE denounces the indifference of the then Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis, of the signing of a collective agreement. Still nothing. You don't even talk about it. We see exactly what we have been saying for two years, the social person of SYRIZA: strikes, strikes, strikes. And that's all why? Because there is a Memorandum Policy. I'm going to Part I of the draft "Clarification of Concessions". What are you doing? You grant ten regional ports, which, if you were counter-population, would go out to the bars. We told you there were other ways, but the Ministry of Shipping has no say. We have said that in committee too. The Ministry of Shipping shouldn't have brought this bill for the ten regional ports. It's the HIAD, which, at the hearing, didn't come to tell us his opinion. The ten regional ports belong to the TIADED and we have too many simple questions that no one has answered: According to what study and revenue? What have you calculated for each port, for every activity? As we are in plenary, the TIAD has never answered what has been collected so far from the sales of PPA and PAT. And to see what had happened then, in March 2018, I will tell you that the TIADED started to launch competitions to hire legal consultants to sell 12 regional ports. When he presented this on that day, you said that you were starting to grant the twelve regional ports, you said it was not possible, there is no such case. In order to understand what we are saying, the GOI had not informed either the Secretariat-General of Port Policy or the Ministry of Shipping that this procedure is taking place. So, from there, why should we talk and what do we say? What do you give? At the moment, ten regional ports and even ten regional ports with profitability, zero subsidy from the State budget, have an operational plan, zero bank account and borrowing, increase in turnover and profits and conditions for port cluster. It's all you said and condemned when you were opposition, gentlemen. What do we hear all these years about what we said now? We have heard for years that the National Port Strategy has been updated. Nothing so far exists. We saw the Secretary-General say that Greece's port system will be changed. But since there is no National Port Strategy. The development tool is our ports. Yeah, it's a development tool, but for who? The PPA and EATH do not have all the ten regional ports that provide profitability in port policy are granted by the specific activities. But here we also have another oxymoor: in August the government announced works worth 32.6 million for these ports. I would now like to see a statement from Mr Lambridis, but because the Secretary-General cannot answer it, the Minister will answer it. He has written a very nice text in August of 1918 and says: "The exit from the memorials is a landmark date". Well, to understand what we all say, from the memorials, yes, we went out, so we can't borrow - that means you can't get money - but from supervision we're not gone, and that's why we're giving the twelve regional ports, because it's a Memorandum commitment. Activities are granted because it is a Memorandum of Understanding. In this text we read to guarantee labour rights. With what collective agreements? We all see what happens in the ten regional ports. The transformations of PPA and EGF, really, where have they been stuck for three years? The General Staff Regulations of ports has been circumvented. With very great difficulty, OMYLE has gone through it. Substantial public control. Yes, sir. Public control of ports. Question 1, why did the PPA close the port of Piraeus with bars while banned under a contract? Second, since it's a public port, why can't anyone park outside the ministry, and you're making a competition for a hundred and fifty parking places? Investments made. Investments in the ports for which the Greek State has no say. The narrow public sector. Your development policy will be seen below when I comment on the four ports. But, in general terms, we have something else to comment on. You've been running for four years. You said, therefore, about the Academy of a Port Body in Alexandroupolis, Mr. Kourublis had taken pictures of mayors, with everything. It won't happen. First lie. Academia that will be delayed too much. Article 65 of the EC Treaty 4504/2017 on paper. Repair bases. You said, yes, you've proposed, you've said it. Your remarks were very correct, you told us, and we will look to upgrade them and help them. No backup. Auxiliary coast guard. On the paper. Supply of means of transport. Nothing at all. Social policy, co-service, travel. Is that social policy? With problems over them for the Port? Responsibility. IAL knows very well that it's all your party members. To RAL the same. And we had something else that went through the change. The "SYRIZA Gadus travel" has also been created to applaud the Prime Minister, the transporters and the party members of the SYRIZA. Reduction in the taxation of seafarers you promised has not been made. Increase in pensions in the Port and Navy has not been made. The streamlining of the legislation has not been done. You're trying with balls right now. Strengthen public maritime education. It's not done. Very simple example: Macedonian AEN is six months without assistant teachers. Absence of political procedures denounces the civil service, the civil servants of the Ministry of Shipping. Corridor for retrospectives. You're not applying the S.T.E.'s decision. Lies on various other issues very small, such as the arms permits for the returnees. It's a five-year-old fighter thing. There is no decision on what you will do to increase organic positions. No change in Law 4226/2014 for the Limitian Counselor. You gave fifty-two swords, medals. I will give you a very simple example: "He left" a portman and because the Ministry did not have a sword to give him, at his funeral all his turn, the school classmates, they put refene, they ordered a sword and took it. You dismantled the Inspection and it's been proven that it's not like you said and supported, but it's something else that's happened over there and you dismantled the Inspection. There is no improvement in education - post-training representatives of the Port Authority. I'll go to the last one. You were talking about the adoption of children of the Port Corps by the House. That's not it. Two pages of lies to the essence and things that you promised and you haven't done. And then you talk about everyone else. I'm returning to the issues of ports. In 2018 by CEO of TIADED Mr. Labiris said that the ports of Alexandroupolis, Kavala, Igoumenitsa, Corfu will be the first ports to be exploited. What ports? The most profitable in fact. Anyone who sees the statistics of the three ports, these are the most profitable. Why Alexandroupolis? Because Alexandroupolis is a pole of attraction because of a geopolitical position. The American ambassador said Alexandroupolis was an energy and commercial hub during his visit in 2018. It is what we are saying that you call 'the murdering of the American people', you are granting activities. But it's not just one, specific activity you're going to grant. I tell you once again that every port is a small industry and is linked to logistics, roads, rail links. The same goes for the port of Kavala. And why Igoumenitsa? For Igoumenitsa currently has several funds, which ensure the Igoumenitsa operational park budget of 8,000, which will be one of the largest logistics centers in Western Greece. And you will give Igoumenitsa. Why Corfu and Heraklion? It's just that the cruise is blossoming. And you'll give the cruise. And then another question arises: is there a survival study of the ports? Since they're making profit. Profitability is derived from these ports. Tell us how they'll get through the ports later. During the hearing, FMYLE stated its opposition, stressing that there will be many problems for workers. Mr Dallas also said that ports are part of the narrow public sector - what you said when you were opposition - and they are considered a state. Now, with what you're going to do, will they be considered a state? What do you give? And what did the man say? That what you give are the fillets. What study? We say it again from now on, we call it: What studies has the TIAD done? Because you don't know. The U.S.I.D. is involved in this. And I say again and again: What you grant - and that's where everyone will fall to grab it - are the profitable activities. I'm going to Chapter F, to the provisions for the port. I shall begin with Article 26: 'Expansion of competence'. I asked you too many times, and I asked the committee what study you have done about this. Why? Because, for it to be done, to be able to do it, it takes three steps. First, an increase in organic, from eight thousand to thirteen thousand, so we can also have a Coast Guard. Secondly, a study of how many more executives will need and what specialisation they should have. The porter is not a city-runner to understand what and what is on the cavalry and on the beach. If anything happens right now, who's gonna yell? Planning. Why are you trying to do this right now and why all this rush? That's what we don't understand. Without the conditions, you share responsibilities right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u178	Mr. Kuzey, you've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u179	I'm gonna need my dentistry, too, thank you. In relation to the recruitment of the port, I would like to say that when we told you that there would be a problem, you did not hear anyone. We told you that the Port doesn't just have the academies. It also has qualified personnel, hired, such as masters, engineers, engineers. It is not by this system and all that you are implementing at the moment that the series of officers, in particular the Port Authority, who are qualified. And another subject emerged, on which we asked you to see how many law-makers there will still be - we have not seen - regarding the maritime followers. We have told you that there will be a very serious problem right now. I close and conclude with Article 22: 'Supporting provision for children detained in the port House'. I would like to submit to the minutes the letter I sent to you - because no one was responding, and here the President of Parliament, not the Bureau - with a protocol number - from the Bureau of Parliament - 4502/24-10-2018, on this matter. For all members of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies there is a specific arrangement. You've never applied this to the Port, you don't even look at it. Good, we won't bring it. Bring it on your own initiative. We're leaving it to you. We don't have a problem. Be your own initiative. Do it. But that's where the idea is. Once you don't, and we've mentioned it so many times, it seems your idealism on this subject. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Last to close: You are talking about ensuring Greek seafarers. Very good. The letters sent to you and here, so that you can reintroduce a relevant provision of Law 3816, do you know it? It has been left under protocol number - as far as I know, it was the Secretary-General for Maritime Policy - but it has never been answered. And what does it say? Those who are abandoned and the ship is confiscated, so that NATO can sell it, get their money. That is a very simple provision. That's not it either. So many years you've been ruling and, unfortunately, we've seen nothing of you. What we see is just patches. Of course we are voting in favour of the principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Kouzele, you've taken four minutes from your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u181	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u182	I will give Mr Pitsirla the floor for a minute and a half to develop an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u183	It is a small amendment. It is about a looseline of old ECOMMET subsidiaries, a lack of previous governments. In 2012, under Law 4038, the operation of ECOMMEX subsidiaries was interrupted, the accounts were frozen and the funding was interrupted. In 2013, there was a law, 4223, regulating the issues of the administrations of these companies in order to have no problems because the funding was suddenly suspended, the accounts were frozen by law. In this regulation at the time, there was an empty one. It was not predicted - they obviously did not know - that this protection should also apply to cheques, which were issued in the name of companies to third parties, and that there was a problem with certain members of these companies. For a sum, let's say, 100,000 euros, I know, they're being taken to court and we need to settle it. So the amendment goes on to close this issue. The companies are in liquidation. He's intimidating about some, some of them going on. But I think it is a matter that we need to take care of. I would like to say again that it concerns loose ends of the past, administrations of the past, and I think it is good to close it. That is the amendment and it has been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u184	Madam President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u185	To whom, Mr. Carras? Not provided.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u186	A question to you in the Bureau. But there is an amendment tabled, to know what is going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u187	I don't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u188	But has the Bureau not been informed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u189	We have a list here and they are all coming and we are developing it. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Madam President. We disagreed, of course, with what you said, that it should be at a meeting here, without second place, because you see that the amendments which are coming also increase the bill as a whole and it is another bill. Ports are an important part of maritime transport, play an important role in the transport chain, are key points of interconnection with roads and railways and air lines. The government with the bill comes to implement the European Union's policy on the liberalisation of transport and their basic infrastructure, which are ports. It implements the Memorandum of Understanding to privatise the ports of Alexandroupolis, Volos, Elefsina, Igoumenitsa, Heraklion, Kavala, Corfu, Lavrio, Patras and Rafina. It introduces another form, that of retreat and claims that this model is better than New Democracy, which was privatisation. The Minister in the committee claimed that the interest of the investors is the withdrawal of specific or even combined activities in different ports. He claimed that there is no specific investor, but in consultation he met the particular interest of many countries, mainly represented by their embassies and some investors. "It has occurred," he says, "without, of course, - and I have to be perfectly precise - they have identified and how this interest will be expressed". But here it is a common secret how Piat expressed this interest in specific ports. This confirms our claim, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that this model of withdrawal is an option, demand of monopolistic groups, because the agreement on business groups is more beneficial, for their profitability. In the'retreat or privatization' dilemma, the JRC is, of course, condemning both forms and calling on workers to condemn these policies. We note that in the draft law the government is implementing in particular its commitments to imperialist centres for the concession of ports in order to satisfy military planning in the wider region. Thessaloniki and Alexandroupolis are already being converted into host bases of military material, an outlet for imperialist interventions and wars in the Balkans and the wider region. The port of Thessaloniki is converted into US military material bases, American helicopters are going and coming, transporting equipment which is assembled and disassembled into their facilities and, of course, exploiting the port of Alexandroupolis for their exit. They are supplemented this year by the dirty war between the United States, NATO and the European Union in Yugoslavia, its division, the blood flow of the peoples of the Balkans. The port of Thessaloniki was a hostage of warships. Designs in the region, the increasing involvement of the country, the provision of land, air and sea facilities by the government are even more dangerous to the peoples of the region, the people of our country. In Alexandroupolis, the concession of part of the port to the US and NATO has been made. The development plan for the Egnatia railway, which serves the port of Alexandroupolis and the plans of the monopolies involved in combined transport, goes ahead. It forms a cargo hub for the Black Sea ports in competition with Turkey. Prepare to implement the liquefied natural gas transmission plans. Government policy, as reflected in this draft law, serves the objective of strengthening the competitiveness of maritime transport, satisfys strategic choices of the bourgeoisie, serves imperialist plans in the region for economic and military penetration in the Balkans, the Middle East, the adjacent region, the Caspian region, the interconnection with countries north and centraleast Europe. The axes of this port policy, which serves the designs of the urban order, business and monopoly groups, are, as we have heard in the committees, being important, developmental and national objectives. Before becoming a government, SYRIZA spoke of the public nature of the ports. He attacked the former government's measures. He called their policy destructive. Today, not only does it adopt, but it introduces new forms of concession that are of greater benefit to business groups. The capital chooses what activities it will invest. Thus, the profitable ‘fillets’ will be invested and exploited, while all other activities, which may be necessary for the people's layers, will remain under control of the port organisation, which will be rapidly damaged, since the ‘fillets’ will have been granted. It seems that this will require funding from the backs of the populace in each region. The profits in monopolistic groups and the damage to the people. Competition between transport groups requires certain infrastructures to be in neutral hands, to ensure that it does not have a decisive advantage, so that the state character, which could have a part of a port, does not simply change the path of liberalisation of the transport which the government is currently carrying out, but in some cases is a necessary precondition for this privatisation. The main element of your ports policy is changes in labour relations at the expense of workers. Flexible forms of employment, the arrangement of daily and weekly time, the abolition of fixed, permanent and full-time working rights, the removal of insurance acquisitions, the abolition of working regulations, the reduction of the number of workers, the intensification of work and, of course, several others, with a view to the acquisition of greater value. Whether in the form of concessions of parts or in the form of privatisation of ports, anti-government measures aim to reduce the price of labour, suppress the workers' struggles, in working jungle conditions to maximize profitability. The example of 'COSCO', for which the New Democracy is proud, is well known. It has achieved key blows to the conquests of the port workers, such as the entry of contractors, the intensification of labour, the increase in working hours, the abolition of nights, holidays and holidays, the hitting of the institution of heavy and unhealthy professions. The collective labour agreement has expired since August 2017 for port workers in the PPA section and the ‘COSCO’, with your support, does not renew collective labour contracts, but is preparing for the next phase, such as for the extension of tyres, for all the port workers in the port of Piraeus and by extension to the ports of the whole country. It is well known that the employer is setting up employers' associations to overcome, prevent workers' struggles, thus continuing to remove rights, to block the claiming of rights. It signes with them, with these employers' associations, contracts on burdensome terms of employment for workers. The SYRIZA Government in February 2018 passed a law on the work on loading, which hits their rights, as well as the rights of the port workers. To PPA S.A. The new working regulation has passed. The anti-government changes to the new collective agreement signed by the employer with its miners, employers' and government unions were integrated. The capital is a uniform attack on the workers in all the ports of the country. They hit sectoral collective agreements, fundamental rights, exploit the government's strike laws on strikes. Employer and state terrorism at the port of Piraeus arm the murderous hand of the fascists of the Golden Dawn and we also had a trampat attack on the president of the port worker union and another criminal act. The situation in particular for those working in the new business groups or the various contractors who will provide services to the concessionaires will be much worse without their massive, combatative action, without their class union, without claiming their real needs. The bill promotes new privileges and tax exemptions for monopolies. It prohibits municipalities from imposing on business groups managing ports the fees, the electricity tax, the electricity supply tax, while at the same time the government continues to maintain the ENPIA, to charge the people with municipal fees, direct and indirect taxes, which rob most of the people's income. The Greek Shipowners' Association, with the support of the SYRIZA Government, as well as the previous governments, refuses to sign the 2010 collective agreements on seaports, with dramatic consequences for the wages and insurance and pension rights of seafarers on foothills. The first shipping, as you claim, is achieved by deep exploitation, with privileges, with state funding, with tax exemptions. It is characteristic that a shipowner with a hundred forty feet and twenty - five thousand tons of boat, with millions of profits, pays only $12,000 annually, that is, less than the lieutenant. The snakes organized each year by the shipowners and the government for the schools are to cover up the miserable situation that still exists for them. They anger students who daily fight to meet the needs of the educational program, pay money for books, photocopies, for schools from the poor income of the people's families. This degraded system of maritime education is what shipowners want and that is what governments keep. There are huge shortcomings in the content of the educational programme in teachers, in logistics and individuals, while private education dealers develop alongside each other. With the continuous intervention of the Government by laws and amendments, the requirements of the shipowners for the training of cheap labour with consumable knowledge to be re-examined every five years are fully met. According to the relevant proposal of the Ministry of Shipping, the certificate of competency acquired by the graduate of the AAR also remains with the current Government of SYRIZA without any equivalence and recognition with the corresponding degrees of land. The multiple clauses in the legislation show the impossibility of suspending privatisation at local level. Municipalities and regions are not simply able to stop privatization, but, as we have said, they are even banned from submitting local fees. Article 7 provides that port organisations, which now serve the needs of shipowners, also serve the needs of the obliged business groups, should be in their service to provide services with the employees of the organisation at such prices as to ensure the profit for the new owner. Article 10 abolishes the obligation to work on board vessels from the twenty-seven measures which have so far been in the twenty-four metres. There are therefore other privileges available to shipowners, and there will be another 'black' work on these ships up to twenty-four metres. Also, in the same article you grant the house of the Navy to known security companies known as industrial relations and the conditions of pay and work. You know, Minister - and we told you yesterday - that eight working guards of indefinite duration have been fired from the NAT after unification with the EFCA. They stayed out of work. In their efforts, they receive your sympathy. You're telling them orally they're right. And while now you could put them here to continue their work, you give the guard to a contractor. Articles of previous laws, repealed by Article 10, are further facilities for shipowners operating on pleasure boats. You shall abolish, in addition, the obligation on pleasure boats to be insured as laid down in Article 8. Ship capital has been partying for years and continues since the privileges are handed out by all governments and by yours. The unholy islands, the barren lines and every other service are paid dearly by the Greek people. We are not talking about immunity in the seas. We said the example the other day, Mr Minister, and you did not answer us. We were told that the bay of Naples is destroyed by ships which, by regulating tranjit anchorages are anchoring in Vatikas, are emptying the boars in the bay, resulting in a great increase in hake and, of course, the destruction of the self-employed in the area. That's what you're not talking about. Article 16 provides for the modernisation of the KESEN, as you say, Macedonia. But who are you talking about? There is no KESEN in Macedonia, Minister. There's no infrastructure. There are no teachers. Of course, you are planning to modernise it with an up-to-date and contractor. We also consider Article 19 to be hypocrisy on the introduction of a day to prevent maritime accidents and drowning. While supporting the immunity of shipowners to travel by boat soaps, without the appropriate organic crew composition for maximum safety, without prevention measures on the planes with compulsory seafarers, you are establishing a prevention day, during which with various events you will show any other reasons than your policy. Article 20 refers to the deletion of small vessels and the replacement of legal documents for owners who have been destroyed by the fire in Matti. We note that the measures which have so far been announced in total for the firemen in Matti have still not been implemented, with serious consequences for the permanent residents of the region. We hope that they do not have the same fate and that the arrangements relating mainly to self-employed fishermen in the region are not the same. In Article 21 you are talking about amending the Code of Public Maritime Law. The collective agreements are being circumvented by shipowners today with the support of the SYRIZA Government, even though you say that you support the collective agreements. The complaints made are, in fact, breaches, literally, by the door of your ministry, Minister. And here, your tolerance - if not your support - is, it seems, the government's class choice. By decision of the government, there are hundreds of eighty ships of boats of flags of convenience in internal maritime transport in the country. This is without the application of the respective Greek State collective labour agreement. That is what you want to legalise with Article 28, Minister. Because you answered me the other day, is it understood what Article 28 means, as you have it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. A freighter or tanker with Greek flag and international certificates, with three thousand one pound and over, as you say, provides that it belongs to the poder category. This means, in accordance with existing legislation, that at least six seafarers work under a collective labour agreement, insurance and trade union representation. The remaining crew under the same legislation are without collective agreements and aggregated total. That is what you do with Article 28, Minister. You can give shipowners the opportunity to go further than those few left for seafarers. The JRC fights the theories of the competitiveness chapter, the misleading dilemmas about private or state, as it fights growth on the basis of profit. We stress the need for socialisation of the main concentrated means of production in the strategic sectors of the economy, with a centrally-designed organisation serving the distribution of popular prosperity. The factors which favour unemployment on a massive scale cannot be eliminated otherwise. In the context of such a central planning, the country's port system can be an important role in its development. The JRC's proposal for ports, as part of transport, takes into account the fulfilment of priorities, as well as the fulfilment of domestic needs for the movement of persons, goods, emergency situations, for cheap, quick and safe transport. On the basis of these priorities, we believe that the development of ports should be planned.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u191	You must finish, Mr Katsoti. Please. I remove the above minutes from your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u192	I shall conclude, Madam President. We are voting against the draft law and we call on the port workers, the people to resist this policy and to collide with the JRC to overturn it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u193	Mr Nicholas Pappas has the floor to support an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would also like to thank the ministers for the opportunity they are giving us for this amendment. This amendment, in the first article, enables the body implementing the digital policy projects to conclude project contracts only for the duration of specific projects. In absolute transparency, the decisions of the Management Board and, of course, the project contracts will be taken, for work which does not cover fixed and permanent needs. I think it's a process, which is self-evident. The necessary steps have already been taken to make regular recruitment to the information society. Its deforestation, however, by staff, will mean very specific and significant delays in the implementation of digital policy projects. Paragraph 2 concludes the puzzle of operations, which is necessary for our Ministry to be able to initiate the procedures for recovering money from projects in which omissions have been identified in the previous programming period 2007-2013, which the audit mechanisms have pointed out. We now have to work together and in a way that it creates, I would say, legal certainty, to proceed to the recovery procedures. These are about 30 projects by the Information Society in the previous programming period, which amount to some million euros. With paragraph 3 - it is something, I think, quite simple - a small extension is given to network providers to be compatible with the development of their network on the basis of the updated frequency map. I'm talking about the TV signal. Paragraph 4 creates equivalency conditions for journalists workers in the public sector and also enables journalists in the public sector to be transferred to foreign press offices. So far, the law provided that only journalists from the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Digital Policy have this possibility. Finally, Article 5 concerns the possibility for the National Telecommunications and Post Committee to adopt a regulation on the transparency and information obligations of parcel service providers, as well as the specific terms and conditions for the objective assessment of cross-border invoices in cross-border delivery services. I think that every member of the National Representation is aware of the importance of the parcel transport, and indeed of the need for cross-border transport, in application of the relevant European regulation, a very clear framework for how the providers of these services should be dealt with. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u195	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u196	Madam President, on a point of order, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u197	For the amendments again? Six are and four have been developed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u198	In general, there are no amendments, within the meaning of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, which are interventions in legislative texts. Legislation's coming. I now count four - five articles on one, six articles on the other. I do not think the Bureau should continue to accept that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u199	This is not the responsibility of the Bureau, it is the Minister who introduces the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u200	The Minister must respect both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u201	Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u202	Madam President, because yesterday in the respective bill, the amendments that are in articles are in the insect, but in the resolution the amendment is a whole. If we want to vote on an article, we cannot because the vote is on the whole. I say that this is an issue that the Bureau has to resolve with the services.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u203	The Bureau is not. Thanks anyway. Now the last speaker from the Centroon Association, Mr Georgiadis, will take the floor, and then I will give the floor to the Minister. Come on, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Madam President. A comment from me, too. We have said so many times, as a group of centralists, that the amendments which come as separate drafts of law are a common phenomenon for this government, but of course also for the previous governments, and at some point we must respect parliamentaryism, as were also committed to the debates of the Rules of Procedure and many members of the Government and many of my fellow Members, to pass at least first from the committees the amendments, even at the last moment that they are, to be able to discuss them, if not the bodies too. I don't see that change. I don't know when it'll change if it changes. However, we will continue to condemn it - and I say that in introductory terms. Ladies and gentlemen, another obligation to the Troika, and the quartet comes to satisfy the current draft law with the so-called concessions to private individuals in the activities of ten regional ports, which are indeed in the ministerial decision to rank under number 8315 of 2 February 2007, is also characterised as an international interest. I will not mention the names of the ports, because they are well known and I do not need to delay this. This is really'silver' and I say it in the good sense, since they show the statistics of a total year of traffic in goods and passengers combined with their geographical and even their geostrategic advantages. The prospects for growth are very important in the context of the maritime routes and trans-European and national transmission networks. In particular for Alexandroupolis, there are already strong international interest, as strategic opportunities are presented, since there will be the first gas storage and transportation station for liquefied gas, the so-called LNG. The Greek ports, therefore, could say that they are crossroads of three continents and basic gates of entry into the European Union, which are productive infrastructures of vital importance to our national economy. We in the Central Association believe that this strategic position of the ports is reasonable to require investment, not necessarily public, in order to further expand and transform, of course, into combined transport hubs, not the way the government brings them out, which really came to the thorns and unprepared to look in general for investors, and I say this because there was not the slightest design, nor a study to define in every port its comparative advantages, nor even to decide which ports will work aggressively, which are complementary and which aids. So for the draft law we have to say and comment on the following: starting with Articles 1 to 7 on ratification of concessions, I have to say that there are some negative provisions. For example, I will start with the argument about the proposed method of retreating individual activities, which is really unconvincing. The statement of reasons that it is no longer beneficial to the public interest is entirely arbitrary, since no evidence is provided to support it and I will once again say that there is no single report and no information is provided from the long-term European practice invoked. We have asked the committees three times to be given publicity or to be given to us, to all the members of the committee, even one study proving what was claimed by the Ministry and the answer was that what we received from the European Union in response is that 80% of the ports are granted in this particular way. As an example, the port of Antwerp is mentioned, which may well be the largest in Europe. Such comparisons are made, but we really do not take into account the Greek peculiarities and we should have a real study in our hands so that we can document what is said in the draft law and the Ministry. Indeed, the committee was told that the government fought with the troika to secure this model. They are words that no one is convinced, since it is this SYRIZA government that has granted state property for nine years all our public property and at first the White Tower and the museums have not even missed it. We are therefore not convinced that competitiveness is better guaranteed and that public risk is reduced, so the benefit is maximised. Get to the limit now of 5% for the fee to port agencies for the annual gross receipts of the sub-accessor referred to in Article 4. In fact, no reference is made to what logic this limit is entering or on the basis of what viability study this rate has been selected as a maximum. We just heard that the Troika was proposing and accepted by the government, so it could be comfortable to assume that this is also an arbitrary percentage. So we are well-founded that this 5% or 4% will probably prove low in the future, so inevitably the role of port agencies may be diminished, because they will not have sufficient revenue. The third comment concerns the Greek State, which, under Article 3(1), contributes to the performance of the terms of the contracts, without further clarification as to which obligations it undertakes. We would like some explanations, Minister, for you, so that we can know what the Greek State is taking on. Fourth comment. It is foreseen that technical monitoring of the implementation of investments and contracts is contrary to an independent mechanism which is controlled and rewarded by the sub-accessor. We realise that most likely by this method is that he as an independent engineer will reach conclusions in line with the wishes of the one who pays him. If the Ministry really wanted to ensure the public interest in a better way and transparency, it could provide that this option will be made by the port body. And, in the final analysis, it is poorly stated in the explanatory statement that this particular involvement of the independent consultant has been successfully implemented at the Piraeus and Thessaloniki Ports, because very simply, as we have said in the committees, the investments for these ports are still at an initial stage and therefore the safe conclusions from this development have not yet been made. I continue with Articles 8 to 11 on the responsibilities of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy and on the recruitment of pilots. We agree with the competition whenever he does. But we disagree with the practices adopted. It is clear that they have nothing to do with transparency or impartiality, firstly because the inspection of applications is carried out by the Ministry's Administrative Services Directorate, namely, essentially by the Minister's office on the basis of Article 8(3), secondly, because the Tripartite Committee for the Examination is set up by the Minister and consists of members of the Ministry who are existing on the basis of Article 8(5) and, thirdly and more importantly, the AACC is absent, since no reference is made to Article 8. With regard to Articles 12 and 13, we consider the extension of the responsibilities of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy. Although it is unacceptable that the finalisation of expenditure has not been completed for nine years and that there are very large operational problems, we are relying on the word of the Deputy Minister, and I really believe that at the end of the day you will implement it, especially since you promised it to the committee and finally that the issue of drinking water transport on the islands will be resolved, and from summer onwards there will be desalination facilities. For the 14 to 16, on the other important issue dealt with by the draft law, namely maritime education, the first point is that everyone was aware of the time problems encountered in the Commercial Navy academies with permanent training staff, particularly seafarers, masters, engineers and so on. They have been chronic deficiencies in the question of staffing teachers. The regulations, which are so late in the regulatory framework, are nevertheless considered to be fragmentary, however, without taking into account the need to develop an integrated framework for maritime education with solutions that will strengthen the status of academia and improve the programme of training provided and, of course, also strengthen the training staff on a permanent basis rather than a fragmentation. For Articles 17 to 20 with the arrangements of the Port Police in the amendments to the General Port Regulation and the provisions on lifeguards, we have no objection. We also agree with the removal from the register of small vessels recorded in the fires of summer. In Article 21 and in the maritime labour provisions, we agree with the proposed extension of the protection of the remuneration of seafarers. Let's go to Articles 22 to 31 and the provisions of the Hellenic Coast Guard's Port Corps. I will make a reference in particular to Article 22 on the beneficial provisions for children and his wife, who have been devastated in the service of Commander of the Port Authority of Mr.Kyriakos Papadopoulos. We are clearly in favour - and we have said so in committee - of the relevant regulation and the state is quite right to respond. It is well known that the huge work that the port executive and his offer to rescue thousands of refugees had offered home in the course of the refugee crisis. But as I have said to the committee, Minister, the Government without serious arguments once again shows that it does not deal with the same conditions and other cases of the fallen in service of colleagues, and I should say this to you - and once again from the Stepma, Minister - to take care of these members and the children of these families and to have a generalization of this provision and not just for a particular person, because we have seen that there are many negative developments in requests from other families. With regard to Article 25 and with regard to the transitional regulation for empty organic port guards, we really do not have much confidence that this tender can be conducted in accordance with the necessary transparency. We discussed this in committee too, Minister. You have already pointed out that the AACC is not a mere observer. However, it does not specify the involvement of the AACC, which, despite being present in the committee, does not mention any of its responsibilities. So we want to have a clear framework of involvement of the AACC in carrying out the appointments and that the initiatives will really be at the end of the day for the services of the Ministry. Also, for Article 26, for the extension of powers, the prestige of the Hellenic Coast Guard and the Greek Coast Guard will undoubtedly be strengthened, but it is sufficient for the government to ensure that the limits are cleared in relation to the police. This will resolve more effectively the problems that have arisen and which have in the past been and will be concrete - we could say - between the Port Authority and the Greek Coast Guard and the Police. Our position is 'the present' in principle and 'the present' as a whole, and we certainly want to see the last amendments, which have been tabled, because, as has been said by colleagues, they contain several articles and they are not just a page, a legal improvement or a simple amendment, but they are whole draft laws that require a particular study. So we shall be voting during the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and six educational attendants from the Municipal School of Thousands of Corinthia and from the private Municipal School of "Saint Joseph" Volos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, while I should like to begin my position with a special reference to the draft law, some other issues have been raised, which, if you like, are in a connection with the subject of investment. I have heard, for example, from the spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Plakatakis, that he should succeed against the government and say that the delay, as he said, regarding the master plan of the PPA - COSCO, is nothing but an ideological behaviour on the part of the SYRIZA Government. I feel the obligation to inform you, but also to inform everyone who is listening to us, to consider the following. By transferring the majority of the PPA package to ‘COSCO’ and ratifying the relevant concession agreement between Greek State and PPA SA, the Chinese company undertook to implement a series of mandatory investments, while it was able to implement additional investments. I would like to point out that PPA SA had an obligation to prepare a master plan, which would include the overall investment plan, namely compulsory and additional or optional, as they call it, investment of the organisation and to submit it for approval to the Ports Planning and Development Committee, i.e. to ESAL. It should also be noted, for our part, that the ESA is an Interministerial Committee whose president is the Secretary-General of the ports and members of government departments and agencies. It is chaired, that is, by the Secretary-General of Ports, Mr Christos Lambridis. On 19 February 2019, and before the expiry of the deadline, the ESRB met and decided. It unanimously approved the investments laid down in Annex 7.2 to the concession agreement. In particular, it approved the extension of the passenger port to a cruise passenger station, the underground connection between the car station and the former port infrastructure, the improvement and maintenance of the port infrastructure, the supply of port equipment, the dredging of the central port, the preparation of studies, the construction of new oil wells, the extension of a car station, the improvement of a shipbuilding repair area infrastructure. For investments proposed by PPA SA as additional investments, the ESA decided. It approves the following investments: ecological buses, construction of a cruise passenger station in the area of the southern zone of the port only in the part clearly related to the passenger station, while rejecting the proposed investment of the recreation centre, Mr. Placiotakis, including non-port commercial uses, i.e. malls, cinemas and similar. For example, I ask you: are you prepared to become a mall from PPA S.A.? Conversion of "Pagoda" to a hotel of five stars and converting warehouses into a hotel of four and five stars and provided that the approval of a change in the use of the buildings concerned by the Ministry of Culture is preceded by an opinion from the Ministry of Culture and the council of New Monuments of the Ministry of Culture, and the conversion of the stone warehouse to a museum in Klossiadis. However, we rejected the investments made by the ESA. What investments? A new warehouse in the former area of the RAG, two five-hour car parks, with an area of 75,000 square meters in area C2. The majority rejected it. And you know why? The study concerned errors, ambiguities with regard to the investment figures. It also considered that investment could not be assessed: construction of a ship building for mega yachts in region C1, because a decision is pending by the Council of State against the PPA on the subject and construction of a five-star hotel in Porto Leone, pending the examination of the proposal by the Central Archaeological Council. Finally, it was underlined by the ESA that authorisations for compulsory and additional investments are provided that no objections are raised both in the adoption of the strategic environmental impact study and in the examination by the CST. And we told the committees - four were the meetings - on several occasions. So what idealism leads us - why did you tell us - to not have these investments? Of course there are. Who, though, does not agree that any study, any investment - and I refer to individual investments - must ensure legality? And legal is the decision - crisis of the Ministry of the Environment, legality is also the crisis, assessment and decision of the Ministry of Culture by its councils. If there is an objection to this, it is because, to the extent that the government is not present and that is why it is ideologically acting on investment, then this is not only unfounded, it is also rough and I would say it is also insulting to the truth itself and to the reality. And I come to the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this draft law doing? It gives the port agencies the opportunity - it is 10 numbers, you know them, I will not mention them, it is all our regional major ports - by means of concessions to attract private investment in order to develop investment activities. Other ports are offered and can serve the activity for containers, but others may be commercial, but others may be commercial and industrial, but others may be active in marinas, cruises etc. And I must tell you that this model, which was mainly challenged by the Civic Opposition, is the model of concessions that applies to over 80% throughout Europe. And it's not just Antwerp that's a comparative size. There are many other ports and even smaller ports than our own regional ports. He did not grant the Greek public ownership to anyone else. And tell you what's wrong with him? The law does not allow the entire port to be taken by an investor, i.e. it does not allow total withdrawal. The question has been asked to the committees and here: Is it possible for a port to which an investment will be made not to cooperate with a port? The correct reading of the bill will lead to the certainty of anyone who reads the bill that not only is it not forbidden to cooperate in a single port with the activity of another port, but it is clearly foreseen and speaks of the combined activities that the investor himself may have. So, for example, if this port, Philip II of Kavala, for example, needs to cooperate on the subject of the trade with the port of Volos in Pagasitikos, nothing is prevented from taking part in a specific competitive procedure - for which I will speak to you - and also from ensuring that the activities between the two ports are collected. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] And how are concessions going to be made? It will be on the basis of an international tendering procedure, on the basis of a specific proposal to assess the possibility of the port and the return on the investment. It will, in other words, be a transparent, clean competition, on the basis of our national law and Union law. With regard to the compensation fee, the government, in fact, after having ensured that the ownership of the ports is not granted, but only activities using the method of concessions, asked for there to be - and we legislate - the 5% compensation fee from which the local government will also receive. And there's not what I heard in the committees, 5% from here, 3% from there, tomorrow, 10%, 15%, here's the 30% tax burden on the investor. And what investor? But this isn't about it. And an increase in the compensation fee, i.e. 5%, will be based on a specific study assessing the viability of the port organisation, always in contact with the investment. Isn't that right? What injury is there for any investor to come and invest? Absolutely nothing. Otherwise, it's erection, Mr. Placiotakis! We had to tell them "Come, take all the ports, get nothing from the Greek State, get nothing from the Local Government and be your ports". That's not our choice. If you serve this conception, this model, you say it clearly. We are not in the same development school. We want growth to be sustainable, fair and the result of growth to spread to Greek society, to the joints of Greek society. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece we had the highest growth indicators and in 2000 and 2002 and 2004, the highest in the Eurozone. My question: Who was the fruitmaker? Who was affected by this development? A few years later, we led to the economic crisis. The few of them were fruited by the economic elites of the country. We don't want that development. I would point out that we ports want them to see at sea, but do not have their backs on land, that is to say, to serve growth both at national and local level and, of course, to shape jobs. I have heard Mr Katsiotis' remark and thank him. The labour relations of workers in port agencies are not changing, and I am referring to paragraph 4 of Article 5 of the draft law. And I make the following interpretative statement: "In paragraph 4 of Article 5 of the draft law stipulates that the general staff regulations and the rules for the internal operation and organisation of port agencies S.A., whose main concessions with the Greek State are to be ratified, under the terms of this draft law, are to be maintained and after the conclusion of the concession contracts referred to in Article 2. That is to say, the working rights of workers in port bodies are fully guaranteed in accordance with the provisions of Law 1876/1990. It is further clarified that following the conclusion of the concession contracts provided for in Article 2 of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, the employment relations of the persons employed in port agencies S.A. They are still governed by the provisions of Law 1876/1990, i.e. 'free collective bargaining and other provisions'. This is the title of the law. Therefore, it is expressly stated that the remuneration of the staff of the port authorities S.A. They are defined each time by the operational collective agreements concluded by the port authorities with the workers' trade unions, as defined in the prefecture I mentioned, i.e. Law No 1876/1990. And I put the relevant interpretative statement in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u207	Ladies and gentlemen, many other issues have been raised which I am committed to in progress and progress in the debate to speak more thoroughly. Of course, there is also the chapter on the Hellenic Coast Guard. There is also the question of education. A great deal has been said during the committee's work for four consecutive days, but I will come back in order to provide the necessary explanations and answers. However, while remaining on the brink of the bill, i.e. on the concessions, I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that port policy, namely the development of ports, is in no way leaving planning out. And we have completed our proposal and study, and in a few days' time you will be able to see it and assess it, because it is an important proposal. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'll just say one more word. I understand that from the present government, the Greek people are asking for all problems to be solved. We want to solve them, and we have come to a solution for too many of what had not been resolved for thirty, forty and for fifty years. Port policy has not existed in our country for fifty years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u209	Because they have asked to intervene two parliamentary representatives, namely Mr Hadjisavvas and Mr Loverdos, we will give them the floor. Mr. Loverdo, we must propose Mr. Hadjisavva because he participates in a committee. Immediately after you wish to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u210	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u211	Shouldn't we start the two-speaking list?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u212	No, don't do that, Mr. President. I'm urgent.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u213	Emergency, all right. I'll give the floor to Mr. Hadjisavva, then you talk, and then we'll start the list. Here, Mr. Hadjisavva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much. It is sad to hear a government minister say that he is simply managing the transfer of property a little better than the previous ones, and it is also sad to see that there are ever-timed amendments - huge amendments with many articles - that the least speakers or the parliamentary representative of the parties should be able to speak about them and justify his position. Of course, our position is a little easier, because we will vote against the bill. And we are voting against it for a specific reason. And we have said that if you want to vote in favour of a bill, this bill should be the abolition of the Prespecies Agreement. Bring her to vote to abolish and see and discuss all the other things, although you are not trying to solve any problems of the people, you are trying to solve problems of your own, problems that you have created. I will only take one amendment, but I will talk about the strengthening of the citizenship addresses of the Ministry of Interior. You're loading them to decentralized administration to settle with other services and to be paid from there. And that is not the problem of the Greek people, it does not solve the problem of the Greek people. His problem is he's paying. Now whether they're paid by one service or the other doesn't care. They are electricity, water, communications, leases, electrical equipment, electronic equipment, postal services, graphics supplies or consumables. Why do I report them? You have created the false impression to the people that service is provided in relation to the Ministry dealing with immigration - whether it is citizenship or anything - that the Greek people do not pay money and all this comes in the form of million-dollar packages to manage either the NGOs or the government and is a gift. Nothing is a gift, the Greek people pay it all. Indicative of the situation is that the median establishment has been consumed in the last few days in threats and in various magic by Minister of State or Minister of State to Stournara, different cases of same gravity and seriousness. What happened today, huh? Today was the end of the ultimatum of Polakis to Stournara. He had to go visit him at the Central Bank. I don't know if he went, but if I'm judging that he didn't even support his position that he had recorded it and regretted it, because they told him it was a felony, I don't know if he's going. Of course, the drama of the case is that even two and three lives worked by the Greek citizen could never convince any bank to give him any consumer loan of this value, 100,000 euros, which we all know the consumer loan does not require anything, you get it to do whatever you want. Two first-class former ministers, on the other hand, when they were active and when they were running serious national issues, such as the name of Skopje - who finally gave them what they wanted - at a time when Erdogan and his ministers claimed from the Aegean collapsing, exchanged messages, threatened to reveal each other for mismanagement of funds and the Sms messages had threats of "I will finish you, I will make you, I will break you". But what does Kammenos reveal in relation to mismanagement, especially for visas? We had repeatedly denounced, as Golden Dawn, things that were badly managed for visas, but for micro-political interests - basically, to keep the chair from losing, because it was the Minister of Government - he was not looking to get them out of the chair, but he was running away from the chairs when rival MPs reported the evidence about this mismanagement. Now we hear from his mouth doing some ridiculous reports of marble violets and twenty minutes of case and stuff like that. These are from unrelated people who speak of needless situations. They don't know what's going on on the border, and for the time being with his own policy, but also political decades friendly to the government of Skopje, you cross the border like this. With one ID, you can go shopping or casino. Even in twenty minutes you can't pass the expectation of hundreds and thousands of Greeks waiting there to get in there and leave their money in Skopje, condemning the Greek market - at least - impoverished. Now, of course, with this counterfeiting, and with the acceptance that the neighbouring state is entitled to a part of our history by name, it is clear that this problem will be gigantic. You therefore get "congratulations" from the European Union, from NATO, from Trump and rightfully with the purpose you served as SYRIZA and ANEL, i.e. as Tsipras and Kammenos, you have a place in the candle of the picture of Zaev and Soros. The internal circular, which forces two public bodies to use the new name of Skopje and its non-use in public documents, will make it unacceptable and will be returned. So we return this circular that obliges the adoption of the name, because we do not accept any state with the word "Macedonia" or the derivative of the word. As regards the ratification of the concession we are debating today, SYRIZA and the Prime Minister, of course, said that the concession was a sale of public property and talked about ports, airports, transport, telecommunications, energy. They said it was a national dividend, a sale, an assignment. We saw you in marches and occupations, on the railings, on various other manifestations of your revolutionary or pseudo revolutionary policy, in order to safeguard the vote of the Greek people who were against the sale in general. And Paulakis said we wouldn't give the Germans the keys. Not only did you give them, but you left the doors open with the keys up. You have just made a verbal slogan, and you say, for example, that it is development, progress, modernisation, strengthening the ports to Volos, Corfu, Heraklion, Igoumenitsa, Alexandroupolis, Kavala, Patras and elsewhere, 10 to the total, that is, all the remaining ones after the assignment of the two major ports. Thus, the TIADED can give these ports for use, as appropriate, coastline, cruise, station, container, etc. It is not just a sale, but it is also the preparation through the depreciation of the ports of the country, so that society does not react, of course, after that, but with some repercussions on all levels of society, such as on the market for tourism, to the workers working in the ports, to shipping and to trade. You devalued the ports. It was like they didn't have ports. You brought them into a situation that you think none of the citizens will react there, because anyway he says to you: "We didn't have the ports. And where were we here, what happened? There was no job." However, they come to frustrate you the financial results of organisations that show almost everything, except for one, positive balance and profits. The workers' reactions are on their way. The President of the Greek Port Office clearly says that many problems will arise for the already workers. I said one of them that it was the lack of prediction, because there is no provision for collective agreements for the workers already in work. We understand, in other words, what is going to happen sooner or later. All this is handled by the Ministry of Shipping. Sometimes, of course, we do not understand whether it is the Ministry of Shipping or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It makes several announcements, which are sometimes out of reality. We see here that they also had a meeting with the Koreans to give shipping equipment. Our shipyards did it! They've been desolated! There are some individuals struggling there to keep some jobs, bring foreign exchange and targeted tax. You're trying to finish them, too. We have, of course, references to national issues from the Ministry of Shipping. Sometimes we say that they did not read the agreement and that it was like some ministers or MPs once said that they signed the memorandum without reading it. In this connection, a press release on the Prespecies Agreement states that the agreement is clear and does not grant ethnicity or language. I don't know if we read a different deal, but ethnicity is Macedonian and the Macedonian language, which has been given. How is it clear that it is not granted? We are now reaching the common enemy. Who is the common enemy of all those who serve the policies I mentioned before? It's the far right, the Golden Dawn, so we don't fool ourselves. What extreme right? They speak of a powerful left-wing and progressive pole toward deepest conservation and extreme right and they say "It is toward us". Of course we're across from you. What do you represent, in other words, as a left progressive pole or the neoliberals who were before? The memos? Of course we're across from you. The EDUCA that has devastated the whole society, independent of economic background? Of course we're across from you. The overtaxation? In front of you. The departure of young people abroad? We want them to come back and have good working conditions and a future here, in Greece. The anti-Christianness you serve? Against you all the way to the end. The criminalisation of the Greek national identity? Yes, we are vertical and fanatical to all of this, that is to say, with the people who as a whole are toward you, that is, with us. Also, for the Prime Minister's visit to Ankara, we have a press release that says that it is important to visit and independently if we do not ensure the result, etc., it concludes by saying "All of course you must expect them according to what Mr Erdogan's position will be as regards the situation in the wider region of the southeast Aegean and the Mediterranean". So, you major strategic and political analysts, what do you say Erdogan's position on these issues? Yours is unexistent. I know that. But what is Erdogan's position? We have another press release talking about the posts. In an interview at ERT's First Programme Mr. Kouvelis commented on Yildirim's arson statements, who did not say anything against the Greeks! "We conclude that we are in an undeclared war in the Aegean," he added. "This is the position of Ertogan," which escalates the infringements in the Aegean. For two weeks George Baltador was on guard, when his plane fell, and he is the conditions that Mr Erdogan brings us. And you wonder what these positions might be. Another position, therefore, this time is: "Greece does not claim anything from anyone" stressed by Trikala, where the Deputy Minister of National Defence Fotis Kouvelis once spoke. Is this our position on Erdogan's absolute claim, when you brought him here and legalised him when no other state recognized him? The position of Erdogan and the Turks is clear. He held two soldiers hostage for months. It says that it requires a co-existence of the Aegean and its resources. He talks about a Muslim bow that will hit Turkey's enemies. He says he will send his wells to Cyprus, without care if there will be war or conflict, that we will be thrown at the sea by Greeks, as they have done before, that they want the "blue home" and the borders of their hearts. Know that sooner or later, they will lose from the "blue flag" and the power of our hearts, because we are not the little Greek that some of you, the representatives of ethnicism, want to convince the Greeks that we are. We are the strong, compact national, linguistic and religious, eternal Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u215	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the political leadership of the Ministry of Shipping is not made up of dialogs, two-month or five-month remnants. There's no dysosmia, that is. So we can talk politically. Also, it is not made up of ministers who are interpreting and also, we do not have people in the Ministry who were "macedomers" and who voted for the Prespecies Agreement, so they should be abdicated to speak to them. We are talking about a normal leadership, and so, I repeat, we can talk politically. In addition, SYRIZA's majority-majority rapporteur, Mrs Gara, in moderation and in an effort to give the content of the draft law, made her suggestions both today and in the permanent committee and I will react to it. I also had the opportunity to listen to the Secretary General of the Ministry, Mr. Temponer, at an event in Piraeus, and it seemed to me like a working man. I therefore believe that I am addressing people who can understand what is what I am going to say. I have also been watching - reading, because I am not a member of the committee - the interventions of the bodies. I was impressed that, on the one hand, Mr Drivakos and, on the other, Mr Red, who was supposed to represent the workers in the port, officers and other staff, would expect to have a relevance to their views. They said opposite things. I was surprised, though. I have also watched many of the operators refer to provisions in a positive way, such as, for example, the representative of short-distance shipowners, but at the end, we hope you will not change them. Because I have heard that you will bring changes, technical changes or anything, we are waiting for us to deliver a final opinion, to have these contributions as well. What didn't you say, Mrs. Gara? You said today, but also in your other speeches, that all the acts had to be legally ratified, all the agreements that had been made in 2003, which had been agreed by the port agencies with the public concession and, as I heard, I understood, when you were still in committee, that there is an irrational delay. It's not like that. These contracts were only normally implemented because the concessions provided for in the specific regulations and provided for and those contracts must be ratified by law, in the opinion of the GOI, so that the GOI asked you to ratify by law and the contract - uterus, that is, the ten contracts made in 2003. These are contracts I repeat - look at Article 3(7) - which have provided for a withdrawal since then. So here we have a political issue, your contradiction with your old self, the competence of the Communist Party to remind you of it. We welcomed you in these practices, which are beneficial to the country. In 2003, we were government, as PASOK, but there are some who, until yesterday, until 2014, called them about the same thing, but you did exactly the opposite to practice. And because we are talking about Piraeus and I see Mr Dritsa, I would like to present the speech of the Prime Minister, then Chief of Anti-Population before the 2014 European elections, to see what he said, by addressing the insurgent of Piraeus and the port of agony. That, please, I'm filing it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I rarely submit such texts to the House, but they are so typical of what the change has been said and creepy, which I think is a good thing for any Member and any journalist who wants to remember, to have them before him. You were talking about these airports. Your Minister today, he said that if the airport of his city intervenes the "FRAPORT", he will go and lie down in the hallway. I didn't see him. I didn't see anyone lying in the hallways. You said the same thing about the ports, with phrases that were terribly intense: "National and economic crime the sale of the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki", "SYRIZA declares in every direction that the sale of the Piraeus Port Authority and the EGC will be cancelled and responsibility for the damage will be sought", on 7-11-2014, that is, on the eve of the elections that brought you to power by a difference. But let's see, beyond what you're adding, what you're talking about about the ten ports in the draft law. But, before I go into this, there was a discussion about the existence or lack of study about what the Deputy Minister, Mr Santorinios, said something clever: "Good. There are no studies, indeed.’ He conspired that. There was for PPA a clever intervention that I cannot remember, because when the first act took place in the Minister of Vulgarakis. I don't remember if there were any studies at the time. But I see this privatisation going too far in your hands too. I now remember Mr Dritsa here, as Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs, what he said when he brought supplementary arrangements for the PPA and also, I see in the PLTH, privatised with some EUR 200 million, but, as Mr Carras said, he omitted to point out that he had 67 million reserves, which should be deducted from the total price, to see how he was finally privatised. I'm not standing on it. I consider privatisation to be a positive step. Investment projects do not see there - we are able to monitor - not half and we want investment projects to be carried out in the OLF. We want the privatisation and investment envisaged to go ahead. So let's go see some things about the development that you're intervening with. Mrs Gara, it is very problematic that the Minister for Tourism cannot answer the question how many marinas - it is not your responsibility - have been inaugurated for four years. None. He told me here that for the first time he was formulated in the provisions of a Presidential Decree, which etc., etc. We don't even know if this presidential decree, which it didn't have to do, has been completed. But here a ministry of nearly co-responsibility can tell us, since he cares so much about development. Have you, as a government, done anything about the development of the country in relation to the marinas? A promotional energy you've done for four years? It wasn't you, Mr. Kuveli, four years in this ministry, but you're a minister of this government. Nothing has happened. But now let's go see what you're talking about. I have heard you say here - and indeed you have spoken seven to eight minutes - how long you stand against the policy of granting the whole of a port and that, in these ten ports, you are predicting concessions rather than a total concession. Tell me: Who has 100% of the shares of port agencies? The HICP. If the GOI grants these shares or sells them, it does not pass all the ports to the one who buys them. Tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u217	There's no share transfer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u218	How isn't there? Where is the transfer prohibited? I want you to tell me the order of law. If you tell me the law order, I'm wrong in my criticism. I have no problem admitting it. That's all we say here. We're gonna make some mistakes. But tell me where the transfer of all shares is forbidden, to tell you what you have done here. Here, with Article 3, what do you say? You say that for each withdrawal a three-way contract should be concluded and the company that will take over the concession, the TIADE and, of course, the representative of the port concerned. Isn't that right? Who is the shareholder of all ten ports? Is it or isn't the HICP? What's the TIAD? Isn't that a subsidiary of the Supreme Court you've given public property for a hundred years under foreign command? This is your picture. We politically follow the issues. Therefore, extremities of economic patriotism or supposedly left policy to us cannot be done. We are monitoring these, step by step, and if you have any other opinion to express, listen and admit our mistakes. But these are pictures. See Article 3, which you are bringing here as a provision of the draft law, and Mr Karras also pointed out details - critical, but - over disagreement what is going to happen, what happens next, if the thirty days of the deadline for the administration to agree to the port administration go unrealistic. Are you going to run to the courts? I am very pleased to tell you that you have worked on Article 3, which is your own contribution to what was foreseen in 2003. One of the prisoners. Secondly, the prisoner, this 5% that is an investment term, a burden borne by the deportee, the investor, say that if the financial circumstances so require, it may increase. Is that an investment term? I can't hear him like that. On the contrary, I see him as an economic term not attracting the investors. And 2% of the fees, the compensatory fee that you do that 3.5%, and this is also borne by the port agency. What is this weight grid that adds your draft law to this process? Are you ruining the things you've found since 2003, or are you making them? So far something that builds something more positive we, at least, cannot see. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask you two more minutes. If you give it to me, it's fine. They tell you about the existence of studies. I'd hear it as a luxury argument. But if you see them after four years when you're government, you can't claim to be a luxury critic. You have four years. Was it the four years that you needed to overcome your guilt? You've wasted too much time. The country's wasted a lot of time. If it was four productive years, you had to tell us where you see it. Members from ports, like your rapporteur, have experience. They know what's being discussed here and there. But you do not have that individual knowledge. That is why, Mr Deputy Minister, I see your own argument for the first studies intelligently, but also reasonablely the argument that after four years you had to have direction and direction you have none at all. as you have also been politically provoked by many speakers, including our rapporteur, Mr Carras, to tell us the names of investors and you, Mr Plakkatakis, have mentioned this. Names of companies that want to be future investors, future investment companies, to understand how you are moving, but you haven't included this in your settings either. Finally, Minister, your bodies have asked for a change in the composition of the boards, but you have not changed the composition of the port boards. They're still the same. Are spaces very useful to the professional life of the place and to the development, which are being asked here in Parliament for representation on the administrative boards of ports, to listen to them and to add them? I'm not saying remove anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u219	He's made a commitment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u220	But this is where we have the law. What's he made up? In a few months we have an election. You now have the law. You bring amendments, drafts of law whole. A five-added device can't you do? Do you have to study it? You've been here for so many days and you've been studying it here. Not even that provision? Finally, I will say about Kyriakos Papadopoulos at the price of which we are all speaking here today. It is right that the intervention made by Mr Drivakos to ask you, beyond the family of this man, the hero in which he is deprived of the Ministry and rightly so, to see in general the problem with the people who are sacrificed on his duty. Why do you hesitate? They are neither excessive expenditure, nor anyone would object. You could've made it on the basis of what happened to you. As far as - and with this I am closing down, Mr President - the increases in the responsibilities of the Port I understand, as a legal person, as a legal person, as responsibilities that extend to problems that occur in the caucasians, that you have them as officials who intervene in the preliminary - so I understand that the others do not understand - we mean that the conditions are specific. Because when the conditions are not specific, even for the local responsibilities, the implosion will be very great and the delays will be too much. I will close because neither the amendments nor the final provisions which may be needed and I shall take the floor. We are voting against them, but some provisions will be adopted. We reserve until we see how you make their final structure, their final wording. But remember what I'm about to say now: Greek citizens have banned endurance on the last line, because you owe it, since you are still at the limits of your term of office. But they are waiting with strong determination for the elections to deal with you in the same way you have dealt with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u221	Good. Thank you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I would like the floor for a minute for clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u223	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u224	Obviously, there is some misunderstanding or rather not made clear. I am referring to what my colleague said just now. Once the TIAD transfers the right to concession and then retreat, there is no need to transfer - and because I am addressing a valid legal - transfer and transfer of the package of shares. That's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u225	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u226	Secondly, Mr President, I hear about port policy, lack of plans and so on. Perhaps it was an omission on our part that we did not note it in the committees. Each port organisation has deposited master plan. The master plan of each port organisation includes the dimensions mentioned in the development arm. As a result, with a guide to the master plan - and with great pleasure the master plan is at your disposal the organisations have submitted it - there are those possibilities that will make use of parts of the port for investment and specific activities. Master plan is there and make a thought. Master plan is offered by the ‘ASA’, i.e. the ‘COSCO’. Master plan submitted by the Port Authority of Thessaloniki. Master plan deposit all ten regional ports.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u227	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u228	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u229	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo? The Minister made clarification. Question you want to ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u230	A phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u231	What phrase now? You had time, you developed your argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u232	I'm not going to bother you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u233	Okay, but please don't delay. Just a minute at most.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u234	You are right to say, Minister, that the possibility of transferring all of the shares to the extent that Article 3 operates and that there is a company in which a concession is made cannot be made. You're right about what you're saying. However, the non-existence of an investor and the persistence of the situation as it has given rise to the possibility or rather no provision prevents the transfer of all shares. If you have the provision that forbids this, please tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u235	It's a self-destructive consequence. No need for a provision, Mr. Comrade. Look at it, and I'm sure if you see it, you'll agree with what I'm saying. As long as it provides the activities with the draft law, the so-called concessions, the transfer of shares does not need to be carried over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u236	We said that too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u237	And there is no need for a provision, which is forbiddingly working, as you said. Because one covers and ensures the previous one. That's why I talked to you using a term from legal science. It's a self-destructive consequence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u238	Good. Thank you, Minister. We shall give the floor to Mrs Papanatsiou and Mrs Ahtsioglou to develop the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u239	When are we going to talk, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u240	Then we'll get on the list. Look, as long as the ministers are here, they can develop a proposal. If you do not accept it, all right, we do not object as Bureau. But, because there are two amendments, which are left to support the respective ministers, there may be questions - if there are - to put them on the list from there too. Come on, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. This is the amendment with a general figure of 1974 and a specific figure of 54. What is the first article of the amendment? It is the amendment of Article 25 of Law 4464/1965. The legal representation of the Deposit and Loans Fund shall be fully covered on the basis of the present needs and shall be regulated in procedural and operational matters. The Deposit and Loan Fund shall operate a Legal Adviser’s office, which shall be composed of two alternates and two judicial officers and shall be defined as increasing the organic positions of members of the Legal Board of the State by one and the judicial officers by one respectively. The second article of the amendment concerns an amendment to provisions of Law 4549/2018. The proposed provision abolishes the indicative reference to cases where the Greek State has been liberalised by its guarantee liability to credit institutions. It is stipulated that the State is freed from the guarantee provided if the creditor or creditor’s fault did not contribute or retrospectively eliminate the conditions for granting the guarantee. In the third article of the amendment, the first paragraph concerns the amendment of Article 6 of L.4281/2014. Social security agencies are specifically provided for the possibility of using grants they receive in order to repay outstanding pension applications without requiring reimbursement of grants to the State budget and the rescheduling of grants. By paragraph 2, the deadlines for the completion of the financing and repayments from the respective grant programmes shall be extended until 31 March 2019. The last article of the amendment is the amendment of Article 18 of No.4354/2015. It is planned to extend until 31/12-2019 for the completion of the work of the Committee on Risk Assessment and Health Work. It shall also set a period of two months for the adoption of the relevant Ministerial Decision. The third paragraph provides that, until such time as the relevant decision is adopted, the beneficiaries shall neither change the amount nor the conditions and conditions of the allowance for unhealthy work, as applied and defined by Law No.4354/2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u242	Good. Thank you, Mrs. Papanatsiou. To give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Ahtsioglou, for the amendment of a general number 1976 and a specialist of 56.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment proposed by the Ministry of Labour has two articles: With the first article, we increase the pay paid to workers in public work programmes. You know that since 1 February 2019 the minimum wage has been increased to EUR 650 - out of EUR 586 previously - and for young people the shameful underpaid has been abolished, so from the 510 previously, they have also gone to EUR 650. We were committed to increasing workers' pay in public work programmes and with this amendment it is precisely what is being done, that is, workers in public work programmes will have a minimum wage, and that is, the new increase, that is, EUR 650, also without age discrimination. As I said before, the law that defined workers' pay in these programmes in an amount and in fact corresponded to the minimum wage amount, is now being adjusted to the increased amount. We are also making the legal correction so that the provision now says that each time the pay for social work is equal to the minimum wage. So it can be adapted positively, constantly, without needing legislative intervention. Obviously, at the moment, there are programmes that give salaries far above the minimum, such as the work programmes for the five thousand young scientists in the public sector, which pay a thousand euros and above them, depending on their qualifications. But, especially for public work programmes, this better regulation is being made for workers. It concerns forty thousand workers who are now employed in public work programmes and another fourteen thousand who will start working in the next few years in similar programmes. It is another act, another step in which we are trying to restore a part of what the workers and the unemployed in our country have lost from the austerity policies implemented in the previous period. In the second article of the amendment, with the Deputy Minister for the Environment, we are giving the opportunity to extend a socially beneficial project, during which workers were employed in anti-nuclear protection actions. It is a programme that we planned a year ago and we are implementing this time, where about five thousand workers work in anti-nuclear protection measures - we are talking about prevention, obviously, we do not mean fires and so forth - and I think it is reasonable that we are in an anti-nuclear period to extend this programme to cover the whole anti-nuclear period. This possibility is guaranteed by the second article of the amendment Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u244	Good. Thank you, Minister. So we're going to the speaker list. I invite the first speaker, Mr. Ilias Cameroon, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, although I wish only to refer to two parliamentary amendments, I cannot comment on what we have heard from our colleagues in KINAL, particularly the parliamentary representative. Ladies and gentlemen of KINAL, do you now want to criticise us on the left for the concessions, one of which we are voting on today? You're not interested in comparison. What? You forgot, when we discussed the concession of the port of Piraeus, what did we find and what did the government manage to negotiate and salvage from what you were giving? A topography, which even included avenues, with no terms and nothing? Comparing what? The protection of the workers that our government has achieved? The release of the seafront? The liberation of buildings that you gave, which are essential to the public? Or should we talk about the concession of the "Greek", which we negotiated to increase the green space, have we won a beach attributed to the inhabitants, have we reduced the building coefficient? Not to mention too much more. Ladies and gentlemen, the comparison is not of interest to you. Because through all these difficulties, which we have had to accept some things, we have succeeded and succeeded so far, in ensuring public control of what is being given and everything that we have so far granted. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to place myself on two parliamentary amendments: The first concerns the improvement that needs to be made to ensure that a departure ban is lifted, as far as possible without delay after a private register certificate, after approval by the Port Authority, the Port Authority. That is what we think is necessary to ensure that there is public control. However, since the amendment we have tabled needs a legislative improvement, I am tabling this improvement in the Minutes here. It is about the wrong reference to the article, which needs to be amended. [[At this point, the Member, Ilias Kamaeros, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I am going to go to the second amendment on arbitrary construction within port areas. For the last two years, we have been trying to regulate an issue which concerns the arbitrary constructions in port areas. This problem, of course, is mainly addressed by the islands that have ports, but also by all the regions of our country which have ports. We voted on Law 4504/2017 and made some changes after that, which was very reasonable. In order to improve the image and function in the port areas, we have given two years to those who have the arbitrary structures and who have been fined, following a study by the Port Fund and approval by the Ministry of Shipping, to destroy the existing structures and to build new ones, according to the suggestions and studies that would have been carried out. In this process we voted to suspend all the fines, impose new fines and all the other negative consequences that all these arbitrary people have had, of course, who have stressed here, not that they are justified in doing what they want - and that is why we voted for this provision to enter a class - but have been moving until then in a chaotic institutional framework. There's a void. That is not clear about the amendment we are making. He's talking about parole, but he doesn't make it clear what happens when they comply or demolish or then take off license or if they put an umbrella, with their fines. So there is an injustice here. We must - and this is what the amendment refers to - following the imposition of a fine of EUR 500 proposed by the amendment, say that no other fines are due. I would ask you, Mr President-in-Office, to follow my argument on this, because we are faced with a very great injustice. The corresponding law we passed on arbitrary matters in all areas, which did not include - because we voted separately - the arbitrary in port areas, provides in all cases where there is compliance or demolition or authorisation from full deletion of fines until fines are reduced. It provides for it in all cases. And we voted in a few memoranda, Ministers. Amidst memoranda we voted that fines are deleted, without a limit, without an area, without any commitment to an area. So, is there arbitrary in ancient times? Is it demolished by someone else? Exempted or reduced its fines. Is there arbitrary on a forest as much as it is? He's getting rid of it, paying something. It is provided for by the arbitrary law, Law No.4495, which we voted in the middle of memoranda, by Article 106(4), Article 106(1), Article 94(3) and provides for all cases, whether before 2011 or after 2011. In other words, today we are giving him the right, if he demolishes it, to delete his fine. But we come to the port areas and say no. And people are dismantling them and they have to pay for them properly. But the philosophy of this provision, which the Government passed on to us in the law of arbitrary men, who until then did not exist, was to motivate them to demolish them. Because if we leave them in this way, we know the procedure to be followed, the judicial procedure how much it is going to run, if it wants to be thrown into the public and so on. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I am also talking about the amendment. So we know how far this process is and there is still the ruthlessness, the malfunctioning of these regions. On the contrary, what we have already voted on in Law 4504 of the Ministry of Shipping sets them rules, sets them terms, even that these constructions must be bioclimatic, and of course, in the context of the urban legislation that provides for what is a roof and what is a shadow. This is a flagrant injustice, much more that, as you know, this Ministry of Shipping law sets a limit, doesn't say all the fines. Look, Mr. Ministers, he says fines of up to 30,000 euros. So it's not about large hotels, big constructions, which the arbitrary law relieves them of fines, whether they get permission or if they demolish them. It concerns very small structures, so microprofessionals, which are currently charged with fines of EUR 7 000, 8 000, 12 000 and you know very well that they are having to pay them back. However, the most important thing is that it is unfair to apply other rules on offshore areas, regardless of size, which are given them, and other rules on the inside of the port zone, which are for small fines, where we cannot make a corresponding regulation for them. After all, you know what? Let's leave them. Let us also put the port zones in the arbitrary law to be treated equally. Why do we exclude them? To make them a problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u246	Mr. Kamaterre, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u247	I'm done, Mr. President. Mr President-in-Office, it is fair and the left-wing government when it is fair must do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u248	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, did Minister Kouvelis ask for the floor for some legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u249	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u250	Please have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u251	In Article 1 of the draft law, indent G is replaced by the following: The concession contract between the Hellenic Republic and the Port Authority of Corfu Anonymi as well as the 14-02-2019 Additional Act No 1 between the Greek State and the Port Authority of Corfu S.A., the content of which is worded as follows...’ and the text is given. In Article 3 of the draft law, in the fourth subparagraph of paragraph 1 after the word ‘guarantor’, the words ‘in favour of the Port Agency’ shall be added. In Article 5 of the draft law, in paragraph 2, the word ‘three and a half’ shall be replaced by ‘three and a half’. In Article 7 of the draft law, in the first paragraph, the words ‘for the provision by the Port Authority itself’ shall be replaced by the words ‘for the provision by the Port Authority itself’, i.e. corrected and instead of ‘organisation’, ‘organisations’ shall be replaced by ‘organisations’. In Article 8 of d.d.749/1977, which is replaced by Article 8(6) of the draft law, the title ‘Article 8’ is added. In paragraph 2 of Article 104 of Law 4504/2017, replaced by Article 9 of the draft law, indents (l) and (m) are added as follows: a (1) representative of the Greek Shipowners Association and "m. a (1) representative of the Small Shipowners' Association (EEA.N.M.A.).’. In Article 10 of the draft law in paragraph 4, the words ‘and approval of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy’ shall be deleted. In Article 39 of Law No 4256/2014, which is replaced retroactively by the entry into force of Law No 4256/2014 by Article 10(5) of the draft law, ‘the law’ shall be deleted after the words ‘with Article 40(16)’. The following amendments are made to Article 12 of the draft law: In paragraph 1, the words ‘other than the islands of Crete, Evia and Lefkada’ shall be replaced by the words ‘excluding the islands of Evia and Lefkada’. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Paragraph 2 shall be deleted and paragraph 3 shall be renumbered 2. In paragraph 3 of Article 36 of the General Port Regulation, number 20 added by Article 18(1) of the draft law, the following amendments are made: in the first subparagraph after the word ‘Authorised’, the words ‘from the entry into force of this Agreement and for three years’; in the second subparagraph, the words ‘the first subparagraph’ shall be replaced by the words ‘the first subparagraph’; Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Minister. Before giving you the floor, Mr Davakis, let me make a statement to this House. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-three students and students and five educational attendants from the Municipal Schools of Gennadius Rhodes and Batsios Andros. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Davakis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, indeed bills such as those which we are discussing today, but which have to do with both port policy and shipping in our country, are crucial. As the previous rapporteur quite rightly said, New Democracy is approaching this draft law with its specific wording and also the designations it has used. I would just like to say that issues such as maritime education, which are extremely important, Mr Minister, should not be dealt with with by one, two articles in every bill brought by the Ministry of Shipping. There must be an integrated approach to the issues of maritime education both in terms of schools as well as in terms of practical exercises. For children, who want to practice the maritime profession, a huge fountain of problems is the question of finding space, a ship to do their naval exercise, but also, in general, the issues and postgraduate education, which could be a model country to exercise postgraduate education in shipping. I think you should see it with a comprehensive bill, with a holistic - I would say - approach to the issues of maritime education, so that our country can finally become that polo that could rightly be received and - I would say - magnet of maritime education throughout the world, because of the long, historical maritime tradition in the space and, more generally, the appeal that Greeks have in the naval profession. Finally, you must - at some point you will read the Minutes, Mr Kuveli - look at it with particular attention, take special care of it. Because we are talking about ports, these ten ports where there is a concession agreement, I would like to refer to another port, which is also a gateway to the country and needs the infrastructure. You need to see it and it is a good job, so I choose to mention it now, although it is not about the ten ports we are discussing, but it is important because the entire political leadership of the Ministry of Shipping is present. Of course, I'm talking about the port of Gythion. The port of Gythion was inaugurated, i.e. a pier was inaugurated in the summer of 2017 by the Peloponnese Region. However, this port is not ready to welcome the infrastructure and its overall status in a reliable manner. In what sense do I say that? I say that because other things are needed, other measures are needed, which will make this port the way it should be every port. The Municipality of Eastern Mani, ladies and gentlemen, trying to make this port operational in all respects, is in a lasting and ruthless war with bureaucracy. I would also like the Secretary-General, who was here, to listen to me in particular - I think it was you - at the opening that summer. The bureaucracy forces every municipality of the country and, in particular, the Municipality of Eastern Mani, as predicted by the colleague who was in Stepa, to hire a technical consultant to avoid the various stumbling blocks. The port of Gythios, then, to become operational - listen - needs about four - five more serious things. Firstly, there is no passenger station. In order for there to be a passenger station in the port of Gythium, there must also be, as you said before, a master plan to get the conditions for its construction. There is now a choice by pass - let's say that - of the pre-empted station in order to overcome this obstacle. Second, there's no surveillance camera system. Thirdly, it does not have the required fence specifications. Finally, there are no gates of entry and exit. Because, Minister, you said that we are inaugurating a different development school, I would give you accelerating, if you would like, at your own development school, immediately to deal with this question, since the words are good, but the left theories are good, but others say, but on the other hand, we must forget what we said the first one, because things change historically, if you like. At the moment, however, what is needed is to have these EUR 600,000 promised by the Secretary-General, the port and port policy secretary, so that the port of Gythios becomes operational. I think it's gonna happen. I want to say a good word for you. Indeed, in the Public Investment Programme, from which you have said that you will give the EUR 600,000, there is a good absorption of your secretariat, and I believe that there is a good ground, so that these EUR 600,000 will be given, because absorption is around 8.5 million, than I have been informed. So you realise that there is a very good environment, so that these four things can be tackled immediately, namely, from this EUR 8.5 million, to give this country's entrance gate, which is the port of Gythios, to become fully ready to welcome decently - rather than medieval solutions - ships. I come to the second amendment, which he mentioned earlier - and I would like him to be here, but I believe that he is listening to me - Mr Stavros Arachovitis on the issues of fraud. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, in particular those from oil-producing prefectures, the issue of tacosy is also a picture of the malfunction of the major administrative costs and the problems facing the public administration. So the Minister is now coming and is amending - and he is right to agree with this - the famous Law No.4325/15, Article 44(1) of this law, where we believe that it gives a better solution to the problem that destroys production, producers and creates huge problems in the quality of olive oil, a national product which carries on the income of hundreds of thousands of olive producers. So this amendment gives, as it says, the possibility of carrying out a pre-contractual work for 2019. So, what does it say? To be able to start spraying before the procedure is completed at the Court of Auditors. It is important, because it lasts for at least two months, two months, which are crucial to the hatching of the wood, which creates the huge problems for the oil producers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I call for your tolerance, Mr President, for one or two minutes. I believe that what the Minister says about 2019 must finally, ladies and gentlemen, be changed, there must be a lasting, lasting, simple solution, on a more stable basis. Because the most serious problem in the process of tampering is the process of the tenders of the contractors who will undertake to carry out the work. So there should be a more permanent approach, not every year of competition, with what this means for the problems faced by the services, and that the regions, which are responsible for this process, should finally have a stable and more permanent planning. Also, as far as staff are concerned, both the Heads and the others should come from a list which will result from a stable and lasting basis, as is done by the ELGA assessors. The letter from the Minister for Rural Development to the regional authorities says - and quite rightly, I would say - that the legislative framework needs to be changed. In other words, he announced a new law on tampering issues. I believe that this can be done in a concrete way, directly, so that we can finally look at our farmers in the eyes, and beyond all the other problems faced by the rural world, such as high taxation, production costs and other issues, have no inherent problems, such as adjunctivity, which in any case in many other countries have in a simple and permanent way been solved at all times. We welcome this amendment, but we draw attention to the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development, finally, to becoming something permanent, stable and simpler, because simplicity is the most serious and effective instrument in all problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much Mr Davaki. The Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Santorinios, has asked for the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Kegeroglu will take the floor. Minister, I'm putting you nine minutes from there and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. This bill, which is being discussed today in the plenary of this House, adds to a series of legislative initiatives taken by the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy during our administration, with the aim of correcting chronic diseases and, on the other hand, addressing exceptional issues that exist in our ports. We are working and legislating on the axis of necessity, national interest, justice and efficiency. We have vision and aim for shipping, for the role of the Port Authority and the development of our ports and for the support of our islands. As you know, a large part of the bill covers the legalisation for the concessions of activities in the ten regional ports, in such a way as to ensure the public interest and to multiply the benefit to the local communities. It is obvious that concessions are the way ports work around the world. 80% of the ports have this model, that of retreat, and there is also a two-tier role where the port agency also has public responsibilities. Only in Greece did we see what happened with the PPA and the promises that you had already given for the OLTH, and we had to move on to the full concession and the OLF. But that's where we did something completely different. With the serious negotiation made by the then leadership of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, with the then Minister, Thodoris Dricas, in difficult conditions - and you remember all the pressures we had at that time - we managed to ensure that the investor would make more compulsory investments. We have managed to secure the rights of port workers. We managed to exclude spaces that were not within the port zone and of course and archaeological sites that you had simply given and granted. In addition, we have achieved something that is also provided for in this convention, namely to increase the reward fee to the OTAs to 3.5%. As far as ports are concerned, because there has been a lot of discussion in the committees as to whether there is a study or no study, the studies will be done in cooperation with the Ministry of Shipping and the agencies. But you didn't answer us. You studies were done to make a full concession? You didn't answer that because you hadn't. And it's obvious you hadn't done, because you hadn't even dealt with the contract. Because, as I have said, in the Piraeus Port Authority Convention you have granted buildings and property outside the port. You weren't involved. Just like that. And since the debate on the studies and the port strategy is going to take place many times - really, will you tell us in the ESDP programming framework that is running, how many port projects were you okay to finance from the ESDP and the Cohesion Fund? One $20 million for all the ports in the country, that's all right, nothing else. So much you have dealt with the ports and their development. Well, we have a new strategic framework, which will be incorporated into our country's strategic transport framework for the new programming framework, which will include too many ports, in order to enable the NSRF to finance necessary infrastructure for our ports. Also, as you know - I do not know if you heard this - we announced today in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior, a programme, the 'Philodimos II' programme, for the financing of the municipal port funds of EUR 20 million for studies, for master plan, for projects for the development of ports, for which you have never been involved. We have also tripled the amount of the public investment programme with national money - because you hadn't predicted getting from the NSRP - to fund projects necessary for ports. Mr Davaki, and the "PHILOS II" from the Public Investment Programme are. The Municipal Port Fund will be able to make an application at the "Philodimos II", as announced today, to fund a study on what you said. And the port of Gythio for the first time, as you know, was financed by the Public Investment Program by our government and you said so. And that's because, really, we're interested in all the ports in the country. We're interested in solving their problems, not just throwing them over us like you did. Let's go to the rest. I think the sovereign is the extension of the responsibilities of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy throughout the island country, except for the two islands, Evia and Lefkada, which are connected with a bridge. Including Crete, Mr. Carras. And there will be island policies planned for the whole country. Really, what were the island policies for Crete with the previous governments? I haven't heard or seen them. I guess the Cretans haven't seen them either. And the transport equivalent for business will also be extended to Crete, since the second half of 2019. Why is this extension important? Because we have small islands that do not have defects at the moment. Mathraki and Ithaca are still waiting for this regulation to be passed so that we can proceed with the desalinations on these two islands. Let me clarify, because I had a debate with Mr Plakatakis and I thank him for that, that it is only about the island of Lefkada. Small islands in Lefkada are included in the extension of the responsibilities of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy. We also have a serious problem. In no port of the border could be ramps to carry ships and small boats. With Article 11 we solve this problem with the adoption of the General Secretariat of Port and Port Policy and the General Staff of Navy. We are also abolishing a regulation that had never in fact been implemented, the combination of the General Assembly and the "Save of the Navy", and we are reintroducing the situation in the operational situation that so far exists. There was this regulation, which was never implemented. With Article 13, we have legalised the expenditure that has been incurred over time for exceptional transport of water to our islands, to our inland islands, when the private aqueduct could not go. And now it's not going. Because we are done, ladies and gentlemen, with the desalinations on all the islands, and we are no longer spending 12 euros on cubic to transport water to the aqueduct islands. We are now spending much less and we have much more quality water on all Aegean islands. And I think this is very important, because only this year will we save EUR 4.5 million. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] You will allow me two more minutes, Mr President. However, we also have important arrangements for work. The first relates to the obligation to rebuild ships, if this has been lost. Why is it important? Because if there is no tariff, the maritime service of seafarers cannot be assured. There may be insurance with seafarers, and many times shipowners do not reconstitute the shipwreck. This arrangement makes compulsory reconstituting of a shipping log and in the event of non-reconstituting, there are administrative penalties in Article 45 of the Maritime Law Code. The second paragraph of Article 21 extends the provision of seafarers and seafarers, who are on board vessels which are fishing or on ships which take short distances, to be paid electronically in order to ensure the rights of seafarers in these categories. I imagine we will have to respond to other issues. But I think that with this bill we really give breath to the small islands, but also to the local communities of the ten regional ports, where nothing has been done and now they will be exploited in a European way and not in a colonial way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u257	I will begin with the reference to Crete, and I will say that at the first meeting of the committee, when Mr Karras raised the question of the exception of Crete, except that Mr Santorinios did not "accept" him, as he had done before with the question of transport equivalent and with the exception to which he and Mr Kourublis insisted. It is therefore a good fact that Mr Kouvelis is coming to add Crete to the islands, which will belong to island policy, since Ionians and all of the country have entered, and it is no longer just the Aegean, which, as an area of responsibility, had the Ministry of the Aegean and the Secretariat for Island Policy, when he was there. So we have a very positive development, but we also have an attempt to misinform it. Mr Santorinios, who has not been here for five consecutive times to answer our topical questions about the equivalent of transport, has been holding a meeting with the Members of SYRIZA - and he has done well, they are entitled to hold party meetings - and he has announced that, for some products, since the second half of 2019, we will have an entry into the transport equivalent. Today, he said that the second half of 2019 fully integrated Crete, namely both the transport of goods and the transport of fuel and the transport of persons. If that is the case, I think it is mature for the provision to come into the bill we are discussing today, for everyone to vote on it, because there is a climate of consensus and for this to go ahead. If that is not the case, however, the earlier statement, the term'mini equivalent', as I described it, will apply to certain products, then it will be cleared up. Because I think that all this is done by Mr Santorinios in a game of micropolitical, in cooperation with some, I believe that the responsible leadership of the Ministry of Shipping will be very clear on the subject and after Mr Kouvelis's decision to integrate Crete into the island regions, the legislation will also follow, with today's legislation, apparently amending the bill we are discussing, on the accession of Crete to the transport equivalent. I would like to say two words on the amendments. A number of amendments agree with us. The first amendment concerns the question of debt relief to private individuals, which was put forward by Mr Pitsorla. It was something that had been omitted - I think in 2013 that had been regulated - and it was unfair for these management people to suffer consequences from non-clearing. The biggest problem, of course - and I would like Mr Pitsirlas to hear it - is that these companies have not yet been wound up. The second amendment, to which we will be positive, is what we have been calling for for for a long time, namely abolishing the payment for the under twenty-five years, with a lower wage and a lower wage. Because that was the case in the private sector, not for the OAED and the public. It has now been abolished for the private sector. Welcome. But if there are retrospectives, they should be given and regulated. I see a void. There must also be the possibility of extending the scope for programmes relating to forestry protection. It is good that the Minister recommended it and amended the relevant provision. Five thousand people are in forest services for fire protection, and this will enable us - as we hope - to have a good year for forest protection. The other amendment brought by the Ministry of Labour concerning the administration of grants, to amend the provision and not to be returned, of course, we will support it, as will all the others other than the first one, to which Mr Karras will be referring in detail. But there's a thing coming up here. This money was provided to pay the outstanding pensions, to pay the pensions that have not been issued and are constantly being extended. How many pensions haven't been issued yet? Why aren't they issued? Of course, the extension should be given so that they do not return the money to the budget and that the ECA does not have it at its disposal, but at some point also this ECA has to apologise with the Minister here and tell us what he is doing for the extradition of pensions. I'm coming back to the bill. The process of withdrawal as an idea was a proposal of our own, but here there is no decentralisation of the process as it had started. There is a relocation to the TIAD of the competence and the ability to make the contest, based on the master plan of each port and to have the main reason. It's reconcentration. That is what I think is happening and you should at some point make your self-criticism for the WIDD. I have here a number of statements. "It is not a fund, it does not exploit but sell the public property. HEADD is an incredible scandal, a home of scandals." That is what Mr Tsipras said - and it matters where - speaking at the party event against the investment of the Greek. Then after the mutation of Mr. Tsipras, that is, after the first half of 2015, some had not received the message and continued tuned to the old line, Spirtzis, Kurublis and Dritsas who are present and came out one day and said: "Children, you did not understand. That's the line now. I have Mr. Tsipras' support. We're moving on. The HIAD is on the move.’ Of course, there has also been a spectacular change here. Not only was the TIAD not abolished, not only did its structures and rules of operation change, but because it had Greek administration and the foreigners demanded to take over the administration, it was incorporated into the supranational government, which has been assigned all national property for nine nine years. This is the framework within which concessions are progressing. I think that's not right. Should IT not have the first and last word again, because if it refuses or if it does not agree with the port administration, then what happens? It is decided by the General Assembly, which is the General Assembly itself. Yannis drinks, Yannis candles, Yannis everything, that is, the TIADE. That is what I think we need to change radically and the competitions to make them by port agencies. A lot has been said about the master plan. I'll say something about Heraklion's master plan. I don't know about the other prefectures. Master plan is essentially studies. So, for Heraklion's master plan, do you want me to bring you some SYRIZA announcements to see what you were saying, see how you reported people? Now he has a positive man for president there the port of Heraklion. You have, however, put in some others who cause problems and are thus made public by two SYRIZA executives of different views on the course of the port. See what you're going to do. One is a representative of the Ministry of Shipping and the other is a representative of the Ministry of Economy. By different people they have been appointed. You have to give it a solution. There can be no such situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u258	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u259	I close by again stressing Mr Kouvelis' very positive decision to integrate into island policy in Crete and we also await the decisive step towards the integration of Crete into the transport equivalent to all rights and not with limited rights. Thank you, Mr Carras, for insisting, despite the bowling that you received from Mr Santorini.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-two students and students and three teachers from the Masaron High School of Rhodes. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor very soon, for less than a minute, to clarify the point you want to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. After welcoming my compatriots, the Rhodes children, I'll tell you, Mr. Carras, that you were in the committee, and I don't think I made you some bowling, but anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u262	I have already been placed, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u263	I told you, Mr. Carras, we'd see it through to plenary. I think that's done. I say that so that what is heard is not heard. Because things are coming up and things are going to be paraphrased to get press releases, I'm gonna say I was specific to what I said. The transport equivalent for the companies in Crete - and not for products - will be in effect from the second half of 2019. For passengers, I have repeated many times that the ticket is cheaper than the CBEL. As far as fuel is concerned, you know that it is on pilot run for small and remote islands. When we move from pilot application to normal application, then we'll talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs Manolakos, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u265	You will proceed quickly to privatizations following the observations of the "quartet". That is how the ten ports come out in the hammer as part of the prerequisites for anti-grass measures required in the current assessment. It is a bill serving business groups, NATO and logistics, after you dive out the most profitable parts of these ports, strategically important even for the defence of the country, but also for the transport project. At the same time, workers' rights and employment relations are being violated in order to be cheaper in the pay of their jobs. It is therefore also a form of privatisation that serves the needs of capital. What do you present as new? That you do not grant all the activities in the ports under discussion to an entrepreneur. But the big businessman wants a department rather than a whole. He wants the "fleet" that leaves his big profit and exploitation for a long period of time, because that is how he ensures maximum profitability at a lower price of payment. When he has sucked away everything he can and the maintenance costs will be great, he will return it as a “shell”. So that is what you are presenting to us as a negotiating success. You serve the business groups, and you serve it as a philosophical measure. You're kidding, as you get used to it, and it's embarrassing. The essence is that you serve and satisfy the strategic choices of the bourgeoisie and at the same time serve the dangerous imperialist plans in the area for economic and military penetration in the Balkans, the Middle East, the Caspian Sea, etc. The control of port infrastructure is linked to the US's choice of converting Greece into a large naval camp with many new bases. At the same time, it also serves the fierce US-China competitions and the attempt to oppress the Chinese plan to exploit the country as a freight transport route. The government's policy is more closely involved in the geopolitical controversy bucket, revealing the contradictions of urban plans. The new round of privatisation of ports comes to follow the privatisation of the port of Piraeus and Thessaloniki. This policy has a drastic negative impact on popular strata. It leads to a drastic increase in transport costs, in brutal working conditions for workers, and the way in which goods and persons are moved is determined by a handful of monopolies that control where and when tourism, freight and others will be directed. Therefore, whether the concession of parts or the privatisation of ports as a whole is aimed at reducing labour power, suppressing workers' racing and working jungle conditions to maximise profitability. We are living in Piraeus with the 'COSCO' monopoly. The first steps he took were to hit the workers' conquests. How? I don't know. I don't know. It calls for heads, not for people to work and, of course, for intensification of work, an increase in working hours, a abolition of nights, holidays and holidays. Our rapporteur, comrade Katsotis, said so. And you know, these conditions have created in Piraeus, at the port and more accidents at work, which are not recorded. Why? Because he's showing it's out of business after he gets it out on the road. Of course it has the anti-government legislation of PASOK, New Democracy, SYRIZA and their memoranda. ‘COSCO’ has dominated the port. It unfolds an ambitious investment project involving several sectors of the economy. Domestic capital, shipowners, Piraeus merchants, tourism and the zone adapt their objectives and objectives, with the urban state, the region, municipalities, chambers to intervene to address the new conflicts, as well as the new demands of the sections of the capital. The government is also trying to manage the major contradictions of its policy, since, on the one hand, it seeks to become an effective signifier of NATO and US projects in the Balkans, the Eastern Mediterranean and turns the country into a basic portal for the transfer of Chinese goods to the European Union. However, the more economic and political competition is exacerbated between the US, China and the European Union, the more complex the issues that the government is trying to solve, serving the interests of the Greek ruling class. In this context, the whole investment of the 'COSCO' master plan for port by the Port Planning and Development Committee was not approved. Now whatever excuses the Minister says are to cover it up. Of course, all of this capitalist development is not about popular strata, but about imperialist competition for a greater market share. Otherwise, excuses for selling the port. All of you, New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA have given it a piece of 'COSCO'. Also, new privileges and tax exemptions are being promoted through the bill, since business groups - port managers - will not pay port fees, nor HISPIA and other taxes. That's the way it is, the chapter is served. Anti-popular measures are only for popular strata. Shipowners owe more than EUR 100 million to NAT, but ship auctions are not done. The target now is only the first residence. And that's not all. By decision of the Minister of Finance and within the framework of the Memorandum of Understandings, SYRIZA Government has transferred more than 10,000 properties of the public, including schools, sports spaces, children's playgrounds, squares, recreational areas, and so on, that is to say, no wonder in the future we will also pay rent for public schools and sports spaces. We are voting against and call on the people not to pinch and believe that there is a fair development that can benefit at the same time the victims of capitalist exploitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr Morfidis, MP Kavala of SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u267	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, every calm and well-meaning observer can easily see that the present government has moved in a suffocating context. This applies to all political issues, especially economic policy. The accumulated problems and the Memorandumary commitments constituted an essentially rigid shell in which the scope for developing a different economic policy was low. The full burden of the effort was inevitably released from the maximum number of memoranda with the least possible damage to our country and our people. Achieving this basic objective is a fact that is undeniable. This is a national success of huge proportions. Now we are in a position, with more opportunity, to move on to some political initiatives that will prevent us from returning to the deadlocks of the past and, on the other hand, provide examples of writing our political intentions for the future. A characteristic example of these intentions is the bill we are discussing today. It is a bill with a national, developmental and charitable character. The first point, therefore, is that, with this bill, we do not go ahead with a panic divestment of national infrastructures. Unfair privatisations and the transfer of majority packages to retail investors have been a failed model of previous governments. These actions inherited us fait accomplis with little room for decay. On the contrary, with today's bill we are promoting a model of concessions to private investors. This preserves the twofold nature of port agencies in the ten regional ports engaged in business and public authority. In addition, the national public interest is guaranteed in a number of regulations. First of all, the concessions will be made by the GOI, but after consultation with the Ministry of Shipping and the administration of the port organisation concerned. So, Mr. Kegeroglu, he won't do whatever he wants. Then each contract will be ratified by law by the national parliament. Finally, the Greek State will be represented by the Ministers for Finance and Maritime Affairs and Island Policy as guarantor for the fulfilment of the conditions of the concession. Reimbursements are also laid down both for the port agencies and for the public to be attributed to the municipalities. But it also has a clear development target in this bill. The model it promotes is a European practice tested over time. By exploiting this successful experience of the port industry, it is possible to select specialised investors. In short, a framework is being created to exclude speculative investments. On the other hand, targeted business or combined activities will be accorded the most advantageous advantage to each port. It is clear that our main aim is to give a new development perspective to these ten regional ports. Each of these regions has its own advantages, and in no case do we enter into competition, such as the port of Kavala - the port of Alexandroupolis. There is scope for cooperation and co-development for all regions. Particularly for the port of Kavala they open up very important prospects in a number of areas such as tourism, trade and energy. Of course, its link with the railway and the railway line planned, we think, will take off these possibilities and opportunities for development. The facilities of the new port now reach their completion and Kavala is invited to play its important role. Let us consider the dynamism that is being shaped now, as the country leaves behind - step by step - the Memorandum era and forms a new strategic cooperation in the Balkans and in Europe. Finally, it is clear that the bill has a charity dimension. This is clear if we take into account that every effort has been made to ensure that workers' rights are guaranteed in this new entrepreneurship. Of course, the most important is jobs. The bill promotes the sustainable operation of ports and ensures the sustainability of port agencies. However, the prospect is not just that jobs should not be lost. The aim is to liberate a new growth potential which will create new upgraded employment opportunities. As far as the amendments are concerned, I should like to say the following. I would like to turn to the tacotic amendment, a case that concerns us every year with too many problems. We hope that, with the final solution given by the Ministry of Rural Development, we will never have to deal with this issue either with us and the next Members and local players. I mean, get in a row. Finally, I would like to point out that with our mature political decision to reject the privatisation model for the ten regional ports and the adoption of the concession model for spaces and services, we are achieving something very important, we are adopting a flexible way of exploiting national infrastructures, we are not creating fait accompli. You know very well how harmful the despicable and unsatisfactory practice of privatisation has been in the past. He created irreversible situations and deadlocks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Morfidis. Mr Athanasios, Member of the Lesvos of the New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing another multi-annual draft from the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy. We are still waiting for when we will discuss a bill by this ministry with the beginning, middle and end, and not an unrelated stitch between the provisions of all time and theme. The main theme of the bill is the retreat of the ports. I would like to make it clear from the principle that the New Democracy is unreservedly in favour of the amendments and the utilization of public property in partnership with the private sector. That's not to create impressions. After all, we were not the ones who ran to the bars when the use of the port of Piraeus was legislated, which, thanks to our intervention at that time, is at the top of Europe, when you were the ones who were mining for a sale. But we cannot agree without considering exactly what you are legislating here. It is clear that you are legislating to retreat the ports without a plan, without a study, without any concern for the consequences. The fact that there is no plan arises from the fees to be charged to the concessionaires and, indeed, imposed on the juror, whereas the criterion to be laid down is the survival of the port organisation rather than the market conditions and the specific circumstances and prospects of each port or even a viability study. In this way, it is certain that many ports will either not find investors, or the price the public will receive will be significantly reduced. The biggest issue with your arrangements, however, is that if the basic functions of the ports are backed up for a long time, what will happen with the existing organisations will be one of the following: Either they become concessionaires' subcontractors, or they will be made on a major unobjectional basis. In the first case, this will be a disastrous result, if, Minister, significant investments have not been ensured before the withdrawal. In the second case, we will reach the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, the Port Regulatory Authority and the port authorities at the same time have competence over a regional port with overlapping responsibilities, and this implies the confusion of responsibilities. So no plan for the next day of port agencies. I ask you directly: What will you say tomorrow to the employees of agencies who will either end up in the private sector, or do not have an object and feel insecure about their work future? What did you predict? The answer is absolutely nothing, because you know that soon you will not be a government. Others will have to deal with the problems that you are creating. Now - in the time that I have left - I want to refer to some of the other provisions of the bill. First of all, it is the question of the responsibilities of the Port Authority. Even if we accept that the port must in fact have competence over the seaside and the beach, which is a great deal of discussion, it is not possible to legislate in this way, that is, by means of a provision in an irrelevant bill, namely the transfer of competence. You do not provide any information which reassurs us that the port tomorrow will have the procedures, human resources and infrastructure to meet these responsibilities, as our rapporteur, Mr Plakatakis, has detailedly mentioned in his report. Because the essential thing is that the cavalry and the beaches are policed and not that we have a theoretical debate about who is best placed to police. On the question of the pan-Hellenic examinations for the introduction to port schools, we were telling you some time ago that you would not be able to launch it because you were not making any progress. You have told us that you are well-democratic about the Port House as if it were some kind of man of anti-democratic element. You are coming today and you are confessing that you have failed, without resolving the question of the mandate of the Port Authority. In fact, you're conducting competitions outside the SAPA. And it's not the only provision in the bill that's a confession of failure. It is also the provision of Article 10 for the chartering of vessels. Ladies and gentlemen, if one thing we have learned after four years of SYRIZA, it is not even in the maritime sector that there is a coherent political thought. Everything is done without study, without plan, without strategy. We got tired of discussing multi-projects with fragmentary arrangements and bills that come one to correct the mistakes the previous one had. Of course, we are also voting against this bill, except for certain specific articles, such as Article 21, in which there are beneficial provisions for the family members of the Port Authority and the Greek Coast Guard, the late Mr. Papadopoulos, who died in an active service. I would now like, Minister, to refer to two amendments. I imagine the co-legislative ministers are watching because they're gone. I am referring first of all to the amendment with a general number of 1975 and a specific number of 55 tabled today by the Minister for Digital Policy. The first paragraph of the article of the amendment concerns recruitment outside acts of a Ministerial Council. Why, is that so? I was given the opportunity to study it in the time it was submitted, because it was submitted a little while ago. Why, then, are hired outside acts of a Ministerial Council, as laid down in the basic provision? There is also no reference to the report by the General Accounting Office of the State regarding the amount of recruitment expenses. No programming and no control, i.e. the control of the General Accounting Office of the State. In the second article of the amendment, the first paragraph unfolds and raises questions, because it gives the possibility... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me a second more. It therefore enables the Minister of Digital Policy to monitor all payments of the NRP 2007-2013 as a supervisory body of the information society. So, are you trying to find irregularities during our governance period? What is the real reason for this in such a depth of retrospective control? The second paragraph of the second Article shall revoke the financial correction decisions referred to therein without mentioning in the explanatory statement the reason. What is the reason why they're being revoked? Article 4 of the amendment attempts to attract posted officials to offices abroad. So, Minister, if you can tell your colleague to bring her back, to see her again in an article, to pass through the committee, to do the checks that we have to discuss and then. Finally, I refer to the amendment with a general number of 1973 and a specialist 53, which was also tabled today. I am thinking here of the matter, Mr Kouvelis, who is a law-abiding legal person, and will understand what I want to say - that for persons who have served as directors, presidents and members of the boards of directors of ECOMETH's subsidiaries, etc., the provisions of Law 2238/1994 do not apply, which stipulate - see this - personal and mutual liability of natural persons with legal persons or with personal detention or other administrative measures for the non-payment by these companies of any kind of debt, taxes, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u270	Mr. Athanasios, you've been talking for nine minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u271	You're right, I know. But the amendments have now come.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u272	Your parliamentary representative will also speak. Everyone can't speak for ten minutes. You understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u273	I'll be done. I just want to track it down, record it in the Minutes. It comes here to add that the same is true of cheque claims. So he doesn't say "cheques" to take someone's mind. What's he saying? It says 'infringements of Article 79 of Law 5960'. This law, ladies and gentlemen, is the cheques law. But how can this be done here? Because the checks are inappropriate, as you know, Minister, they have no cause. How is it possible to know whether these checks come from the actions of the EMEA or from the companies it replaces or from the subsidiaries of the EMEA, which are related to the activity and, where appropriate, are not personal? So it's inappropriate. The second thing that makes me think of this. We have a bill from the Ministry of Development on corporate transformations tomorrow. And I ask myself: why does the Minister not bring it to the bill tomorrow so that we can deal with it? I happen to be rapporteur in this bill and the Minister supports it. What is the reason why he came today and does not come tomorrow which is the committee responsible, where we could do control as necessary? That is why, Minister, I believe, both of these amendments are at your exclusive discretion, especially the second one, and in view of the fact that we are debating the bill tomorrow, you should not accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u274	Mr Katsis, SYRIZA Thesprotia MP, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to put a very important bill, in my opinion, of particular interest in the future of local societies, which also concerns the country's development perspective as a whole. More specifically, the model for implementing the activities and infrastructures with public and private synergies is described in detail in the 10 regional ports of the country, including Alexandroupolis, Igoumenitsa, Patras, Corfu, Kavala, Volos, etc. This model is to conclude concessions for the withdrawal of specific and combined operational units or port operations and services of port facilities by strategic investors. But what was the previous configured situation? The previous structured situation was, of course, underpinning the full privatization of port agencies, through the sale of the one-stop shop and the conclusion of a contract with a private contractor, who would take over the total administration of the port. This is why all ten ports were included in the TEAPD, which had as a declared objective the full privatisation of its statute. It was, that is, this model that was chosen for the ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki. What are we doing today for the ten regional ports with the bill under discussion? First, they were promised to sell to private individuals, which would have already been made if the political change had not been changed in 2015. So we're clear about something. In this bill ports are not sold, remain under public control, and their shares are not granted. Port authorities retain their character as legal persons of a legal nature having a business of a legal nature, but retain all the powers which involve the exercise of public authority. That is why we have fought hard in recent years to overthrow this privatisation model promoted by the previous government and to be consistent with our political positions. Do we, however, have fully developed the possibilities of ports to carry out diverse economic activities? Although critical development projects have been carried out in recent years with funding, such as the Port of Igoumenitsa, which I shall refer to below, public investment has a ceiling. That is why we are enabling port activities, infrastructure or infrastructure to be transferred by means of an international tender to strategic investors, through a lease, for some years. The competitions are expected to be carried out by the GOI in cooperation with the port authorities concerned and the Ministry of Shipping. Particularly important is that the selection of the activities under concession results in agreement between the port organisation, the Ministry of Shipping and the TEAD. We are therefore aiming at attracting investors with specialised experience to create new jobs, as well as at the targeted development of the retraining port activities and the operational units of the regional ports in the near future. Examples that have shown intense interest are the development of cruises, marinas, LNG ship refuelling, logistics etc. International practice, what does it say? At the level of the European Union for port policy, it has shown that the model of public-private partnerships in the port industry is the most efficient development, while at the same time ensuring the public interest, as they are avoided. If the latter were to happen, we would have ports removed from the host city, without social and rewarding actions for citizens. We want growth and investment on the one hand, but on the other, ports looking at the city, respecting workers and leaving them added value to society. But how is the public and social interest guaranteed in line with the strengthening of their prospects? Here I would like to make some clear clarifications so that there are no misunderstandings and questions among the citizens and local communities that are watching us. The SYRIZA Government’s policy that is implemented with difficulties in rendering land areas of ports not used for port activities in the municipalities concerned and the citizens, continues to apply normally and continues to apply. The concessions relate only to the port activities carried out within port agencies. Territorial zones other than ports or port activities shall not be granted, privatised, but attributed to the municipalities concerned, which shall also be responsible for their conservation and exploitation. Just clear and clear. Secondly, another way in which our policy on the public interest is implemented is that a consistent demand for local societies - from the time Mr Dritsas was Minister, we have been discussing it and asked for it by local communities and municipalities - is the rewarding end. So there is a payroll from 2% to 3.5%. It is the percentage of the public consideration of the total consolidated annual revenues of the port authorities concerned, but which will be paid to the municipality concerned, not to the public. The municipalities have always asked for it. They are now taking it, because there must be a rewarding benefit for the mob activities caused by the ports on their territory in order to use funds for development and social actions by the municipalities. Thirdly, provision is made for the imposition on the sub-accessor of the compensation fee in favour of the port organisation concerned, which may not exceed 5% of the annual gross revenue of the concession holder. This will be identified by a joint Ministerial Decision based on a viability study of a financial advisor, hired by the administration of the port organisation. This parameter is extremely important for the economic benefit of port agencies, and even in the event of a small economic scale, it will ensure that the body will also guarantee its viability. Fourthly, there is the establishment of an extension of the mandate of the Port Authority to the cavalry and the beach so that responsibilities with the police are no longer confused and more effective control and guarding are carried out. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be allowed to make a reference to the port of Igoumenitsa, a strategic port of national importance, the main western portal of Greece, which is part of the trans-European transport networks, with an increased movement due to the completion of the two corridors of Ionia and Egnatia and with enormous growth potential for the future. The port of Igoumenitsa has nowadays completed the works of the second phase of the cruise, ensured the financing of the third phase of the commercial port. They are projects that are already under way and are going very well. However, for a long time he has not played the role he could play and has not fully exploited all its potential. He had a land zone without a management body - listen, listen! - since 2005, while the worst of all is that the previous government has already discussed and launched its full sale and privatisation of course with the land area integrated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, in a minute I shall be done. Today we are facing a series of challenges which, from this point of view, I would like to highlight and ask the Government and the institutions to help us move forward. The efforts of the Municipality of Igoumenitsa, the Igoumenitsa Port Authority and the Ministry of Shipping and the Ministry of Finance must be accelerated through the Public Building Service for the performance of the land area. The resettlement of agialou and the beach, the redefinition of its natural limits, so that the concession of the land area and the coastal front to the Municipality of Igoumenitsa and the citizens must be completed. And because he has also sent a request to the Ministry and to the Members Thesprotia, the Municipality of Igoumenitsa, and calls for an extraordinary municipal council, from this Step I am given the opportunity to stress that this process is progressing properly and we need everyone's assistance to finish. Finally, a work of breath and a project of decades for the city is the construction of a marina in Igoumenitsa. The first step was taken, as the license file at the Ministry of Tourism has already been filed. This project will provide huge development and tourist impetus in conjunction with the existing infrastructure for the cruise, such as Plataria and Syvotas, as well as the ones of Corfu and Paxos and Lefkada. These are complementary infrastructures and contribute to the development of the tourism product as a whole. And that's all we have to stress. With this draft law, which allows for combined activities, the next decisive step can be taken to find the investment scheme that will contribute to the construction of the marina, fully upgrade the Ionian-Adriatic macro-region to which the Epirus refers, making the Continent strong development and with a crucial, central role for the wider region. We need that very much in this region, which is one of the poorest in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u276	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u277	I shall conclude, Mr President. As we understand, ladies and gentlemen, the vote on this bill opens for the region of Thesprotia and the whole of the continent a huge potential for growth at a high rate of job creation, which will be the most important, if not our main objectives for the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr. Katsy. Mr Boukokoros, Member of the Commission of the European Communities for Magnesia of the New Democracy, will be followed by Mr Armalene. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. The big question, ladies and gentlemen, which arises from the debate on today's bill, is whether there is a national port policy by the current government. Our answer is that clearly not. The governments of the New Democracy have had a certain policy and we are proud of it. And privatisation at the port of Piraeus was that political decision that brought a few years after the port of Piraeus between the world's largest ones and brings growth and tens of thousands of jobs. Minister, you will allow me to remind you of Mao's saying, because it is not a question of port ownership. So Mao said, "I don't care about cats, black cats, white cats, as long as they catch mice." And it seems that with this bill here you do not achieve the desired result and it is not clear and what is the aim of this legislative initiative. It is a bill full of bureaucracy, with the involvement of all the co-legislators, contradictions about compensation to port organisations, no improvement in the investment climate, without any strategic planning, without studies. That is why we conclude that there is no national port strategy. Of course, the current government may not want to follow the model of Piraeus. It's her right! However, what potential for growth is given by the ten major regional ports, including Volos's one? And you know, Minister - because you have sensitivities with Volos, in addition to half we see you as Voliotis, if I am well informed your place of birth - the port of Volos cannot be compared with the other ten regional ports. It is the port that has been equipped with a rail link for twenty years now, what we are now trying to do in Alexandroupolis, Triasios and so on. Was there a partnership between the Ministry of Commerce and the Ministry of Infrastructure to exploit this comparative advantage of Volos port? For four years no investment has been made at all. And I don't have good news from Volos. There's the former Minister of Commercial Shipping here, too. Minister, our town is affected by unemployment. The unemployment rate recorded is 30%. Ask the local OAED. It's not 19% or 20%. And comes in 2016 Mr. Kourublis at Volos and announces the possibility of light repairs to the port outside the tank, which is not polluting and we are all applauding it. It passes in October 2017 in the bill of the Ministry of Commercial Shipping the provision and two years we wait for this decision to be given the opportunity to the port of Volos. And there are a thousand completely skilled workers who are waiting for work! What interests prevent Mr Kourublis and what interests are preventing you, Mr Kuveli, from adopting this ministerial decision, from breathing the port of Volos? You're not taking advantage of the infrastructure, they're tearing down. The cranes are a new era. There has been no investment in the port of Volos for four years! And you're telling me, through a bill blurred and unclear, that we're going to attract investors to Volos port? It is not a random port, it is not in the same order as all the other ports that we are discussing today's bill. Ignore it and let it go desolate. It is, however, the economic lung not only of Volos, but of the whole of Thessaly, Minister. And I have to make this criticism right now, because I see infrastructure devastated. And that's not all, Minister. The news from Volo is not good at all. Lives the third wave of deindustrialisation for days SYRIZA. Another major industry announced rotating work just the day before yesterday. Date of entry into force (if different from the above) There are thousands of unemployed. There has been no single employment programme for this region. So what are you doing? How will growth come? Just by voting bills and announcements? It is an area that has all the comparative advantages. And your colleague, Minister for National Defence, announces neither more nor less that the marine brigade will move. This is another economic blow to the city of Volos of 20,000,000 a year. What policies, then, do you apply, as a whole as a government, to a large urban centre in Greece, to a large port in the centre of Greece? You are the new Minister of Shipping, but at least the Minister's decision to repair the port of Volos, by you, Mr. Kouveli, we expected you to sign it with the "good morning" at the Ministry. Whatever the interests, whatever the pressures, a organized state and a structured state must give opportunities to all infrastructures, all ports and users will decide, as if you created the environment tomorrow and investors will decide. So what's going on with all this? Do you know that in the land of Magnesia there has not been a single investment? You're four and a half years government now. And we hear only as a joke in our region that unemployment is at 19% and 20%. Address your OAED services at Volos. Unemployment is more than 30% in the urban complex. So what are you doing? Laws on laws? Or laws that will bring growth? Finally, I come to the conclusion, Minister, that SYRIZA's policies - it has been seen by a majority of the Greek people - are seriously harming the Greek economy. But SYRIZA's policies harm even more seriously my region, Volos, the port and the production process and the local economy and the local society. And of course, tomorrow, we have elections tomorrow, and then you will be asked to apologise for both the port and the fact that your policies are in danger of turning a privileged area into an economic desert. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. He didn't even get to ring the bell next year. The floor is now given by Mr. Symblene, Member of the Cyclades, and immediately thereafter Mr. Kourublis, as well as by the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Republic, Mr. Kefaloyannis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill seeks to adopt the institutional framework of concessions for the 10 main ports of the country other than Piraeus and Thessaloniki. Before we enter the bill, however, we have to agree that our country alone from its geographical position in the south-eastern Mediterranean has a heavy geostrategic and geopolitical role in the modern world. The use of our country's ports is therefore of particular importance, mainly by making our ports as transit and extrovert centres more important to meet the growing needs of coastal and cruise shipping. Today's bill fully highlights the major differences in the current government's policy with New Democracy's policy until 2014, but also with the one it proclaims and works today. The difference of views and positions between the full privatisation and the transfer of all the shares in the ports to the private sector, which is engaged in the New Democracy, and the perception of the concessions of specific activities for individual investments, is apparent, while maintaining public control. And that is the essence of controversy with the Civic Opposition and those who, of course, follow it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not selling indiscriminately. We make use of our ports through individual concessions by keeping public control, while at the same time guaranteeing workers' employment rights and pay, and at the same time guaranteeing an equal and beneficial mutual relationship between ports and towns' municipal authorities and municipalities. After all, this dimension and this difference between Government and Reconciliation Officer has clearly emerged between the initial contracts of the Port Authority of Piraeus and the Port Authority of Thessaloniki and those achieved by the Government with their renegotiation, achieving significant benefits both in exempting public spaces from their concession to individuals and ensuring the rights of workers. Today, with the bill that we are voting on in a little while, as I said, the concessions of specific activities are laid down to make use of by signing contracts between the three parties, the TIADED, the port agencies and the investors, without the transfer of shares to individuals. And that is precisely the European port policy that provides activities by maintaining port control either in public or in local government. This is, of course, the case for the very large majority of European ports, at around 80% to 85%. The question, therefore, is whether you are the so-called enthusiasts of European policy, European idea, 'Measure Europe' or 'Measure Europeans', as has been described, what exactly you advocate, which policy you are taking and following. And, of course, the bill also ensures, through the concessions, the right to administer and exploit other port activities and checks on the port's terrestrial areas also remain in the ports. Furthermore, by imposing a compensatory fee above the financial consideration paid by the Sub-accessor, the viability of the port operators is ensured. I would also like to mention two critical points which are laid down: First, the return to the Greek public fee of 3.5% on the total annual revenue of the port authorities, part of which is attributed to the municipalities concerned as a compensation for the nuisance of the traffic burden, increased noise, discharged pollutants from port users. Secondly, staff and internal regulations of the agencies are maintained and this ensures the working status and rights of workers. However, I would like to conclude with two further points mentioned in the other provisions: Firstly, on the basis of the provision on the transport of drinking water to the islands by the ships of the Navy, I would like to pay tribute to the efforts of the last few years of the political leadership of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, which reaches their end, so that the state no longer obliges itself to charter via private seafarers who carry water on the islands at increased cost. Money is being saved, some million, and yet another party that was revealed - uncovered under the responsibility of the political leadership - that there was in the past years and in this area one of those who had taken over the transfer to our islands. And I would like to mention a second and conclude, on the basis of the provisions on public maritime education. We in Syros have a peculiarity, and I said it to the committee. He is a specialist course teacher, English, who for six years has been the only permanent professor of the School of Merchant Navy, who performs a debt director, i.e. replaces the principal. There is no possibility for this man for six years to be entitled to what all the other directors are entitled to financially, those who are managers in the Commercial Navy Schools in the rest of the country. I say the self-evident thing that should be done in our country in a very easy way. If there are no teachers of the other specialties provided for, or alternates or assistants, etc., this sole teacher, until a teacher of the corresponding qualifications is found to be able to enjoy these ‘private privileges’ which the other Directors of the Commercial Navy Schools have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr. Armalene. Mr. Kourublis, MP for the 2nd Athens of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, we are discussing in Parliament an extremely interesting draft law on port policy, the port industry, as is said. And a question arises when one listens with caution to colleagues, particularly Officer Responsibility, who ruled a few years ago in the way they approach these issues. In politics, Mr President, a great politician has said in recent years - he needs braveness, he needs self-criticism and he needs to have the ability to recognise the mistakes. So I ask: was there a port industry policy in the country? What can I say to Parliament, Mr President? That there was the committee responsible for the crisis and approval of the port studies and that the Greek Masters' Union was not represented, that is, the people who put and take the ships out of the ports? Tell what state did the ports come in? I'm ashamed to say it as a Greek politician. May I refer to what situation the government received the world-famous port, which was received eight years ago, in 2010? And you come here criticizing in such a way as to be virgin, as if you were from virginity? You don't know anything? Don't you know what happened to the ports in the country? Don't you know what studies you've done? The port was paid 20,000,000 to Agios Stratis for receiving it six years ago. Ask what happens when it's a bad time if it can get into the port ship easily. And you come here and say, "Trains, pineapples" that the people say? There was a whole plan, to see what is going on with all the ports of the country, a complete abandonment because you wanted to give it to the private. That was your logic. I heard my colleague, Mr. Bukowo. Well, aren't we ashamed? Is the Port Authority in the same condition as the one we received from him? Tell the Greek people here that it was received and in what a bankrupt situation the port and the organization was and how it is today. Isn't that what you're saying? You don't know them? And you talked to us about interests, too? Mr. Bukkaro, when you're addressing me for interests, be very careful. If you want to talk about this issue you said, we can talk. But you'll be careful. Do you know why a ministerial decision was made eight years ago that limited this activity to Perama? Because there were the known problems with the ship repair zone. Tell the Greek people everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u284	Mr President, I would like to ask for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u285	So this government comes in and we move on to privatise two ports in the context of the country's commitments - that's where the country became! - and we have worked out a plan for both ports where we have protected the interests of the country because we have forced investors to invest in compulsory investments, particularly not vaguely. We have safeguarded the interests of workers and it has not opened up a nose, because that is precisely why we have at the heart of our policy on human beings and workers and have given them this guarantee. How many years have Piraeus been fighting for workers, ladies and gentlemen, heavy and unhealthy? How many years did they work as wing workers and did this government come and ensure that these people's right? How many concessions were made to these two ports in the local society, places in particular, but also in other ports, in Alexandroupolis, in Kavala, in Igoumenitsa, in Patras, in Elefsina, in Rafina, in Lavrio? Why didn't you do all this? We have come and negotiated with the HICP, a tough negotiation - I tell you - because they wanted to proceed with full privatisation. This WIDD was recommended by you who are coming now and yelling like you know nothing about the crime! We proceeded to a new model, despite the suffocating pressures of institutions and threats. And yet we imposed what we judged. And we didn't just stay there. For the first time - I say it again - we have ensured that local communities are heard of this - and we have ensured an end for the municipalities and Piraeus and the surrounding municipalities and Thessaloniki, but also for the concessions that will now take place in these ten ports. And we're not there. We have also ensured a similar end for the agencies, because that is precisely why we want to allow this wealth to gain from the local society as well. We have another kind of perception on these issues of development. We do not care about growth, because you believe in neoliberal growth to accumulate wealth among the few and to spread poverty and insecurity to many. That's your ideology! That is why the European project with Eurosceptics is currently being threatened with this kind of political and ideological approach. Mr President, I have heard some things very good about maritime education. And here you will allow me to express myself with anger because I hear things that impress me. How many years, Mr. Pakisotakis, did the school in Crete, which is the second school in a student population in Greece, have it taken 1 euro? When you talk, you tell the Greek people. I challenge you to say how many years the school of Crete had to get 1 euro from the state for its equipment. It is currently launching a EUR 2.5 million programme! So is Syros. Same in Thessaloniki. Have you ever been to your life as Ministers at these schools? You never went! I challenge one of my predecessors to tell you how many times he went to these schools to see how much you believed! You left them in their luck, take them to the private sector. I should also like to accept that, but neither did you dare have the policy of doing so. You didn't dare go to the private initiative. You are clinging to the private initiative and you have not dared to go on with it either. That is your logic, you have abolished all empty organic positions. How did we receive the school at Aspropyrgos? No dogs, let me have that expression, Mr President, and you had children in there! But they weren't your kids. They were the children of the poor people. That's what you did!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u286	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u287	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have established positions, equipped the schools and modernized the timeline with the Evgenides Foundation. We connected the schools to the local universities. We connected the School of the Egyptian Treasury and the University of Piraeus to the Palmer School in Sweden. Same as the School of Education in New York. Where did you see these? You didn't rule Greece? Wasn't that all? Why didn't you do it? And you come now, like nothing happened, and you say nice things? Minister, I close and would like to agree with the amendments. I don't have time to talk. There's a private maritime education school in Chios. The school doesn't have any labs right now. You need to find a way - we are not dogmatic - these children, until this school has the appropriate equipment to train. They are also children of the Greek people and they are not other gods, they must be able to train themselves in the facilities of the School of Naval Education in Chios.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u288	Minister, it's ten minutes. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u289	And when one of the fellow Members of the New Democracy visits the area, go ask the mayor of Oinoussa what we have done there, but also know the Greek people when talking about interests, the interests were where the coastline spent the Greek people's money, 100,000 000 for the arid lines and the islands had no transports, or they paid the water 10 euros the cubic, the monopolies you served! And you come here to talk about interests! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Bukkoro, you were not mentioned by name. He said 'the previous speaker'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u293	It was mentioned by name. Look at the Minutes. I'd like to explain the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u294	However, I will give you the floor for a minute to explain the staff. You have the floor for a minute, please, soon and strict.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u295	He said the honourable former Minister of Shipping, when I talk about interests, and I turn to him to be careful. Incidentally, but clearly, he called me a slander. But since I am responsible, Mr President, for what I am saying and not for what is being understood, I would like you to give me the two minutes to explain precisely.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u296	Mr Colleague, please briefly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u297	First of all, I am pleased to speak once again in the presence of three maritime ministers and a Deputy. In other words, they are four Ministers present. Mr Kourublis, I referred to organized ministries' interests, because what else could anyone think of a ministerial decision on the port of Volos, which you announced in 2016, did you pass it in a bill in 2017, we welcomed it, we applauded you, but two years have passed and the ministerial decision has not yet been adopted? You left the Ministry of Shipping, your successor, Mr. Kouvelis, has come and the Minister's decision is still pending. What do you want to say, these are the rate of government SYRIZA? What do you want me to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u298	Well, if you had any...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u299	Just give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u300	If you had any questions, why didn't you ever come to the Ministry to express it and explain to you what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Curublis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u302	Listen, he tells me, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u303	Before you fell in the sliding, you had to come to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u304	Yeah, but that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u305	Mr. Curublis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u306	He tells me, Minister, your predecessor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u307	You never came!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Curublis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u309	I'll answer you. You will receive answers, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u311	Minister of Shipping, your predecessor is lying to me because I didn't come to the Ministry of Shipping...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u312	You never came...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u313	So I invoke...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Curublis, if you please, I'll give you the floor for a minute later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u315	Members of Parliament do not beg to the ministries, Mr Kurubli. What you're saying is extra-institutional.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u316	That's slander!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u317	Ladies and gentlemen, you are not listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u318	The MPs control the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u319	You're a slander!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u320	Come on, sir...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u321	Mr. Kouveli, although I've been interrupted and spent all the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u322	Please very much, Mr. Buquarre.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u323	Although all my time has been wasted, I invoke, Mr. Kuveli, and your testimony of how many times I have bothered you on this particular subject. I also invoke Mr Santorinio, not to say Mr. Kurublis that we were not interested in this matter. The fact that a ministerial decision has not been issued for the last two years gives us serious suspicions. That is what I am saying and stressing, and the Voliots also hear the skilled workers of Volos - who, as I said in my speech, ignores the sea - listens to us, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u324	Mr. Buquarre, it's clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u325	The rest is not understandable from Mr Kurubli's point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u326	Mr Kefaloniann, Parliamentary Representative from New Democracy and MP Rethymnon, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u327	Thank you very much, Mr President. Yesterday in the debate we had in this House, I referred once again, unfortunately, to the decay images, which are presented both inside and outside Parliament. I referred to specific cases which, when my dear colleague from SYRIZA tried to counteract, actually did not succeed, because he repeated some common phrases and never entered into the essence of the problem, namely the fact that all these images, which we have been monitoring in recent weeks, unfortunately within and outside Parliament, have resulted in a picture of sepsis and falling outwards as well. You saw that all the largest news media reports are mentioned in our country, saying that former ministers and top ministers, such as the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of National Defence, are actually intertwining and extorting each other. The same instruments - which are certainly not controlled by New Democracy - were also mentioned to a minister directly threatening the central banker of the country. Unfortunately, all this has the effect of throwing water into the mill of those who oppose parliamentaryism, throwing water into the mill of those who actually want to see these images in order to be able to address their audience and say 'this is their democracy'. Once again, ladies and gentlemen of the government, I am hitting the alarm because such images in no way help parliamentary parties who believe in democracy and parliamentaryism. Under no circumstances do you make the mistake that such polarization and that kind of style and spirit of someone may help you electorally. I will submit to the Minutes a survey that came out yesterday, which says that unfortunately Greece is the second country in populism in Europe. In fact, I read that according to this year's totalitarian populism index of this report, Greece is unfortunately in second place after Hungary and indeed with Italy are the three countries where support for authoritarian populist parties is stronger. This report continues by saying that these parties have an authoritarian view of democracy, which threatens many of the values that are at the heart of European democracy. This, ladies and gentlemen, I am tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It was also heard yesterday during the debate by SYRIZA about a right-wing part in the New Democracy, and even then, in response to Mr Xydakis, I unfortunately mentioned to him about the history of SYRIZA - not the whole of the Left - that there were political incidents very recently, unfortunately, where he proved that he was involved with the extreme right. I referred to the fact that along with the Golden Dawn voted in 2014 not to have a President of the Republic and they provoked elections. He was together in the referendum 'no'. Along with Golden Dawn, unfortunately, at the invitation of Mr. Kammenos, at the time of the Minister of Defence of the Government, a Committee on Foreign and Defence was convened on the island of Ro and there were only Members of the Golden Dawn, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. Also yesterday - I will put this in the Minutes - the government's late government partner, Mr Kammens, made an unprecedented statement that with a lipstick of armoured Skopje it is a 20-minute business. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Truly, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the Couple, this man, to whom you yourself, in your vote, have cast a vote of confidence for four years, do you think he is not far-right? Do you welcome such statements? I would really like someone from SYRIZA to tell me if they welcome such statements. Did he hurt you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u328	Mr Samaras said that it was 'a border with Serbia'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Dritsa, I'll see you in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u330	Come on, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u331	I'll tell you in your speech. But, Mr. Dritsa, you yourself gave this man more than three times a vote of confidence. Along with him, you've colluded four years. And this man comes in and says yesterday that in twenty minutes with an armored lips we'll be in Skopje. I expect you, when you receive the floor, to tell me whether you welcome or condemn this statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Samaras said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u333	You colluded with him, not Mr. Samaras. You colluded with him, Mr. Dritsa, and I'm expecting a concrete condemnation of this particular statement. I'm going through the bill, ladies and gentlemen. The aim of the draft law which we are debating today, in my opinion, is a very clear one. It is obviously not the development of port infrastructure, nor, of course, the provision of high services at competitive prices, and in no case is the creation of a flexible and efficient administrative function, and of course it is not the attraction of private investment and know-how. The aim is not to allow SYRIZA's current and candidate parliamentarians, together with their local organisations to tour electorally in the regions and to say to their voters that 'Look, we were blocking the sale at ports'. Of course, this is the whole concern of the government majority, which would not be taken care of if we had no obligation to present to lenders a specific plan for the future of port infrastructure, after four years of obstruction. And in this way they believe in SYRIZA that, with one forum, they may have two birds, that is, on the one hand, to perform our revolutionary duty towards the neoliberal legacy of privatisation and, at the same time, to satisfy the lenders, so that by presenting them with a model for the exploitation of port infrastructure, we can be consistent with our obligations. Of course, you know very well that this model has little or no chance of working, and that of course does not concern anyone, neither the government nor it seems that it does not seem either the lenders. Because that is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. This model can be convenient in some cases, especially where there are multiple and injurious activities, but none. Our country currently has 12 port agencies in the form of S.A., about eight hundred ports of all forms run by some seventy management bodies, mainly the port funds. You know very well, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that at the moment there are three main problems with regard to the Greek ports. Firstly, a restriction on equipment and expenditure on infrastructure, secondly, unsatisfactory links with transport networks and thirdly, administrative and operational deficiencies. And I ask, is there really someone in this room today who believes that the Public Investment Programme can deal with the needs of more than eight hundred ports? Have you not realised that even today the port funds, if they do not join together and if they are not transformed into specific legal forms, will they never become viable economic units, nor will they attract investment interest? Well, I'm sure some of them have figured it out, but apparently they haven't been heard. If I have read the Minutes well, the Minister in the committee said that this model, which is presented today, was chosen on purely political criteria and not on market terms. Of course, when you subdue financial management to micro-political purposes, then unfortunately you only create problems. We have many points to start with. First, the fact that apart from the Ministry and the Port Regulatory Authority, the concessionaire will also be supervised by the port management organisation. This actually adds another level of bureaucracy, another level of administration. It is also your concern, where in order that there is no reaction from the party organisations, you are actually plundering your own legislation, when you impose a 5% fee, which you are baptizing as a 'compensatory', on the recipient's receipts. In fact, in order for the world to understand this, the investors concerned will not pay a rent at the TIAD for the activity it is granted, but in fact they will pay another rent to the port agency, which remains public. In addition, you shall consider that the level of the compensation fee may be adjusted by 5%, depending on whether or not the viability of the port body concerned is at stake. And I would like to ask: Mr Ministers, if any administration of a public port decides, for example, to recruit more staff or if it decides to invest in an injurious activity or is still spending excessively, so that the financial viability of the port is at stake, then this inability, these rumours, I shall say, mismanagement of the public administration, should the private sector do so? Will the business concessionaire take over for a company that is, in fact, public? So, do you honestly think there will be a private person who will pay for the mismanagement of the public administration? The answer, of course, is that you don't know it very well too. The last thing that concerns you is because you know very well that after the elections, you will not be a government. So, you actually want to give the hot potato to the next. I shall be coming to the amendments very soon. Mr President, about forty minutes ago you tabled two amendments. One is forty - eight pages and the other is eighteen pages. They are, in fact, amendments from your Ministry. Do you think that's a good way to confiscate? Do we have time in forty minutes to read sixty pages of legislative work, actually to discuss and decide on this? You knew very well that today we have legislative work. You could well have submitted them to the committee or even earlier. Today, half an hour before the vote, you are tabling two amendments with a total of sixty-four pages and we are also invited to put them in place. As a new democracy, we will not be placed, because we simply do not have time to read them. Once again, Mr President, the Conference of Presidents is also in place. These procedures will have to be stopped. I now come to the other amendments, which we have not even had time to study. I am going to turn to the amendment with a general number of 1972 and a specialist of 52 from the Ministry of Rural Development concerning the implementation of the tactical programme. It is really outrageous, ladies and gentlemen, that, for the fourth consecutive year, this government publicly admits that it is unable to complete the implementation of the turbulence programme in a timely and transparent manner. This year, in fact, you have not even made an effort to table the amendment with which you are accepting your inability. You need to know very well that both the rural world of our country and everyone watching knows very well that the particular government in terms of tactics has found itself far below its circumstances and capabilities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I now come to the amendment by the Ministry of Digital Policy and to a new party organised by its leadership in terms of recruitment and normalisation. I will stand on two points, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, in the new hiring bar in the information society by means of a work lease contract, which is excluded from the instrument of the Ministerial Council for the suspension of appointments and recruitment in the public sector. Secondly, I will dwell on the amendment extending the right of secondment to press offices to journalists seconded by any body, namely municipalities, regions, other ministries, from Parliament and the wider public sector, to the General Secretariat of Information, allegedly invoking the principle of equality. I would like to ask the Minister, Mr Papa, if he was present, what really is the reason why journalists should be placed in foreign press offices, when there is the specialised branch of consultants and secretaries of communication, who are graduates of the National School of Public Administration, speaks each three to four foreign languages and holds postgraduate degrees, and they also have experience in public diplomacy? If the Minister, Mr. Pappas, really, wanted to strengthen the staff capacity of the foreign press offices, let us know why in 2015 he closed ten very important press offices abroad, such as the one in Sydney, Ottawa and The Hague? It was in The Hague four months before the presidency of the European Union took office in the Netherlands. If Mr Pappas really wanted to strengthen the staffing potential of the external press offices, then why has he left off the remaining twenty-six offices? Finally, if he really wanted to strengthen all these offices, then why didn't he - take care, ladies and gentlemen - not a single placement in the foreign press in 2018, even in breach of Mr.4339/15 he had created? Of course, and I close with that, the answer lies in today's amendment. In order for it to be able to suit critical services to the country abroad, heirs who will enjoy a diplomatic status, with what this implies, which, of course, is not the case in any other developed country of the European Union. That is why we are voting against this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u334	Thank you, Mr. Kefaliannis. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-eight students and students and three teachers from the High School of New Seleucia Thesprotia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Minister, you have asked for the floor for the amendments. Immediately afterwards, you have a line, Mr. Kavada. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u335	I accept the ministerial amendments, but I feel that I need to refer to what Mr Athanasios said at the moment, on the amendment concerning EOMEMES. In both the explanatory statement and the text of the law, things are said different from what my colleague has pointed out, and I am referring here. There is a specific reasoning: “In so far as the checks have been issued in the name and on behalf of the EMAMEA's subsidiaries. and they have not been repaid by legal persons', with the additional presumption - I will not repeat the argument that it has been heard - that the liquidation, as it should have been, of the EOMMETH SA, has not been carried out and, consequently, these people there are caught in an pending procedure. As far as the amendments relating to Members' initiatives are concerned, Mr Kamaterre, I do not opt for the verb 'I do not accept' your amendment on the payment of a fine for arbitrary construction within land port. On the substance, you are right, but, as you know very well, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Shipping and the Ministry of Finance and we will seek the most appropriate regulation in order to address the issue you have said. I would also like to add that what I am saying to you, please, do not think it is a reference to the bells and it will be done immediately. With regard to your other amendment, which relates to the control of ships and the authorisation of departure from the competent authority, which is the general number 1971 and special 51, I accept it. I am also accepting Mr Pavlides' amendment, under a general number 1979 and a special number 59, which relates to the costs of transporting water and for 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two of our amendments which are in your hands. Once resetting certain arrangements for the Port Regulatory Authority, known as RAL. The aim is to harmonize the existing principles with the other independent authorities. There is another one, which is extremely important in terms of ship inspection. Prior law provided the inspection of ships to classification societies. It's two counts. They are two Greek classification societies and another four or five, if I remember well, those certified by the international organisation 'AJAX'. However, these classification societies have not accepted too many ships. Already in the port, they are speaking - I am referring to the phrase and they are called 'orphan' - of fifty ships, which have not been included in the control and inspection of classification societies. So, very simply and specifically, what do we say with this amendment? That of course the audit, the inspection by the classification societies is exactly as foreseen by the recent law of 2017. At the same time, however, it is up to local authorities to also have the power to inspect. This is very right and I must tell you that this parallel inspection function, classification societies on the one hand and local inspection scales of the Ministry of Shipping on the other hand, is completely compatible with European law. I would say to you, in fact, that I would need time to develop it further, that what concerns us - in addition to this regulation that is being made with this amendment - is that perhaps the country may need a national agency - I randomly choose its name - to which only the possibility of inspection should be given, and that would have a very specific effect. It is, however, an institutional regulation, which requires too much time, more specific work, and that is why this amendment comes in, which I have just mentioned. In the European countries, because I have also referred to European law, to Union law, of course the classification societies work, but at the same time state control - and I choose to call it that - for the inspection of ships. And that's very important. Also, Mr President, if I have two minutes, I would like to point out this: it has been heard that the employees of port agencies will, at some point, be under the claim of investors. This isn't about it. I said this in my speech that these are the staff of the organization and, of course, in relation to what I am saying, there is the other possibility. If an investor, some of the services he wishes to entrust to contractors or subcontractors, chooses - because he can - the capacity of the port agencies to do this sub-contracting, then in terms that the agency and the workers itself will judge, take over or not take over in line with this contraction. I am not going to mention, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened with regard to education. I'll only say one word. There is a more comprehensive issue, despite the excellent progress made in the case of the Chambers of Commerce. And the recruitment of permanent staff to a large extent has been - not to the extent that we would like to see, because you understand what is going on there, the budget is coming in - and we have secured equipment and yet another Academy of Commercial Navy in Kalymnos we have founded and redefined and improved the curriculum. If you ask me, have we come to the end of the effort? Obviously not. And indeed, there is a more comprehensive regulation, but this is where we need a comprehensive plan and a sufficient opportunity to look at the issues of maritime education as a whole. I repeat, despite the many important things that have been done, not only in my term of office - the young, after all, six months - but also by the predecessor ministers, Mr Dritsa and Mr Kurublis, and indeed many and important things have been done...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u336	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u337	I'll be done in a minute. ...the subject of the exams was raised. What tests? Since September 2019, you know very well that in order to introduce someone into the Port House he must have graduated from schools, which will be part of the pan-Hellenic system, i.e. with pan-Hellenic examinations, as is the case for the Security Body, as is the case for other productive schools. Everything is done with objectivity, with transparency, with merit, so that better and better content of studies will be and will be more effective in carrying out their duties, when they are now entering the Port Authority as graduates of these schools. But there is one problem, ladies and gentlemen. The first one, if you want, will be in 2022 and some others may be in 2023. The question is: Given the sufficient needs we have for the port, what are we going to do? That is why we also anticipate the opening of a tender. In this competition, let me repeat it, there will be the presence, not in a committee, but in more, of the AACC. Because the word "decorative" was heard, the role of the AACC, the tasks, the responsibilities and powers of the AACC were defined by law and I am sure you know its responsibilities. So these tests will be carried out, according to the examinations carried out by Mr Dritsa, for example, again with the presence of the AACC. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been an adversarial reason for defending the entire Greek examinations for admission to schools, as I have told you. Responsibility will be served, transparency and clarity, because no one can be pleased and pleased when he goes back to the lists of the Ministry of Shipping to see that in many cases the choices, appointments, of course, with a degree in High School, had intense characteristics and odor of nepotism.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u338	Minister, you have a second chance of developing all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u339	Thank you very much, Mr President, if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u341	Minister, what would you like? I think the Minister's amendment has been developed. I don't know if you want to fill in something on your side. Please, you have the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. The proposed amendment contains two regulations, which are important for naval issues. The first one clarifies the true meaning of Article 5(1) of Law 3276 on collective bargaining. What explains is that it may apply retroactively from the time the collective agreement has been concluded, as a time of its entry into force, irrespective of the time that has been concluded or ratified by the Minister. What does that actually mean? That both parties may agree to have retroactive effect of the contract and to be able to do so, this necessary clarification should be made in the law. This applies essentially to the contract, which, as you know, was signed between the CEN and the CEN during the recent strike and was for the first time, after many years, an increase of 2% of the wages of seafarers. The second amendment concerns the safeguarding of the rights of seafarers in relation to the payment of holiday and Christmas allowances and provides that in the event that this is not regulated in the collective maritime labour agreement, it is compulsory to pay these allowances for Christmas on 21 December and for Easter on Wednesday. I think it is two important regulations that protect these people's rights. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u344	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u345	What would you like? Did you forget something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u346	I forgot something. I would like to mention this more about the value of the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u347	What will happen, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u348	For a few seconds, the Minister wants to fill in something. Can I tell him not to? Please, Mr. Symphony.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u349	I don't get used to saying too much. It's necessary. I missed it when I was talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u350	Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u351	I said that I accepted Mr Kamateros's amendment to the general number of 1971 and accepted it, but with the correction to the title as stated by Mr Kamateros and tabled in the Minutes, that is, 'Article 6(4) of Article 109 of Law 4504/2017, which replaced Chapter 6'. It's exactly the way you've testified it in the Minutes of the House, Mr. Kamaterre. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kavvadas has the floor, a member of the Nea Democrat Republic, for seven minutes. Immediately after that is Mr. Synthrakis and Mr. Katsaniotis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, shipping over time is one of the main pillars of the Greek economy. Today we are discussing a bill with which SYRIZA, after four years of governance, returns to realism and reality. After four years it finds out how international trade and international competition operates. After four years the government begins to understand the benefits that can result from the exploitation of our ports and, more generally, from the development of shipping. Of course, in this bill, as on many other issues, when he was in the opposition he had organised protests and reacted strongly to all the initiatives of the Governments of New Democracy. But beyond that, the government is still coming today with a great deal of delay to legislate wrong policies again, without escaping its ideological strife. At the time you recognize the value of private investment in the country and especially in the area of the use of ports, while until first you talked to us about sales and so on, refuse again to see reality as a whole. You are talking about retreat, about licensed activities at ports, and you are even more confused with responsibilities. You cannot yet understand that ports are something uniform. They can't be separated and they can't be separated. Do not get involved with the large ports of the European north and their models of operation. Lavrio, Rafina and Alexandroupolis have nothing to do with Antwerp, Rotterdam and Hamburg. It's a simple thing, since you know it, too. Because the state cannot invest in our ports, a private investor needs. The State will keep the statutory supervision provided for by law for national, security and so on. The private sector will invest to increase economic activity, create new jobs and increase the State's revenues from taxation and fees. It's so simple, but still your ideological stress doesn't allow you to legislate properly. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I have the impression that the government is doing a special and unexplainable job against Lefkada and its citizens, because I really cannot explain how the government is acting on our island at all levels. Since the beginning of its governance, which happens to coincide with my own parliamentary term, we have faced in many others the slight exception of the Lefkada hospital since the designation "fair, problematic and island regions", which would deprive doctors on the island, the cancellation of the work of the submarine link by decision of the Minister of Infrastructure, which costs the development of the island. the closure of the two sections of the Lefkada TEI with the decision of the Minister of Education, the exception of the Manganese, Kalomos and Kassos from the free internet program for two years with the decision of the Minister of Digital Policy, the exception for eight months of the Congregation from the new ferry line Corfu - Zakynthos from your predecessor, Mr. Minister, Mr. Kourublis, which also cost the tourist development of Lefkada. With this bill we are faced with the exclusion of Lefkada from the responsibilities of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy. I am referring to Rule 12. This article extends the powers of the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy to all the islands of Greece. Unfortunately, Minister, not everything, because for an incomprehensible reason, which is not justified in the explanatory statement, Lefkada is excluded. Can you explain to us, Minister, and especially to the Lefkadians, why you deprive Lefkada of all the tools that this General Secretariat can offer? Is there any justification for this exemption? Is it known that you have dramatically limited the Public Investment Programme and the planned funds for our islands, but why are you depriving Lefkada of what is relevant to it and leaving it out of this regulation? You leave it, in other words, apart from the beneficial measures and regulations that all the other islands will have. Do not tell us that Lefkada is connected with the floating bridge, because in Lefkada, like in all the islands, we have the same problems regarding the issues of the sea and the ports. Why does the state not take responsibility? Is Lefkada in another state or is it not in the Istanbul, or is Lefkada not an island? Minister, even now you can correct this injustice and include Lefkada in the predictions and responsibilities of the General Secretariat. Ladies and gentlemen, once again you have brought a bill to the vote with various provisions which have nothing to do with each other, without cohesion and without a single form. It seems rather arranging outstanding issues and settlements rather than trying to solve real problems. It is clear that we cannot go along with that logic, which is why we are voting against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, Mr. Kavada. Mr. Synthrakis, MP of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government very zealously speeds up the privatisation procedures of the ten ports in the country by the method of withdrawal, on the basis of the European Union strategy for the liberalisation of port services, but also of US planning and pursuits. The government lies when it says it does not privatize, but retreats the ports of the country. It's really laughing. The same thing, you know, PASOK did when he said that the management stays in the public sector or OTE was a share, and in practice it was turning the territory of the full privatisation of public enterprises and organisations. The Government hides that the choice of retreating activities at this stage - rather than the entire port - is more beneficial to the large capital. It significantly reduces investment costs, since the big businessman does not buy, but rents fixed capital. The form of concession or concession does not change the path of liberalisation of transport currently being implemented by SYRIZA as a consequence of the respective privatisations in New Democracy and PASOK, but is in some cases a necessary condition. The draft law provides for significant abattoirs to the concessionaires with an exemption from municipal fees, not even electricity charges. It is the people who will be called upon to pay for the broken in the name of fair growth. This capitalist development does not meet with the people's needs and priorities. Project hierarchies by the European Union, governments, local, regional administrations have one single criterion, the cost-benefit criterion for large capital. Some of the examples are: first, in the case of the sale of airports to 'FRAPORT', achievement of SYRIZA, full privatisation. I remember when SYRIZA and Mr Stathakis went out on the tiles in Chania before January 2015, accusing New Democracy of his neoliberal sale of "Daskologyannis". After being reconstructed, after the new 50m euros cost wing was built with the Greek people's money, SYRIZA delivered them for ninety years, as well as all the rest. Secondly, today, Mr. Spirtzis, as a new Mavroyalouros by making revenues for the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas and jobs for the locals, signed a celebrity contract in Crete for the construction of the new airport in Kastelli, and of course the entire economic and political establishment of Crete. Everyone - you see - must take a little of the glory of an airport on order of the tour operator and construction groups, which will ensure huge profits from the study, construction and management of it in the foreign and local monopoly consortium. Those who will pay for it are the taxpayers, the free labor workers who will work as modern slaves with the broken-up working relationships secured by the present, like the previous governments. What's that? Is that a philosophical privatisation? Thirdly, the upgrading of the northern road axis - which was now remembered, after hundreds of innocent people were killed - costed EUR 2 billion, with public concessions to construction companies with triple funding: private, state and lending by the Investment Bank. This will certainly be the case for the working people to pay for it by imposing tolls. What's that, philosophical privatization? For all of this, all of them agree: SYRIZA, the New Democracy, the Change Movement, even the Golden Dawn, the mayors of Crete, the District Administrator, tourist agents, great hoteliers. And while they agree, they are being framed for the equivalent of transport, when all of them in this House a while ago rejected the JRC's amendment to reintroduce the reduced rate of VAT for all the islands. For the people of Crete too, the decision to integrate the companies of Crete into the transport equivalent for the transport of products is a pity. This is not a development measure, since the large capital of Crete is strengthened by hot money, and it concerns the major exporters in Crete, the major companies who export their products or carry passengers with an annual turnover - as you, Minister - EUR 40 million. The employees of Crete have no benefit from this measure, since any discount that they obtain from these companies does not commit to deliver it to the passengers and small farmers, nor does it mean that consumers in Crete will see the prices of the products on the shelves falling. The JRC has proposed measures which you do not agree, such as a drastic reduction in passenger fares and vehicle fares, to reintroduce the reduced rate of VAT for all islands, a direct state subsidy for farmers to cover the cost of transport by sea without - I repeat - the intermediaries. The draft law, ladies and gentlemen, provides for between the ten ports and Heraklion. First of all, the Port Authority of Heraklion, as a public limited company, has already given private individuals the cleaning, parking, the storage of the port. Secondly, it agrees with the withdrawal of the use of port facilities which objectively leads to the complete privatisation of the port. It couldn't have been different. It's SYRIZA Command. It is clear that in Heraklion there is a withdrawal of the cruise and, secondly, if there is an interest in the merchandise sector, in which the port agency has already supplied new machinery of very high value. The investments in the cruise sector are highly profitable, both for tour operators, local tourist agents who will organise tours on the island and also for the concessionaire who will set fire fares per passenger - visitor. Eating comes in the appetite! The withdrawal of the cruise does not prevent other sectors from being granted in the future by implementing what the bill says about combined activities. The port body's authorised master plan aims at the overall reform of the port of Heraklion. It comes gradually to address the needs of investors, its full privatization, both in the construction of its modernisation with the method of partnership between the public and private sectors, and in its operation of exploitation, to reduce the responsibilities of the port body which will be limited to administrative services. And then you will tell me: 'These twenty-eight remaining workers from the seventy-eight - who were once - what will happen'? The master plan includes various alternative investment plans for the port, including the land area belonging to the port organisation, such as buildings of old warehouses of the former Heraklion Theatre Station. Focus centres, recreational centres, sports and commerce will be developed. New construction of port is planned for parking small boats, with floating projections, modernisation of passenger station and pier 1 and pier 2. It also provides for the use of the Venetian port of Heraklion, with the Castle of "Koules" and Neoria. These are provided for the master plan on behalf of business groups, with the main objective from the Linopram region to Agios Nikolaos, a distance of 80 km, to convert this area to Cretan Riviera for high-valves, under conditions of gallery and poverty for the workers. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that one of the victims of this policy of privatisation is the workers themselves who will suffer even greater changes in their working relations. They have already undergone serious changes with their inclusion in the single wage bill. The 2018 collective agreement has not yet been signed, with the responsibility of the government, because it is, he says, contrary to the single wage. The internal rules of operation and the rights which they had acquired were abolished. The staff has been dramatically reduced. Work's been tightened up. They've been removed from social camping facilities, children's stations. So that is the essence of trade policy. The JRC, Mr President, opposes this privatisation policy of whatever kind, considering that ports should belong to the State and that their operation should serve the people rather than the profits of business groups and ensure full working wage rights for workers. Workers must not rest. They must teach the lesson in front of four elections, but above all they must organize their struggle, reconstruct the movement and give a resounding lesson to the parties that have so far sent them to the tartars, but claiming everything that they have been removed from the previous years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u356	Thank you, too, Mr. Synthraki. Mr Kastaniotis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u357	Thank you, Mr President. Today we see another bill of government which really has no cohesion, no continuity, and it knows that the government will not apply it, because it will leave. We are talking about a piece of legislation which is essentially based on the lack of a port policy. We have heard the Minister say that since there are master plan in all ports, we also have a port policy. But the master plan is all about the operation of the ports. It is not the strategy, it is not port policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u358	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u359	I heard you on television well, Minister. We have ten ports of national interest, profitable. They're entering a special regime. Their profitability, of course, has declined over the last four years. Each organisation will carry out a sustainability study since without any study it has been selected by the Ministry and the model of withdrawal has been decided. Why did not sustainability studies take place in each of these ten ports before the model was decided? Mr. Santorinios said they didn't happen to Piraeus and Thessaloniki. Of course they did. The viability study at the port of Piraeus and Thessaloniki was the one that defined the size of the investments the private should have made. He actually set the price level and was the basis for the competitions. Of course they did. What are you doing? Put the cart in front of the horse. And let me ask: In the port of Patras, for example, the sustainability study you do after the law, if it gets out that retreat is not the best model, what are you going to do? You're going to say that Patras comes out of the ten ports because the sustainability study that took place after the bill says we shouldn't go to this model? What do we say? We'll have to see each port what the model is that suits it. Concession, retreat, what the sustainability study actually gets. And who's going to do the sustainability study, Minister? Each organism alone, not the S.H.I.E.L.D. So you realize the problems that will arise from what you have prepared. Let me ask another question: is the investor obligated to invest, or when he takes ready-to-eat operational units and infrastructures, will he not have to make particular investments? I'll go back to the port of Patras. In the northern part there is the old passenger port which has nine meters deep, has a ready cruise reception station, almost four hundred fifty places for mega yachts. So, this part, if the retreat study makes it clear that it is good and has to be given, what will the private person do? What will the investor do? Is he gonna put money? Is he going to invest? No, he'll get a fillet. If we put it in the process of combined activities and take, for example, Corfu cruise and Katakolo cruise, we give the best piece, a fillet on the side of the Ionian Sea, to a private person who won't even need to put anything. You understand we're talking about a concession of fillets without any prior study. And to be honest with each other - why is it important that we talk about it all - the 'COSCO' model, is a bad model? The piraeus model is a bad model? Mr. Tsipras said more when he went to China. He didn't say it was a bad model. We believe that the 'COSCO' concession model is an investment model that brings well-paid jobs, which increases the prestige of the Piraeus port and is currently making it a pioneer in Europe, and yes, it is a model that is of great interest. What do you think? You don't like this model? Or, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, do you think that sin is a sin to say "concession", do you consider it a pre-parate sin, while is retreat? You're trying to hide behind your ideas. People understand, people understand. What it takes is investment, what the country needs is these ten ports, which four years have left them in their luck, to get ahead. What is needed is for Mr Kourublis not to raise the tone here, but to answer us for his responsibilities when he was Minister of Shipping. The port of Patras has neither one euro investment nor one euro. All the indicators go from evil to worse on your day and you have the courage to tell us that you found the ports in a terrible state? Because that's a nerve. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that I heard Mr. Dricas say to Mr. Kefaliannis when he was talking about Mr. Kammenos, that Mr. Samaras is right-wing. That's what you said. Didn't you say that, Mr. Dritsa?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u360	He challenged me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u361	Did he challenge you? Mr. Kouvelis, who colluded with Mr. Samaras, is here to tell us whether he thinks that Mr. Samaras is right-wing and to answer Mr. Dricas his predecessor. To stop this specula, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u362	I'll answer you later, Mr. Catsaniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u363	And he's obligated Mr. Kouvelis, who was Mr. Samaras' co-pilot to tell us. And let him answer you and not me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u364	Mr Pinheiro has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to mention briefly the previous crises in the Greek Police. I am very sorry that the Minister for Civil Protection is not here, but I hope he will hear it. Officers' crises are the greatest crisis in this House, because it is decided, beyond the Head of the KYSEA, and the rest of the leadership of all grades at central, regional and prefecture level that will cover the services. In fact, we had the day before yesterday non-military crises, then without vacant posts, we had selective crises for the generals and, above all, clearing crises at the ranks of the Brigadier General and the police director. Do we have the luxury, ladies and gentlemen, excellent officers with rich curriculum vitae and a well-deserved route to demobilize'suckers'? Crisis with party criteria cannot be accepted either by the opposition, by the citizens of the country, or by the body of the Greek Police because it is an acquis. Settlements with party criteria for the police have passed. But you, unfortunately, are living with the past and intervening even provocatively at local level. And now on our point. Minister, New Democracy was talking about strategic port use, and you were talking as SYRIZA about selling. You are now seeing the path of realism, but you do not dare read it. You can't get rid of the prison bonds. You're locked up. Select the concessions model. For the rest of the port, aren't you interested in exploiting it? All you care about is scrubbing budget holes? Who will now be responsible for the port? How will workers and others be assured of them? Unfortunately, an integrated assessment and sustainability study does not exist. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Yannis Pakisotakis, highlighted the main issues of the law. I am referring to the port of Alexandroupolis, which is of geostrategic interest. Most of the land area of the port, according to the approved master plan, belongs to proprietary areas. For many years, the expropriation process and, of course, the compensation of the holders has expired. I made this clear through parliamentary scrutiny by tabling a petition from 16-11-18 of Parliament with the relevant documents - supporting the thirty-four holders I said. In your reply you transferred the matter to the GOI to find a solution. Minister, behold, the field of glory is brilliant. Set it up by law now that you can. You have the legal weapons. There is no need for thirty - four families to wait for forced expropriations. The integration of these areas into the planning of the Port Authority of Alexandroupolis took place in 2008, according to a decision of the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. This area belongs to the general urban plan of the Municipality of Alexandroupolis. By its decision, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs described the area as ‘land area of the port’. In other words, construction permits for about two acres are forbidden. It is also described in the relevant master plan, as I said, as a sector V, which is prerequisite for the full exploitation of the port and includes a free zone, free area, the Port Authority building Alexandroupolis with local port office, sorting facilities, possible future development of a freight station and centre, a building of a new customs office of the prefecture, a place of future buildings. I know the construction of a state-of-the-art OLA administration, with the port office together, inside the port. Today the main port office is inside the city's building web. It is an insult to the largest port in the Thracian Sea and the northeastern Aegean that the port authority is located in the settlement area. Through parliamentary control and meetings with your predecessors, I highlighted the need to build a modern building in the port. It is an obligation that the concessionaire can undertake and this must be provided for, Minister, by means of legislation. I would also like to point out that in Articles 24 and 25 you regulate the coverage of empty organic posts of the Hellenic Coast Guard officers until they are introduced into the relevant productive schools with the system of pan-Hellenic examinations, as you have just mentioned. I would like to point out: How rough was the fact that there was a law on pan-Hellenic examinations at all levels, when this four-year gap had not been foreseen for officers for both - three years for officers! It remains a mystery, however, where these schools will be founded. We suggested the establishment of the Port Academy in Alexandroupolis. You are starting from September the operation of the productive schools. Where are they going to work? Do you have room? Do you have facilities? We have proposed and proposed you by the mayor of Alexandroupolis temporary facilities for the operation of schools and we have granted a hundred forty-eight acres in the best area of Alexandroupolis. We have the best level of education. Why don't you make a big national decision and set up the schools there, which we need very much? You, Minister, are sensitive and I know you very well. It distinguishes you and courtesy. I am sure you will take the right and nationally beneficial decision. Also, under Rule 26, which is entitled to "expand the competences of the Port House to the saints and the beaches", you extend the territorial competence of the House. The local and material competence, Mr Minister, you know that as a good lawman you are, must not change hand-in-hand, but according to studies and, indeed, when major problems arise. Please submit to the Minutes of Parliament if you have a document in Katahakis in agreement with that direction. Not the Minister's signature, because I know how much the ministers read the bills that are co-responsible. I would like to ask if you have a clear document in Katechakis that you are in agreement with this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u366	Mr. Purchass, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u367	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. The judges, prosecutors, courts generally know the territorial competence of the two Security Councils. There's never been any problems. The Greek police has been successfully engaged in this area so far. Whenever problems have arisen, they have been solved by local commanders. You have assigned more responsibilities and duties to the Port House. Does the leadership of this House want it? Is it the executives who want it? Do you have a documentary? Please submit them to the Minutes of the House. You know that in this category it is sixteen thousand miles [16 km] of sanctuary and beaches of the country. Does it have human resources to police these officers, this House, this great responsibility, do you assign them? I am sure that when they ask you for powers, you will tell them the famous and historian "of the guilty". [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u368	Mr. Theodore Dritsas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, before I enter into the matter of the bill, I owe my colleague and former Minister of Shipping, Mr Varvitsiotis, an answer - because I do not use twitter and facebook and I waited exactly this day before Parliament. He will, moreover, succeed me in the Step and will be able to respond - for an unfortunate statement here in Parliament about two weeks ago - to the debate on another bill. He said the unbelievable, and he insisted, that "2015 the Aegean is full of bodies" and that "we had a thousand five hundred drowning refugees and immigrants". In 2015 eight hundred forty - eight thousand six hundred twelve people entered our country. A hundred and thirty - nine thousand four hundred, seventy - three rescues were made by the strains of the Port Body. One hundred and forty-four thousand, actually, together with the wider area, were the survivors. The losses in total were two hundred and seventy - two, of which eighty - four in search - rescue cases. None of these hundred and eighty-four incidents were present in the presence of the officers of the Port Body at the point. They called before the ships of the Port Corps could reach and rescue them. The Port House in 2015, in 2016, in 2017, did not lose a single man when he was present and could be in the search-saving process! This information I submit for the Minutes as a honour in the memory of Mr. Papadopoulos, the arrangement for the children of whom is included in today's bill. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Theodoros Dritsas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The former Minister for Maritime Affairs, honouring the Port Corps, ought to succeed me in a little while at the Step to make up for and restore things. We are moving on to port policy. I also told the committee - and the Minister said today, Mr Kouvelis - that we tried to take over the Ministry in 2015 to put - and we are still on track - the first steps and the first foundations of a genuine national strategy for the port industry. There wasn't! I've set an example. When the troika imposed a strategy study on the port industry and I sought it - because it was referring to a question by a colleague in the context of parliamentary control, it was also a law - there was nowhere in the Ministry. Nobody knew her. She had not participated in any service of the Ministry in her pension. But because it came up and was also obliged by law to update it, I did everything in order to look for it. Do you know where I found her? To a collaborative former Minister - not Mr Varvitsiotis - of the New Democracy in her home, in flash drives, which sent us. This is the only study, which had been ordered at a private office in the history of the Ministry of Shipping. You can draw your conclusions. Privatisation is a well-known selection of the New Democracy. But she, too, as you have not studied this either. Because privatization differs. There are many kinds of privatisations. One can be against privatisation, in favour of privatisation, but there is a huge range of issues one has to approach to see a privatization. But it does not only bring investment. Investments may also have the public PPA. What we are saying now about 'COSCO' in Piraeus is compulsory investments because they were planned - and that can be confirmed by Mr Varvitsiotis - and financed by the public PPA. Therefore, the concession agreement for the majority package of shares could not go any further back to the investments than where PPA as a public limited company, listed on the stock exchange but with a majority package, had organised and planned. The main problem with privatisation is how many customers you can bring to a port. And as international networks are now organised, it is a major question of how you can really achieve it under public management. There's too much to be judged. But I was really ashamed when I visited Israel with the Prime Minister and was informed by the Minister of Transport - because most countries do not have the Minister of Shipping - about how they organised the five major ports of Israel in connection with both land and air transport in a programme studied. And they kept the two state-owned. The two are under concession and have privatized the one. And that was a comprehensive plan for this country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] When was the slightest project in Greece? The Ministry now and the Secretariat-General of Port and Port Policy since then, a step - step has gone ahead and has already reached a level that is good enough to be able to organise all this planning. And don't forget that we're not talking in vain about privatization or non-privateisation. We are talking about the conditions of bankruptcy, with the HICP and debt service. So we are going far away from a real public planning of port industry and its development. Because we're at the top of the debt service.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Drizza, be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u371	And from this point of view, privatisation - for anyone who defends them - is not right either in Piraeus or Thessaloniki. And that whichever neoliberal has his mind, can say it and confess it and understand it very well. Because you can see very well at the moment in Piraeus - which, yes, is growing, we all knew, and it was growing in the previous phase - the question of added value.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u372	Mr. Dritsa, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u373	Not a single screw has so far been ordered to the Piraeus crafts sector for the investments of 'COSCO'! What is the added value? And from this point of view, the decisions of the ESAL and all the plans for the future of the port of Piraeus and Thessaloniki must concern everyone. The new course of the ten ports is still going a long way. We need to see the role of HICP - and agree on whether or not we have HIAD, the New Democracy must take a position on this - and the role of the port agency and who will play the role of Port Authority, the public port authority. This is a pan-European acquis. And to see how exactly the combined prospects of the development of the ports are made. This base is a starting point and it has a long way to go. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u374	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", twenty-eight students and students and five teachers from the Elementary Schools of Neohora, Sitarias and Via Florina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Miltiadis Varvitsiotis has the floor from New Democracy. He's the last speaker on the list, and then we'll move on to secondary. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u375	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have seen such a hypocrisy recital for years. On the one hand, Mr. Dritsa says it's bad to privatize the PPA and on the other Mr. Dritsa signed it. Why didn't you quit? You shouldn't sign her if she was so bad. Why didn't you quit? That's how politicians do, Mr. Dritsa. When they feel that the pencil is heavy, they quit. They don't sign and then they come here and say good-looking pine nuts, seeing the opposition gate to do the same thing you did the other day! You protested every Tuesday and Thursday with Lafazanis outside my office and you come here today and say - the government says it, not you - how much the port of Piraeus has developed, how beneficial the strategic relationship with China is. The Prime Minister advertises this relationship at every opportunity. And you come here today and you follow the model - which we have been telling you for years is to be imposed in this country - on the use of port property, beyond the public sector, with synergies with the private sector. It's what you blamed Karamanlis for. That's the reality. And if you want to talk about the dead in the Aegean, I can tell you that they were eight hundred six in 2015 and four hundred thirty-four in 2016. That's what the Turkish coast guard says. Because for your own days the information was incomplete. That was the policy of the open borders. It was her! And you dare even leave the suggestion that the people of the port in an unfortunate search and rescue operation were turned into murderers. I've heard it from your colleagues. That is why you have been dominated for so many years. And now you're doing counterpopulation exercises. But you know what? You have turned Greek shipping instead of a modern growth boat on an old steamer. Do you know who has benefited from your policy over the last four years? You favoured one. Cyprus. The companies settled in Cyprus on SYRIZA were doubled. It's been two hundred. One year you have the master plan, the investment plan of the port of Piraeus. And it was approved just yesterday, with thousands of sects and, of course, without any of the serious development investments that will develop the city of Piraeus, such as exhibition center, Logistics centre, hotels. This is all out. Time on SYRIZA has become worse than "PASOK time". Minister, I appreciate you. You are, however, one of the few ministers who have celebrated the cancellation of their own decision. You are the only Minister to celebrate how you solved the problem you created with VAT on pleasure boats. You come today and cancel the work of all your predecessors. Again, competitions for port guards and port officers, while until the day before yesterday, he celebrated how they were doing an academy and that's over and they will be in the pan-Hellenic exams. You are here and bring back provisions that you will cancel. This provision you bring for pleasure boats, that on the ship without a governor the owner of the ship should hire his client as governor is a provision of unprecedented funnyness, not to say anything worse. And, of course, the other provision you had brought very recently was the extension of the status of the type "AYIA ZONI", on which the Prime Minister celebrated that he abolished it. You brought it here a few weeks ago. What policy has it achieved to you? The fact that you have had a submitted request since 2014, which was repeated in 2016 and 2017 for the use of the port of Lavrio as a cruise port and you have it and it is cancerd and sitting there when we have a reduction of the cruise ships in Greece? Tell us what policy has been achieved by what you have done. The fact that for four years you have been unable to make a tender by making use of European funding for the support of the port? The competitions have just been held lately. Three ministers have gone to see the last one, the third to sign for some competitions. We are still listening to Mr. Tsipras saying that we will have competitions so that business can go to the Greek shipyards. You do a big one and go to an Italian shipyard. What did you do? Mr. Kurublis came by a while ago and told us about the schools, etc. Let them turn and see and tell him what the labels say from the renovations and KESEN and Mechanonia and Syros and Kymi and Kefalonia. When did these school renovations become? And what did you manage? How much have you increased employment? You are at the end of a term which for Greek shipping sent a very bad message, the message that Greece does not include it in its strategic development objectives. It became Brexit and we heard Mr. Kurubli how he went on to IMO and London to bring operations from Brexit, get them to settle here. Who brought it? Who's a classification? Who's P&I? Who's settled in? Didn't you realize there was a runway? Go away! And of course, let me tell you something last and very sad. When we started this story of the ports and led to the decision to privatise, it was because now in Piraeus there was no interest in any further concession. You are now coming to confirm the policy that this work must be done by the TIAD - you found it until the day before yesterday, but of course now under the control of the U.S.O. - and you make it so difficult for it to succeed as if you wanted to shoot the feet of any effort. You have a variable rate of replacement, you have thousands of bureaucratic formalities. You've built the most disgusting mechanism for the licensing of port projects. It appeared from the recent decision by the ESAL. And you have not yet dared to tell the local communities a great apology, to tell Lavrio, to tell Alexandroupolis, which we kept hearing how the big hub will become, to tell Volos, to tell Corfu why so long didn't proceed with things that could be done. You were kept behind by your inability, ideoscopy, and your ties with specific interests locally or other. That's the reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u376	Mr President, I would like to speak after my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u377	Fortunately this situation will change and it will change because a government determined to take decisions quickly because time is not endless. SYRIZA's lessons and training time at the beginning of modern governance ended. Now you are going to your role, to your natural space, to the opposition, where you will really do, from what we saw a moment ago, exercises by saying to everyone that "we are opposed to the policy that we implemented until the day before." Then nobody will listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u378	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u379	Okay, don't worry. Easy. You obviously asked for the floor on something said by Mr Varvitsiotis, but at the same time - and before Mr Varvitisotis concludes - the parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA has asked for the floor. Contact each other so that you do not bring the Bureau to a difficult position to choose. Who wants to be promoted? I have no objections. You'll both talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u380	I'll be waiting, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u381	Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor. It's typical, but will you take advantage of the time? You're entitled to the tenth plus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, thank you. I'll be very brief. It is more about what is going on in this Chamber in terms of the style and the morality of the speakers and the morality that we owe to the citizens who are watching us and the honour of this Parliament. Yesterday, Mr Kegeroglou, in a fierce style, offended the substance of parliamentaryism by glorifying from this step and against me and against the Minister. They've been recorded in the papers. Today he asks Mr Varvitsiotis noble, for his publications from the Step of the House, Mr. Thodoros Dritsas, former Minister of Shipping, to Mr. Miltiadis Varvitsiotis, former Minister of Maritime Affairs. He said a thousand five hundred dead in the Aegean Sea, a specific year. It was written on facebook - I don't know - on an official step, anyway, like facebook. He is invited by the Step of the House, Mr Dritsa, most sincerely, to present evidence and an answer to 'other words to be loved'. In fact, he does not answer, or he despises his colleague, despises Parliament's Step and prefers the step of facebook. At least he didn't complain. He just had an extremely aggressive style that I didn't understand from who he's asking for an account. From himself? I appeal to the Members present, to those who are following us - because people are watching us - and in the Bureau of Parliament, firstly, if they are heard again by a colleague to exaggerate on the staff in this vulgar way Mr Kegeroglou has done, to exaggerate, to suffer the anticipated consequences. That is the essence of politics, of keeping human rules between us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u383	Mr. Kydakis, I'm sorry to interrupt you. We do not disagree with both the attitude of the Step and, in general, in our debate, which should be on the basis of political controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u384	You weren't in the Chair.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u385	But are you referring to an event that happened yesterday? I don't have any knowledge. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u386	Mr President, let me summarise this. I'm not having a dialogue right now with you. I'm not making any suggestions to the Bureau either. However, what is being distributed here is posted in the public space. What Mr Kegeroglu said yesterday - and he did not receive any answer and no credit - is being commented on in all the newspapers today, with very great remarks against him, which are being made, I feel, and to us in the House of Members. Likewise, the acidity, not inappropriate, however, of Mr Varvitsiotis and the avoidance of responding to the substance of things that have been written elsewhere and not here in Parliament, because we are elected Members of Parliament, elected, elected and that is an issue. Let's learn to talk civilizedly. We are political opponents, we are neither enemies nor bums in cafes and we are in such ways. That's what I had to say. His staff, Mr. Dritsas, are in a position excellently to negotiate and defend it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u387	Mr. Dritsa, you asked for the floor. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u388	I will speak for two minutes, Mr President. I was expecting greater bravery and institutional function than Mr Varvitsiotis. Here in Parliament he said this about the thousands of five hundred dead from that seat. I tabled the official evidence, honoring the memory of Mr. Papadopoulos. That didn't even respect it. He's been invoked by Fake News of Turkish origin as an answer. Is that institutional function? Is it an honor to the Port Corps? Is it an honor to the dead refugees and immigrants? From that point on, this way of conduct accompanies everything else. Yes, we stayed in our place, and I and the Prime Minister and the Government, to save anything - if saved - from the privatization of the port of Piraeus and we saved too much, for the benefit of the Greek society, the workers, the environment, Piraeus, the wider region of Piraeus. These are recorded. And that's a huge difference. And that is the proposal of the current ministers for the rest of the ten ports.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u389	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u390	Mr President, these are very important, and I do not have a way of expanding, but because Mr Katsaniotis too...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u391	Now don't talk personally, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u392	This must also not remain unanswered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u393	You requested the floor on what Mr Varvitsiotis said. You answered as you wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u394	Mr. Kefaliannis has insulted me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u395	I think now that we should not extend to other people who are not in the Chamber. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u396	Mr President, I will speak for less than fifteen seconds. Mr. Kammenos' unfortunate expression for 20 minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u397	Excuse me, are we now going to revert to the comments of ministers and MPs? We can get a decade back. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u398	I've been challenged, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u399	You are actually underestimating the debate that is taking place in this way. That, if you wish, we shall discuss it in other institutions in Parliament, in the Conference of Presidents, wherever you wish. You are making your proposal, accepted by the Bureau and by the President of Parliament, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u400	I was provoked by Mr. Kefaliannis and Mr. Katsaniotis. If you don't want me to stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u401	But I'm sorry! You requested the floor on staff. For no other reason, as you know very well from the Rules of Procedure, the floor is not given.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u402	And that's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u403	You have referred to what has been said - the figures and so on. - Mr. Varvitsiotis. I think you gave your opinion, your opinion. From there on, there is no reason for us to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u404	I stop, but this too was personal, both by Mr. Kefaliannis and Mr. Katsaniotis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u405	Let's move on to the second grades.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u406	Mr President, may I have the floor to give some clarification?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u407	Please, it's not personal. Nothing has been said. Unless it's some kind of evidence clarification. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u408	Mr President, I would like to give some clarification on the evidence. The same information has been published by the High Commissioner for UN refugees. They're published all over the planet and it's practically a fist in the stomach. I, with the late Kyriakos, have done many patrols, Mr. Dritsa, in the Aegean Sea, and I knew that he and all the others, the men and women of the port, who serve on the waterways, who are every night at sea, aim to save anyone at risk. I never questioned that. Some others questioned her and then understood their mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u409	Good. Let's move on to the secondary cycle.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u410	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u411	No, please! He answered, as he wanted to answer. We will not impose on him what he will have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u412	It can't be, Mr. President. It's sacred and loyal...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u413	Please, let us move on to secondary school. Mrs Gara, rapporteur of the SYRIZA, has the floor for her dentistry. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet so that we can agree on time!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u414	You should testify. Lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u415	Get your face together! You've got a worse look than Mr. Polakis. Hypocrite!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u416	The evidence we ask you, not cheap characterizations!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u417	I'll testify tomorrow!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u418	Nice respect for the House!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u419	Mr. Varvichiotis, please! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet. Ladies and gentlemen, we should agree on the time of the second reading. Five minutes is enough. Because there are many amendments, and perhaps you would like to be put on the amendments, we will put five minutes with a tolerance. Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u420	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor above all to give some clarifications because in the whole debate some Members have not read the bill very well or have not understood and understood the model introduced today by this bill. But you will allow me to begin with a question that Mr Varvitsiotis has asked as the last speaker and referred to the port of Alexandroupolis. I'll answer one question myself. Mr. Varvichiotis, you've nursed at the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u421	Look, Mrs. Gara, I'm so sorry for the interruption...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u422	I'll be kind, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u423	Your style, alas, it's not a matter. But, when you speak personally, you will have every right after asking the floor, perhaps answer a question, so we continue or perpetuate this type of confrontation, if you like, which is not a confrontation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u424	I respect that, Mr President. However, the procedure seems to me to be discriminatory, and that is why it is also productive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u425	Time is valuable. That is what I wanted to say and apologise again for the interruption. Carry on, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u426	So I would like to ask a question. At the port of Alexandroupolis for 15 years what have you done? Because there has not been a single nail on the terms of the previous governments. The only thing you did over the previous government was to discuss with Americans, Chinese, Russian, Turkish if it is sold out and on what terms it will be sold out. I continue on the occasion of phrases and allegations mainly of the rapporteurs or of the parliamentary representatives. The new Republic's rapporteur said that the draft law we are introducing today is worsening the already heavy situation of ports. I wonder: A bill that has not even been implemented will be ratified today, in exactly how it burdens the current situation? Unless they believe that the only reason to talk about burdening the situation is that we put an end to the logic of full privatization and sales. From there on, there has been talk of the lack of a viability study and of the lack of strategy or of a project in port policy. I wonder: What was the New Democracy port strategy, because, as Mr Dritsas has said on his day, but also the other maritime ministers, it has not been officially tabled here - for the last fifty years, I think, you have spoken, Mr Minister - about a port policy strategy. As we have been informed in the committees, a port strategy has been drawn up. It will be submitted in the next few months and will be discussed in Parliament, including the master plan and the business plan of the regional ports, which have been drawn up in our own term of office. We had regional ports that some were carrying out specific activities, but had never been a whole plan, and it was nowadays with too much pressure. To tell you the truth, because I have been following it since the first day of 2015, these master plan and business plan have been developed precisely to avoid and fight to overthrow the privatisation model that you have launched and move on to the concession model. You asked whether investment in the concession procedure is compulsory. Obviously, it is why we promote this method and this model. The objective is that of activities that require very large investment to exploit the method of concessions to attract large investment. If such investment does not require an activity or exploitation of a port area, it is not compulsory to go through the concessions method. This activity may be carried out and continue to be carried out by the port agency. This is the difference in the method of concessions from the total privatisation or the total transfer of shares. Also, you mentioned that the investor would not know the price beforehand. That is precisely why this sustainability study is being carried out and carried out. For this withdrawal, the most advantageous price will be determined and each investor will know what the conditions are to participate in the international tendering procedure. There will therefore be transparency in terms of terms. All terms and incentives will be in the public form of competitions. It'll all be known. These procedures will draw up international competitions. I would like to address the representative of the Communist Party. Excuse me for ruining the account. Although you are often right in your political criticism, there is no NATO base in Alexandroupolis and in the wider region. I don't know if you've visited her. There's no way we can make that clear. There has been no concession of a land area in the port or NATO, neither to Americans nor to anyone else of any nationality. The only concession made to the land area of Alexandroupolis is specific acres to the Municipality of Alexandroupolis, in order to benefit local society, where they could not be exploited for port activities. He wondered why the competitions were carried out by the TDI. Let us clarify that we have received the concession of the shares and the delivery of the ports to the RIAD and that the port agencies do not have the capacity to conduct international tenders. Finally, I'll say something about the reports Mr. Loverdos made. I'll be short. It was stated that the previous main contracts for ports provided for the procedure and the possibility of concessions. This claim is not valid. The main contracts provided for cooperation with subcontractors. It is precisely for this reason that the main contracts are being ratified and the procedure and the possibility of concessions is provided for. This is precisely why this process and ratification are now being ratified by law and the use of frameworks now for the possibility of concessions. Finally, he asked us what prevented us from using the regional ports for four years. What prevented us were the memorial signatures of the previous governments and not only the memorandum signatures and commitments, but also the ideas they had, I would say, in favour of privatisation. For for the last four years we have guaranteed the rights of workers and a reward fee to the port authorities, but especially to the municipalities concerned, for the benefit of local communities, and above all, we have guaranteed public control of ports, the position of port agencies and the right to exercise public control and public authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u427	The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Placiotakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u428	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I am trying to understand you. I am trying first to understand - and it has not yet been explained - why you are choosing this model. You say that you do so following a political choice, but without specifying exactly what the causes are, the conditions, and of course what studies you have done that. Because you are constantly talking about studies, we and in 2007 when we moved on to the militarisation of the port of Piraeus, we had done studies, we had a price determined, and we did four times above this price. Studies were also carried out at the government of Samaras when we selected the share concession model. But you are now moving towards the legalisation, the prerogative, horizontally for all the ports of the country, using the method of withdrawal, without even taking any interest in the public interest, because neither investments are guaranteed nor are you actually telling us how much revenue you expect from this privatization. We are coming to the last meeting of the ESA. I insist, Minister, that you have theoretically approved all compulsory investments, part of which are optional - and we are talking about EUR 580 million - but you have set specific posts. You have raised heres, for example the adoption of the strategic environmental impact study. I told you there was a study, but there is no planning principle that will examine this study. You told us about legality, about evaluation. No one disagrees either in legality or in evaluation. Where we disagree, Minister, is that these studies, this investment cannot wait and cannot wait indefinitely. Because when the officials of the Ministry of Culture do two and three years, as they did in Greek, no investment will go ahead, and of course we are sending a negative signal to potential foreign candidates. So the crucial issue is time, timing and what a message we are sending out to the international community. I remember Mr Tsipras in China when he was announced by the President of China or Prime Minister - I do not remember exactly - that they will proceed to EUR 300 million on a voluntary basis. Finally, we come three years later and absolutely nothing has gone ahead. Mandatory investments must be completed by 2021 and there is still no development at all. Mr. Dritsa, the national port strategy has been submitted to the website of your former Ministry and, above all, it has been presented to the European Commission. You tell me where your national strategic port study is. Where is he? Will you finally present it to us? And tell me how many works have been done in our ports for the last four years? None. We are now coming to the amendments. This is where it starts, you know, the big party. Amendment to the control of ships and approval of ships by the competent authority. Look, Minister, we are not surprised to have tabled this amendment, because the matter comes after the submersion of 'Agia ZONI 2'. At that time, of course, the Prime Minister himself showed his own hand, who called a Ministerial Council in Maximos and immediately came to the conclusion. Inspection of commercial ships should be abolished. He even hinted on the work of the representatives of the Port Authority. And be careful, the findings are coming both from ELYDNA and ASNA and exposing the Prime Minister and the government irreparably. That, Mr Kouvelli, was pointed out by the previous Minister. He hadn't taken it into consideration. We have pointed out that it is impossible for the Ministry of Auditors not to have any verifiers. You insisted that you do not certify ship controllers through the school. We have also told you and we have pointed out to you that if classification societies are able to cover all ships in these categories. And today you are coming to testify another sample of your dubiousness and prove that you are introducing - it says - the vertical checks. Literally, Minister, you're scaring us. Do you not know that this right - an obligation is provided for by Community regulations, but also by the agreements of each classification? Have or have the classification societies you've authorised enough? Now, the amendment on the stepping-up of commercial ship inspection comes essentially to supplement what we have said earlier on the clipping of the legislature and the squeezed-up because of 'Agia ZONI 2'. The amendment relives the local staircases and gives them control powers for small vessels. We have all pointed this out. Why should inspectors' qualifications be determined by a ministerial decision? Why are these inspectors not included in Article 10 of Law 4504/2017? Because today in another amendment it is stated that the certification of recovery in case of a departure ban should be carried out by staff from a port body qualified under n.i.i. 16/2011. We should add another category of inspectors with different qualifications here. You are also telling us that each port authority will keep a separate dossier for each ship. What happens when a ship is inspected at another port authority? Are we gonna have two and three files? What the Minister says is that 'along with the classification societies, an inspection works only by the regional and not the central agency', only as a joke can be taken into account. I have to do this because when we asked Mr Kurubli if they have worked with the classification societies and if they were able to take up the task assigned to them by Law 4504, he did not respond. In other words, they trust in the control of the ships of the Port College of the Region and not the high-ranking staff of the central services. Now with regard to the amendment to RAL, Minister, this amendment really should have come to another bill. We did not have the opportunity to consider it. But I would like to make a comment. There is a provision to extend the possibility of imposing sanctions on RAL pursuant to Regulation No 352 of 2017 on port services. What exactly is it about the full implementation of the regulation? This Regulation will apply from March 2019. To conclude, I would like to thank Mr Santorinios for finally recognising that Crete is an island. Thank you, Minister. However, I would like to point out this after the remark of Mr Kavvada's dear colleague. I think Lefkada should also be recognized as an island. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u429	Mr Karras, a special speaker from the Democratic Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u430	Mr President, a lot of issues have been raised. I'll try to be brief. Before all, I'll say that. A position was mentioned yesterday by my colleague Mr Kegeroglu. I think what happened yesterday. The issues have been answered in full, and it was not appropriate to come back today. I therefore do not answer that, since Mr Xydakis is no longer present. We're going further on the bill. I have said on many occasions, and I and my colleagues from the Democratic Incorporation, that our positions on port policy are to have a uniform planning, and these are our reservations on the draft bill, that it may have been heard that each port has its own master plan, but all this together should have come to a single overall study, categorizing the possibilities of concessions in each of the ten ports. And that is to know whether they can compete with, supplement or in any case whether they are useful or are being rushed by the TSE in order to achieve the objective of demobilization, as well as the receipts made by the Greek state. I am referring to the concession provided for in the draft law, for which, of course, we know neither the amount nor the budget. I'm going further. Recessions, Mr President, will be reasonable if and if they are not among themselves, I repeat, competitive. I'm closing this point too. Because, as I said before, the proximity between ports for maritime transport and transport is close. Kavala and Alexandroupolis are close. So is Volos. There is also the port of Thessaloniki. The bill does not answer these critical questions, and we therefore remain negative at first. There was a rain, I'd name it, amendments. It's a common word. It's been heard too many times. In any case, we have tried to classify the need for the amendments and we have tried to classify each other's feasibility. Of course, there are also amendments which constitute a whole piece of legislation. It could have been every single separate piece of legislation. They've come from a number of expedited ministries. Many may have value to be supported, others not. I will, in essence, remain in the amendments of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Island Policy on the grounds that it is the acceding ministers who have also introduced the bill today in plenary and previously in committee to discuss port policy issues, rather than to be more appropriate port policy. We have a last-minute amendment. I've noted the time. He came down on 16.32 and we received knowledge one hour later when he was distributed by the services of the Parliament. This amendment intervenes, too much in the process, in the responsibilities of the Port Regulatory Authority. This amendment, if you want me to speak frankly, because of the volume and since the Port Regulatory Authority has not yet delivered it, because it is an institution that was created relatively recently, in 2016 - the representative, the chairman, I think, came to the committee, but was not convincing in particular the answers he gave us in relation to the bill - we cannot support it, Mr President, for this reason. On the one hand, we discussed in committee with a body - a representative of the RAL, the President or the governor - I do not know what it is called - and today an amendment which redistributes responsibilities is changing them. This fact cannot be considered. It cannot be associated with the bill on the one hand, even if it is made means to indicate that it will be the supervisory authority and on the other hand on the backing. That could have been just a small paragraph in the bill's trunk, that is, where we came to give guarantees, where we came to say detailed issues and we have a reference to RAL's responsibilities. That would be enough. If the government, the ministers wanted to bring in new legislation, there should have been legislation in the normal process rather than under the violence and the speed of the amendment. If I am not mistaken, Mr President, the text of the amendment as far as I see it - half a minute to see the numbering of his last page - is forty-eight pages. So when, as rapporteur, I have the responsibility of following what has been said in Ethiopia, of forming an opinion, of proposing that we vote on other amendments, etc., you understand that I do not have time to do so. I would not say that this is a deterioration in Parliament, because we are used to it now, it is a daily phenomenon with the amendments. We are being given various explanations that when the General Secretariat of the Government did not forward them, when the General Accounting Office of the State was delayed. We have overlooked them at the speed with which the government is now attempting to legislate. However, this is a bill from the expedited Ministry and Ministers and an amendment is coming to this extent and these consequences from the same Ministry. I shall give just one example, Mr President, so that I do not abuse time. It has a conflict of competence, certainly, this amendment. The Public Contract Authority shall apply. It is an institution that we are trying to establish. It comes and says, therefore, that RAL also exercises the powers of the Public Procurement Authority. These are contradictory to each other. The supervising department cannot be the department that controls contracts on legal basis, etc. We are voting against this amendment. Of course, there is also a second amendment. I only limit my time to the issues of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. The amendment, which now concerns competences, is already known, who will have the responsibility and the certificates and the control of maritime safety. Will the classification societies have it? Who are they, etc.Huh? Greek? Foreigners? We know the history. Will the state agencies have it? Yes, we do not say that they should not have the public services, even at the last level of control. I would say, Mr President, when it became the shipwreck of "Agia ZONI", Mr Kurublis quickly denounced, removed responsibility from the Maritime Inspection and assigned it to classification societies. We see today that this did not walk. In any case, there's a swan. I also see an amendment from Mr Kamaterou's dear colleague. So I see Mr Kamatterou's amendment. It leads me to be a part of the Ministry's amendment. I don't draw any conclusions on what he's looking for. He was accepted by Mr. Kouvelis. At the time of acceptance, however, the Ministry of Shipping's amendment had not been accepted. I have a confusion, I have to admit. Therefore, in this amendment, and by my colleague and the Ministry, we will remain in the 'at present' because, at any rate, we understand what the government's policy on shipping control would be, not just maritime transport, but maritime safety. The major issue is the safety of ships. To finish and not to abuse more time, I would like to repeat this: there is an amendment with a general number of 1974 and a special 54, which has some positive points. Here too, you know, Mr President, that there are amendments which are many articles. The Rules of Procedure do not allow. You either vote or vote against. You can't cut, "filetize" each article. There are, therefore, the same positive provisions, provisions on which we cannot agree, but we are driving against those in which the negative element prevails - not quantitatively but qualitatively many times - and in the draft law they are presented as separate articles. This is, therefore, again a legislative function, which is particularly curious. I have made a comment in the past that when we want to pass on something or not to be heard by the Members of Parliament under the pressure of time or within the best chances of passing something from the wicked, this arrangement is being made. There is, therefore, this amendment with a general number of 1974 and a specialist, 54, which has a lot of negative effects, and I just want to stress its positive one. It is good that we have proposed in homeless structures that they should be subject to the beneficiaries - for the allowance for unhealthy work - and those who work in homeless structures. That includes the amendment, it is good, but we cannot vote. We simply point out that this is a good regulation. We cannot vote as a whole because it has negative provisions. With these thoughts, Mr President, I am closing. I could speak very much, because here we have some volumes, perhaps hundreds of pages of amendments. I understand the stress of the Chamber and mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u431	Thank you, Mr. Carras. The special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr President. Is this a progressive or reactionary bill? Is it because of the people or the monopolies? To these questions we are clearly answering: it is reactionary and serves monopolistic groups, which want new ground for profit on land, air and sea. And you, gentlemen, give public land, gypsies, beaches, airports, ports to the large business groups or, as the committees have said, they have declared interest in embassies of states in specific activities. SYRIZA's rapporteur criticised us, because we said that Alexandroupolis, like Thessaloniki, is being transformed into military bases, an imperialist intervention centre in the Balkans, in the wider region. Ms. Gara, the American ambassador who praises ministries, regions, municipalities, promoting US plans in Alexandroupolis why did he go? For tourism? The meetings were about the wind and water? Didn't the deputy chief meet? The mayor didn't meet? With the President of the Port Authority Alexandroupolis, did he not meet? What did they talk about? What did Piat himself write? That the port of Alexandroupolis is a crucial link in regional trade, energy security in Europe and the work we do together in NATO. What are you doing together, SYRIZA and the USA in NATO? Aren't you the hinges of design in the area? Are you not implementing the plans, with Greece becoming an infinite basis and a corresponding objective of the competitive imperialist centres? Haven't you heard of the Americans' great interest in the port of Alexandroupolis? Is it just for liquefied gas? The people need to condemn the political service of imperialist designs from you, as does New Democracy. You have a common strategy in both internal and foreign policy. Your allies, the enemies of workers and people's barracks, the business groups, monopolistic groups and their transnational imperialist organisations, such as NATO, the European Union and other organisations. So the draft law doesn't fit any more. It's reactionary. The fact that it has certain regulations that may benefit workers does not change its character, which comes to serve the needs of business groups. A lot of amendments. We denounce, Mr President, once again this practice of the government to bring about only five, until the debate ends, amendments to various issues from various ministries. The amendment, with a general number of 1970 and a special 50, the transition of the Ministry's competence and the break-up of services and responsibilities of the Ministry of the Interior - so that I do not analyse it - we are voting 'at present' because the shortcomings of permanent staff and the break-up of services create serious problems for both workers and citizens. For Parliament's number 1971 accepted, in order to control ships and call from the competent authority, we are voting 'yes'. The amendment with a general number of 1972 and a special number of 52 has two articles. One is for fishing that we are voting on today and one for the homicide that we are voting on 'in the face' because this amendment also continues to dismantle the homicide. It is good that it will be sooner. The main thing, however, is that the mechanism is dispersed, dissolved, with little money being wasted by contractors who are uncontrolled. Our position is to be a state responsibility, staffed with permanent staff and sufficient funding. All those who have the olives know very well what the problems are because there is no such care. But we must also say something about services, Mr President. Because we are going to be called upon to vote on the amendments here, not as you have at the very least with articles, but the whole of the amendments, there is a serious issue. We are obliged, for example, to vote against an amendment, although we want to vote in favour of an article. That is therefore unacceptable. I do not know how the government will use it, but the agencies are putting serious problems to the MPs or parties who want to vote on an amendment, but as you ask us to vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u433	Mr. Katsotis, I'm sorry for the interruption. To restore reality, I say it's not the services' fault. That's the Rules of Procedure. It is a question of the Rules of Procedure and the services operate on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. You're right about that. Everyone at times raises this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u434	So the amendment should come separately, or whether the government really wants articles to be voted on to solve some problems, it can bring them into a separate amendment and not force the parties to vote 'in favour' or, anyway, abstain, as we do today from an amendment. The amendment, under a general number 1973, and a special number 53, concerns the dismissal of persons holding directors, presidents, etc. ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL AREA We are, of course, voting 'as against' and we are asking, Mr Minister, that you withdraw this amendment, not to say 'introduction'. The amendment with a general number 1974 and a special number 54 have four articles. The first is to amend Article 25 for the legal service of the Deposit and Loan Fund. We are voting 'at present'. In the second article we are voting 'v.'. I'm saying it now because they're all coming together. In the third article on social security institutions, we vote 'yes'. We believe, of course, that the state aid for social security has fallen sharply. It must be increased, meet the needs of the insured. Article 4 shall be extended until 31 October 2019 the deadline for the completion of the Evaluation Committee for the Committee of the Heavy and Unhealthy Occupations. We are against this committee, which aims to respond to specialties from heavy and unhealthy and not to comply, it aims to abolish allowances and not to maintain them. However, we are voting "yes", following the suggestion and will of the workers themselves, who had occupied the Ministry of Finance today, because it is extended until 31 October 2019. Workers should not rest, but continue to fight, so that other specialities can be integrated into them. The amendment with a general number of 1975 and a special number of 55 also has five articles. In the first, we shall vote 'no', in the second 'no', in the fourth 'no', in the fifth 'no'. We call this for it to be written in the Minutes. The amendment, with a general number 1976 and a special number 56, is about the pay of the benefit to the socially beneficial work programmes. Of course, we say that even a euro increase to get the worker, we will vote to get it, and we must take it. However, here comes the government to say that these programmes contribute to reducing unemployment, increasing employment, but these programmes are programmes for the recycling of unemployment, they are now five months, eight months later, then again to unemployment, then again to another programme or may for a long time be in unemployment, of course, with the minimum rate you are saying today, which decides on the Minister and abolishes collective bargaining for the minimum wage. That is why we will be voting 'at present', although we say that these workers should also be paid for in collective labour agreements rather than in the lowest wage. They're benefiting from hospitals. Why should there be no collective agreement and not be rewarded with it and rewarded with the lowest? The amendments tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the We will abstain from voting on this amendment because it has four articles on the Port Regulatory Authority, which we disagree with and have three articles on the seafarers' collective agreements, as this has been developed here and as is in the amendment, as well as on the payment of holiday allowances. You're talking about the fine. Why not have the shipowner, the businessman who does not pay the gift to seafarers, as is for all workers? Why are you only confined to a thousand euros fines for each seafarer? He must have the same penalty, the same treatment. But that's not what you're doing. You're talking about a thousand euros. A thousand euros for the shipowner. He's screwed up anyway. We therefore say that you should do this even now and be on the basis of the law applicable to all the other workers. However, we are abstaining from this vote, even though it has these three articles which are in the interests of seafarers. In Amendment No 58, we will vote 'yes', although our position is that there is a need for state ship control infrastructure to ensure the safety and health of workers and passengers at sea.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u435	Thank you. The second cycle of the rapporteurs-voices has been completed. We will give the Minister the floor to close the debate on the bill and then proceed to the vote. Mr. Kouvelli, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u436	Ladies and gentlemen, because there has been mention, in fact, of what I am hearing, there are findings on the causes and circumstances under which the 'Athens ZONI' has been submerged. It is now the whole case in the hands of Greek justice. I believe that justice itself will be dealt with without delay in order to clarify the facts and to show responsibility, in accordance with the procedures laid down by the law. We do not issue preliminary rulings. This is a matter of justice itself, which I believe will be dealt with without delay, in order to bring about all those elements relating to the shipwreck or the sabotage, as I have heard from relevant publications mentioned in the IASA conclusion. I have heard various things, which are unrealistic and are not about reality. For example, I have heard a colleague from the New Democracy saying that in recent years the port of Patras has gone from evil to worse. That's not a reality. I must tell you that the port of Patras has also increased its revenues, i.e. it has activities. I have evidence in front of me. The port of Patras year after year raises its performance. He received little money in 2015 and today has 4.5 million, if I remember well. Today, EUR 9 million has been available, that is, from 4.5 million over this period, to EUR 9 million. It's also an increased trade move. This testifies to the evidence and the relevant evidence that the port of Patras - and it is indicative of my reference to this port, I will say two - three more things about the ports - is going well, is in progress. In recent years more than EUR 31 million have been invested in general. I must also tell you that there have been approvals for a hundred and fifty - six projects in ports. What, then, is the inappropriateness charged to the government and its policy on ports? A special reference has been made by a colleague in relation to the expression of interest or not by various investors. A specific manifestation of interest in this or the problem of activity and in specific ports has not been carried out. And how could it be, since this piece of legislation was missing, that will be state law tomorrow morning? How are the investments going to be? When I mentioned the existence of master plans, I made this report because the master plan identifies too many things and among them identifies the parts of the port, that is, the parts of how they can be developed and how they can be integrated into this process of recovery. Is it conservative, is this draft law anachronistic? It is progressive, in that it serves progress and growth, growth for local communities, growth for the national economy, and obviously growth that can also lead to job creation. Reference was again made to 'COSCO'. Well, did you not hear on the basis of specific facts, ladies and gentlemen, that there was no delay on the part of the ESA, the government - to say it more overall - when I told you where the delays have occurred and in a very specific way? Did you find that any choice made by the ESRB in particular should not become the investments provided for in the concession agreement? However, I told you - and I did not see any different view expressed - that the law will be applied, the concession agreement will be applied and the ESA has proceeded with the approval of all the investments that I referred to at noon on this day that we are meeting. Don't intervene? Not to perform his duties the Ministry of Culture? Not to carry out his duties the Ministry of the Environment? They must be exercised and this is legality. I'm going back to the model. I said it to the committee, and I repeat it today. The New Democracy blames us for acting ideologically, blocking the use and investment in ports. I have in my hands - I will repeat it, because I told the committee too - the New Democracy National Port Strategy of 2013-2018. This post was posted in December 2013 without, of course, reaching the House and in this post New Democracy mentions its own ports policy. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, what the New Democracy says about word and I read what it says: 'Opening ports in private concessions, with appropriate experience and place on the world market, in the form of granting the right to use and develop a particular port activity, for example cruise, containers, car terminal, marina and the obligation to implement the necessary investments'. One question was raised: Will candidate investors be bound by the notice on their participation in the competitive process and on certain investments in ports themselves? Of course. And that is a question of the content of the notice, which - I repeat - will be of a public nature, of an international nature, with absolute transparency and application of both our national law and Union law. I cannot therefore see the New Democracy giving up on us today because we are opting for the process of concessions. Ladies and gentlemen, by serving my consistency in the cage, I will conclude. With regard to inspection, the qualifications of inspectors who will be invited to check on classification societies - the others will be made from the local arrays - in a few days' time you will be able to see them because a long consultation was preceded by what the inspectors' qualifications would be. The act we have acted on this - and I repeat - without prejudice to the competence of classification societies to give certificates of airworthiness, but also to the existence of the state, to have the specific structure, which is mentioned in detail, which can also make control by means of the additional provided - as I have said - that there are 'orchids' vessels, that is to say, the classification societies have not accepted and must be checked to obtain the certificate of airworthiness. The last issue - not that the scale of the answers we could answer has been exhausted - indeed after it - and I am particularly pleased that all the aspects of the House agree on the arrangement that has been made for the late Mr Papadopoulos and his family - there is one issue, that is to say, to see more in proportion - if you like - or in analogous to what is happening in the Armed Forces, namely the Ministry of National Defence, when we have such incidents. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it is a piece of legislation - remember - which paves the way for ports to develop. It is a piece of legislation that allows the Greek State to keep the ports and at the same time as the method of concessions - without transferring shares, because then it would be another issue - to control and collect for the public fund as well, but of course by attaching part of what will also be collected to local government. Because we insist: Fair growth means that the result resulting from any development process is fair to spread to society's joints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u437	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-three students and students and three educational sessions from the General School of Canalidas Preveza. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is adjourned at this point: "For the ratification of concessions concluded between the Greek State and the Port Authority. - Provisions for the functioning of the port governance system and other provisions'. We are entering the vote on the principle, on the articles, amendments and on the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. Let us point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of thirty articles, of ten amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. As you now know, up to four articles in the vote appear on the screen. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. The main condition is to make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments and also the farewell article as a whole. After your vote has been registered, you can check and revise your vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened and that the vote be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u438	Once you have completed the vote, please close the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u439	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows: By a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. Article 1, as amended, by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: No. Article 2 shall be by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: No. Article 3, as amended, by a majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: No. Article 4 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: No. Article 5 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. Article 6 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. Article 7 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. Article 8, as amended, by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: No. Article 9, as amended, by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 10, as amended, by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. Article 11 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 12, as amended, by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Article 13 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Article 14 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. Article 15 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 16 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. Article 17 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Article 18, as amended, by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Article 19 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Yes. Article 20 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 21 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Yes. Article 22 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 23 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 24 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: No. Article 25 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: No. Article 26, acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. Article 27, acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 28 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. Article 29 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Article 30 as acting by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Ministerial Amendment 1970/50 as it stands by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: No. Ministerial Amendment 1972/52 as follows: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Present. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Present. Ministerial Amendment 1973/53 reads as follows: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Yes. Ministerial Amendment 1974/54 reads as follows: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Present. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: No. Ministerial Amendment 1975/55 as it stands by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: No. Ministerial Amendment 1976/56 reads as follows: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: Yes. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: Present. Centro Association: Yes. Ministerial Amendment 1977/57 as a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. The JRC abstained. Centro Association: Present. Ministerial Amendment 1978/58 reads as follows: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Present. Parliamentary Amendment 1971/51, as amended by a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Parliamentary Amendment 1979/59 as follows: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISSY: Present. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. KIC: Yes. Centro Association: Yes. Cereals Article as a majority: SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PISS: Yes. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. The total majority. SYRIZA: Yes. New Republic: No. PUSSY: No. People's Association - Golden Dawn: No. JRC: No. Centro Association: Present. The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u440	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy: "In order to ratify the concession agreements concluded between the Greek State and the Port Authority S.A. - Provisions for the functioning of the port administration system and other provisions’ has been accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of Articles and of the Articles and of the Articles, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u441	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u442	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" room and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 6th Corfu Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-21-S1-commons.u443	With the consent of the House at 20.27 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 22 February 2019 at 10.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
