ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 8-2-2019 delegation, the minutes of the OB's meetings of Friday 8 February 2019 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau in respect of the adoption of the draft law as a whole: ‘Creation of the Protocol to the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia’.]] First of all, we will take the oath of Mr Terrence - Spencer - Nikolau Quik, replacing Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos who resigned. My colleague, Mr Terrence - Spencer - Nikolaos Quick, is invited to come and give the nominated by the Constitution and the Rules of the House an oath before the representative of the Church. [[This is where Members Mr Terrence - Spencer - Nikolaos Quik comes in and gives the following oath:]] "I swear in the name of the Holy and Omousia and Indivisible Trinity to be loyal to the homeland and the democratic city, to obey the Constitution and the laws and to fulfill conscientiously my duties" Worthful, worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-11-S1-commons.u2	I wish you success, my colleague! There has also been a letter from Mr. Quick, which I will read: "Mr. President of the Greek Parliament, After my current oath as the 20th Independent MEP of the Greek Parliament, I inform you that, by exercising my right to vote against conscience, I will support the legislative initiatives of the Government, based on the entire government programme that they voted twice, January and September 2015, the then co-chairing parties SYRIZA - ANEL, as well as those resulting from the last budget, which also voted as a whole, in December 2018, the then co-chairing parties SYRIZA - ANEL. In other words, what I had said to the turbulent Ministerial Council is true and I repeated it with my recent statements: 'I will support the government until the last day of its constitutional deadline. With my stated intention, I do not step aside to facilitate the attempt to return those who have captured Greece and who hope in hoods of their crimes." Yours sincerely Terrence Quick."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-11-S1-commons.u3	I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-11-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, there have been eleven topical questions in the agenda for today's topical and urgent debate, but they will not be discussed for the following reasons: In particular, the first question under number 331/5-2-2019 of the First Cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis (Panos) Skouriakou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Published abolition of the DU Acharon”, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Papanatsiou, due to a workload. The second question under number 328/4-2-2019, first question by MP Athens, New Democracy, Kikilia, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Crisis of the Supreme Leader in the Armed Forces (ED)", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Apostolakis, due to a workload. The third, with number 316/29-1-2019, is a top-stage question by the Member of the Laconia Parliamentary Party of the Democratic Integration Mr. Leonida Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delays in the crossing of patients from the EKA in Intensive Treatment Units due to a lack of medical staff", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paulakis, due to a workload. The fourth question under number 332/5-2-2019 of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on "the chronic problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI)", will not be discussed due to an impediment by Deputy Minister Mr. Polakis, due to a workload. The first question under number 329/4-2-2019 of a second question by the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Creation of a Bran Branch of Hospital/Oncological Clinic at the General Hospital of Drama", will also not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Paulakis, on account of a workload. The second question, under number 322/4-2-2019, on the second question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Constantine Barriots, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Exceedances with chemistry preparations", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister, Mr. Polakis, on account of a workload. The third, with number 336/5-2-2019, topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis, on the transfer of real estate to a Public Real Estate Company (ETAD) - Fund for the Development of Private Property of the Public Treasury (THIC) will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou, who is in the Eurogroup. The fourth under number 307/28-1-2019 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Constantine Skreka, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Healthy hotel businesses are at risk of 'built' on account of VAT charge', will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Papanatsiou, on account of a workload. The fifth under No. 299/28-1-2019 topical question by the Deputy Serres of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr. Michael Jelelis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Increased in the violation of the Serres Law and the Subordinated Police Directorate of Serres", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Minister of Civil Protection Mr.Gerovasilis, due to her obligations in the Ministry. The sixth question, under number 283/21-1-2019, of a second question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation Mr Yiannis Koutsoukou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the Uttoms as demanded by the lenders of fifty-fifths of the public in the Municipality of Pyrgos", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of Finance Mr Tsakalotou, who is at Eurogroup. The seventh question under number 281/21-1-2019 from the second question of the Independent MEP II, Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “ENPIA for Building Cooperatives”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Papanatsiou, because of a workload. The eighth Question No 262/9-1-2019 on a second question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "An urgent need for an increase in military service" will not be discussed. The first question with number 2932/31-10-10-2018 question of the circle of petitions by MP II of the Democratic Association Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on "Democracy of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the 2nd High School of Athens", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotou, who is in the Eurogroup. For all this, there is also a letter from the Secretariat of the Government and Mr Kaidazis. Ladies and gentlemen, before we close the sitting I have to make a statement to this House. The Vice-President of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, Minister of Interior, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Infrastructure and Transport, Deputy Ministers of Finance, and the Deputy Minister of Finance, tabled today 11 February 2019 a draft law: ‘Cooperative transformations and harmonisation of the legislative framework with the provisions of Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoices in the framework of public procurement’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-11-S1-commons.u5	With the consent of the House at 18.20 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, February 12, 2019 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
