ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 26-11-2019 authorisation, the Minutes of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the European Union, of the Commission, of the European Union, of the Council, of the Commission, of the Commission, of the European Union, of the Council, of the Commission, of the European Commission, of the Council, of the European Parliament, of the Council, of the Council, of the Commission, of the Council, of the Council, ……]] I have the honour to inform the House of the current question report on Thursday 28 November 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 241/25-11-2019 of Mr Georgiou Karasmanis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "To come to Parliament the documents that Mr Arahovitis says have submitted to the European Commission for the restructuring of peach production." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Expand employment through the programmes of a mutual nature to protect the forest ecosystems of the country". 3. The 236/20-11-2019 topical question by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Security contributions from farmers". 4. The 260/26-11-2019 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Disasters due to heavy rain in municipalities of the Regional Unit of Halkidiki". 5. The 251/26-11-2019 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Completion of projects for the restoration of school buildings in the Municipality of Heidari". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 242/25-11-2019 was raised by MP Carditsa of New Democracy Mrs.Asina Skondras to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Serious malfunction due to the secondment of the services of the Greek Farmers of Thessaly". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 249/25-11-2019 was raised by MP Florina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theoristis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Appropriate measures to open a cross-border crossing of a Prespecies Lay". 3. The 238/21-11-2019 topical question by MP Larissa of the Change Movement Mr.Evangelias Liangolis to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: "Directly the need to remove asbestos materials from the Larissa Court". 4. The question by No. 261/26-11-2019 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr. Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "The workers in the programme of social work on forest protection". 5. The question raised by Mr Socrates Vardakis, Member of the Radical Left, Mr Socrates Vardakis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Aid for oil producers in return for their loss of production, due to the forest and sea water". 6. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "In the air, workers in the programme of public health for the protection of forest ecosystems in the country". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Syntakis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "The destruction of olive crops, the deterioration of the quality of olive oil during this year's olive-growing season and the tragic economic situation of the small and medium-sized producers of Crete". 8. The 264/26-11-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Why do you increase the insurance contributions of the majority of free professionals and farmers?". 9. The 227/18-11-2019 topical question by MP Laconia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'Prices of olive oil and edible olive oil'. 10. The Question No 219/18-11-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Direct support from the Ministry of Rural Development to the producers of Crete destroyed by storms, hails and tornadoes". 11. The 232/19-11-2019 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arseni to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Removal of Camp EB 301 and performance of camp 301 St. Silvers in the public." 12. The 230/18-11-2019 topical question by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Paul Pavlakis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Reimbursements to producers from extreme weather phenomena in Chania". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Question No 221/18-11-2019 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "What is the design for the extradition of the tens of thousands of applications for retirement pending?" 14. Observed. The 231/18-11-2019 topical question by MP Preveza of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Expansion of public programmes". 15. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis with reference to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘Is there finally a securitisation and sale of dues from the Centre for the Collection of Insurance Debts?’. I would ask that the current information sheet should be distributed so that Members can be aware of it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following announcements: The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Measure in civil and commercial matters - Further harmonisation of Greek legislation with the provisions of Directive 2008/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008’. The Ministers for Economic, Development and Investment, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food and State tabled a draft law on 26-11-2019: "Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow". The draft law shall be referred to the relevant Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Unique discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: "Delimination of the energy market, modernisation of PPC, privatisation of PPA and support for RES". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 26 February 2019 to discuss the draft law at a single sitting, in principle, of articles and amendments. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u4	Here you go, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. As I have informed you orally - I do not know whether I have been able to inform all my fellow Members - of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group will have a request for unconstitutionality for regulation of the bill and I would like to have contacted the Parliamentary Representatives and the Bureau for the order and procedure to be discussed. I have informed the Bureau. I am told by the Bureau that it can be presented orally. In any case, I would like to talk about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u6	He'll be submitted in a little while. Mr. Famelle, after you wrote her and brought her with the statutory signatures, we'll announce her.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u7	Is that what's going on orally?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u8	He wasn't filed. He'll bring her now. At first it says, but at first we are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u9	Tell us when.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u10	He'll be filed. They'll bring her now. You'll be distributed immediately. It's not a matter. For those who wish to sign up, the system will be opened immediately. Until the first two contributions, namely Mr Load and Mr Famelou, are finished, you can register as speakers electronically. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Loading, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, we have shown that we can exalt and modernise the large public company, PPC, which was devalued by the previous government, with, of course, our citizens as our first concern. Besides, public utilities exist primarily to offer them services. So no doubt, ladies and gentlemen of the Great Representation, you have turned the largest Greek company into "bombs" for the national economy, you are cut in the public interest. You dealt with the question of PPC in a way that did not serve both the interests of the country and the company itself. Who can forget, after all, that you as opposition in 2014 broke your clothes in order not to privatise PPC? As a government, however, you agreed to sell four lignite plants. I am tabling Amendment No 35 by the Governing Council for Economic Policy, which bears the signatures of the then Deputy Prime Minister of the Government Giannis Drasakis and four Ministers: Panos Skourletis, Euclidis Tsakalotos, George Huliarakis and George Stathakis. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Chartomas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] PPC therefore sells energy below costs to its competitors and they make a profit from their customers and from the sale of electricity. Today, of course, as a opposition, you disagree with the measures that strengthen PPC's own private-sector nature. On the same day, with the NOME decision, a second decision of the respective board was published, granting 17% of PPC's shareholders in the WID. I'm tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Chartomas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, however, the then Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr.Panos Skourletis, ridiculed the Greek people, saying that he was clearly opposed to the sale of 17% of PPC, but remained in the government at the same time. I therefore submit this interview for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philip Load, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Also, if you disagree on the privatisation of energy infrastructures, why have you promoted, as a government, the privatization of the TECA, at more than 50%? As the Spanish philosopher Jose Ortega of Gasset says: "Governing is not just a question of strong growth as stable positions". And you proved yourself inferior to the circumstances. I am addressing the speech of your Chief from the Step of Parliament, on 9-7-2014, to bring back what he said back to your memory at the time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philip Load, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] How hypocrisy, true, and how lack of stability your political behaviour hides! But you see, the chair's sweet and easy to do as shit. After all, as the chief of your resignation said, from this Step the other day, gentlemen of the Great Repression: "Some man is not what he says, but what he does." And you undo yourself. The situation we received in PPC therefore has the signature of the Tsipra government. At first he canceled the plan of the Samara government for "little" PPC, talking about national crime. The government of Tsipras, on the contrary, was directed by the model of "little" PPC to the model of "half" PPC, as it agreed to reduce the company's market share from 95% to 50% without any consideration. Then, of course, in order to meet Community market opening and reducing its share, it has moved inconsistently on the viability of the company and has left PPC seven hundred, seventy thousand customers in a four-year period. No development aid, no investment in RES. How persevering and targeting in the wrecked ideology of detention! All this leads to a conclusion, which is a one-way for the policy of the present and the future: the liberal model is more timely than ever and is proved to be superfluous by this bill. PPC is at the heart of the changes of the draft law, which provides for a broad package of measures to make it more competitive, of course renewing its human potential, but also by strengthening its revenues, as it will operate more flexiblely than its competitors in the private sector. In addition, this bill is further liberalised and the energy market, while strengthening the supervisory role of RAE. The framework is also set for effective but also efficient for all of the PCC's immunisation. Finally, the draft law takes the first mature measures for the policy of strengthening renewable energy sources. The aim of the changes initiated by the government is a green and liberalised market, on the basis of an agenda that serves all, workers and consumers, for the benefit of the Greek economy. Now we're going to the main PPC regulations. Firstly, flexible recruitment of undetermined staff is being introduced. In this way, those who will be engaged in PPC hereafter will have contracts similar to those in the private sector, without abolishing the guarantees of the public interest of the PPC. However, the AACC will have the final say and will maintain legality control, of course. The same arrangement will apply to PPC's subsidiaries. Secondly, the permanentity of directors and directors is abolished and three-year terms are introduced. They will be selected on the basis of a notice, which will be addressed both within the company and throughout the market. Thirdly, additional incentives are being introduced to attract executives from the market, as there is currently a leak to PPC’s competing companies. Fourthly, a plan is introduced for targeted voluntary exits, at the cost of PPC alone, but without any charge from the taxpayers and from the insurance funds. The aim is to reduce PPC's cost, with respect for the staff, which it offered for years to the company. Fifth, the company's middle-level management is being strengthened. Assistant Directors-General, at a rate of up to 20%, will also be recruited by board decisions from the market, but will be paid for by their colleagues in PPC. Sixth, the internal mobility of workers is facilitated, in addition, so that some workers can move from PPC to the PPC and to PPC RENEWABLES S.A.’. Seventh, PPC's personnel are able to move voluntarily to the services and bodies of the narrow and wider public sector. Furthermore, a flexible procurement framework, in line with the European Union's respective legislative provisions, is being introduced in order to circumvent time-consuming procedures, but also to ensure full transparency, under the control of the Audit Committee, which we have also strengthened. PPC's corporate governance is also strengthened, with the establishment of a Compensation and Recruitment Committee and the strengthening of the Audit Committee. Finally, the existing preferential framework for tariffs and the employees and pensioners of PPC is abolished. And the discount on their consumption charges will not exceed 30%. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen of the House, PPC is modernising itself to strengthen its human resources, reduce its operating costs and increase its revenue, as well as ensure its viability. Now we go to the other main pillars of the bill. The draft law therefore deals, in a rapid and effective way, with issues that are crucial for energy. It is a sector that is at the heart of our country's effort to return on a path not only sustainable but also environmentally friendly development, as the Prime Minister has repeatedly pointed out. The bill therefore introduces the following: Fast implementation of the new target model, target model, i.e., and the relevant sanctions are reserved for the relevant operators by RAE so that the country can go to the new energy model. The provisions of national law on integrity and transparency in the wholesale energy market, which includes arrangements in the model of financial markets, are harmonised. In this way, the framework for the Energy Market Management Committee is being introduced and the supervisory role of RAE is strengthened, of course, to ensure that everyone is complied with. The rapid adoption, therefore, of this new model of operation of the wholesale energy market will make PPC more competitive, for the benefit of final consumers, and will allow it to be synchronised with Europe's markets. The aim is sound and rapid liberalisation of the electricity market. Furthermore, a roadmap for the privatisation of PPA is introduced, which will achieve further liberalisation of the gas market. It promotes the effective corporate transformation of the IPCC in order to move forward with its entire privatization. The proposed arrangements set up two new companies, the Infrastructure PPA and the International Projects PPA, while the old company remains as a trading company. The development of the marketing and gas infrastructures will be strengthened and targeted and strengthened and their value-added. At the same time, the geostrategic field of international projects, with the PCC of International Works, remains under public control. In addition, a rapid increase in RES is introduced to the energy mix by means of targeted measures. The draft law allows for direct participation by power stations, without operating aid, and promotes the realisation of large investment projects and speeds up the authorisation procedure for the dismantling of a large number of investment proposals for hybrid plants on non-interconnected islands. So SYRIZA is talking about climate change and green policies, but in the years his policies have only been green. After all, two months after his defeat in the national elections of July 7, Alexis Tsipras admitted it: "We could have done much more and much faster in terms of the environment, for our policy, for protection, for climate change." I am therefore speaking here and here for the Members of the Major Representation. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philip Load, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In contrast, therefore, with SYRIZA, we are moving from words to practice by setting specific objectives and timetables. The Prime Minister has, moreover, announced the closure of all lignite power plants by 2028. The government's aim is to increase energy generation significantly from RES, with the aim of always participating in the energy mix reaching 2030 to 35%, from 31% that was. At this point I would like to make a point about the penetration of the RES into the Greek islands, with respect for the architectural landscape and the limited land area of the Greek islands. Strengthening the country's energy policy, by increasing the installed power from RES-operating power stations, is essential. However, the conditions for the construction of the production stations must be in line with the architecture of the local area, especially where all the stations are located in areas of traditional architecture, which must be protected for cultural, tourist and economic reasons. And in the national plan, and also in the amendment of the Special Spatial Plan for RES, which is being prepared, I hope that this will also be taken care of. Basic measures for electricity are also introduced, which are the future for transport, because of the very low cost and zero pollutants. In addition, arrangements are introduced for the energy upgrading of public buildings and the creation of a competitive process framework for energy efficiency measures. And finally, a few months' extension is given for the settlement of all the arbitrary until 30 June 2020, the day on which the electronic identity of buildings takes effect. In particular, buildings with very serious arbitrage will not be granted any further extension. For the remaining properties, the e-Identity is also operational. Therefore, for the transfer of a property it is a precondition for the whole settlement, but also for the extradition of an electronic identity. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek society has always been ready to accept areas and even the most shallow reforms. As long as they were promoted by politicians who believed in them and we believe in them. After all, our party and Constantine Mitsotakis, in front of the summer of 1993, passed a law abolishing the state monopoly of PPC in electricity production. I am also presenting the relevant speeches to our rapporteur at that time, but also to the Minister and to the then Prime Minister for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Philip Load, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And then again, the coalition was against all forms of privatisation, but with the years you have done so. So we cannot go to the 21st century with the ideology of both state-of-the-art and partyism. The conditions have now matured for effective and bold policies. Our government is not the voice of reason and progress. We are dealing with issues of importance, such as PPC's, with a sense of responsibility, with our main concern the interests of the citizen, but also of the country itself. We leave to you the interests of the guilds. We are moving forward with those areas and the reforms that will enable our country to change into a truly open, progressive and free society. For all these reasons, Mr President, we are also voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u12	On a point of order, Mr President. We had a request for unconstitutionality. When will it be discussed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u13	Mrs Ahtsoglou, it has already been given to reproduce many copies, get them by the rapporteurs and, as soon as the list of speakers is closed, it will be debated shortly after that. End the circle of rapporteurs. That's what we've said. So as soon as this list closes, we'll have an image and it'll start right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u14	After the rapporteur-general?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u15	The list of speakers has been a practice that has been followed for many years. As soon as the first two rapporteurs are finished. The rapporteur of the SYRZIA, Mr Famelos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, first in this Chamber, in the context of the debate on the Constitutional Review, New Democracy rejected SYRIZA's proposal to ensure access for all citizens to basic social goods, energy and water. He refused one of the main objectives of sustainable development, demonstrating the fraud of its environmental cloak. This refusal, however, also clearly proves its plan for energy. The government's plan for energy is not to modernise PPC, it is not even the promotion of renewable energy sources that Mr Hatzidakis claims for the sale of PPC. Unfortunately, it is a question of a failed and anachronistic home troika recipe, or of a classic right-wing bankruptcy recipe at the expense of the country and of the citizens. It is a recipe for the privatisation of energy companies, i.e. the sale of infrastructure, the creation of monopolies to the detriment of entrepreneurs and citizens, and, in general, it is an option against the public interest. And it is a conscious choice, a strategic plan by the New Democracy to sell out and devalue energy infrastructure at the expense of the social benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, for basic social goods, such as water and energy, it is clear in Europe that the basic objective and basic tool to ensure the quality of these goods and access to these goods is important and dominating the role of the state. There must be control, planning and intervention and, if possible, a public service regime for these goods. This is also evidenced by the high tendency to re-democratise and re-nationalise such infrastructure in Europe, which has been taking place since the last decade. Because privatization in Europe has resulted in very high charges, increased energy costs, degrading the services provided, conferring services to contractors, privatising jobs because we had contract workers, many problems in industrial relations, and, the main, delaying infrastructure, so Europe's delay in achieving both gasification and carbonisation and more general automation in electricity. It is not by chance that countries were heard by our colleagues in committees such as Austria, Cyprus, Denmark, Spain, Finland, France, which the energy networks have made popular. And, obviously, our European partners are neither symmetrical nor ideological, I suspect. You'll understand that, too. But your idealism is the idea that wants to sell out infrastructures as much as it is - ber - and strengthen a completely state-owned and non-productive and competitive capitalism, which is dangerous to the country. Because, unfortunately, and we have examples, you have followed the same choice in previous years and failed our country. Because you were the one who bankrupt Greece and it was our government who took the country out of the memorials and social and political bankruptcy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] With its refusal to accept citizens' access to energy, the New Democracy Government is drafted with the most delayed neoliberal policies, with the oldest and most extreme, if you like, neoliberal policies, and indeed leads us away from European regularity. It leads us on one hand to what the lenders asked us in 2012, so I want for no reason, i.e. without bankruptcy, that as a pressure, it takes us to 2012 and brings memo options from the back door. It is true that many times I have been thinking about it in the committees, that you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, should have here the troika, that you have had a bogeyman, which obliges you to make these tragic choices for the country. We now understand your loneliness. You feel alone because all of this is unjust, unconnected, unjust and at the expense of our country. And, to understand the ideological and political loneliness of the New Democracy, I will tell you that her rapporteur today dedicated 1/3 of his speech to opposition to SYRIZA. Hey, you're government, then! You don't understand that. You are still oppositioning, because you are not able to defend your own policy. You had nothing to say, because you're selling both gas and PPC and you're dealing with what SYRIZA did. We'll remind you, then, because we know that it hurts you. It hurts you very much that the plan for "little" PPC and hydroelectric plants of the country was abolished, despite the fact that you went bankrupt our country. It hurts you very much that the TEN and the electricity networks have not been sold to the public. It hurts you very much that the IPTO competition has been overturned and the majority in the public sector remains, because you also want to sell the high-voltage networks. It hurts you very much that we have ensured that gas remains the property of the public, that the institutions have accepted it within the energy reform. And now you go privatize it through the back door. It hurts you very much that the Greek Petroleum remains the property of the Greek State, which you want to privatize now for no reason, without debt, just to give your own big market players a hand in making secret opinions behind the people's backs. It even hurts you for the DESA. That we overthrowded a contest that the country would pay and, despite the fact that you committed us to the international competitive process and to the lenders, we did it again with the benefit of the country and ensuring strategic reserves. All this hurts you. But we did. And to tell you now, and what exactly is he trying to do this bill. What exactly is Mr Hatzidakis trying to do when he says he wants to get PPC out of the "public jugle" or from the strangles that we have heard from the President and CEO? Firstly, it wants to abolish the APRC, abolish dignity and transparency in recruitment, what is European regularity and creates, if you like, an important security climate for citizens that we have a rule of law. Secondly, it opens the door to the New Democracy ruffles. So the new kids should pass through your party offices to be appointed to PPC? It also returns to the party state of New Democracy and the PASOK, when he had hired eight thousand nine hundred workers without procedures of merit, only with rhetoric. That's what you want to do again. This party state wants you to settle, because the right one doesn't change. It's unfair to society right. And she's unfair to the youngsters, because she wants to bring down all the workers in low wages and make all the children of a lower God. At the same time, it abolishes for young people the collective agreement - this is even greater injustice - in a country which is struggling to advance, to claim development. And while you say that you have brought growth, you condemn the young children to be children of a lower God, the well-known 'Brutsi' regulations, which came last minute here as an amendment, so that they do not have any justification for dismissal for the young worker. We are creating two-speed workers, without a collective agreement, what the second Memorandum wanted to do, namely, for which we have tabled and applied for unconstitutionality. And while, since the first day that Mr Hadjidakis has been taking over, he is trying to terrorize the citizens that PPC is going to go bankrupt, that we are not going through it, to justify the ruthless increases he has made to households, the bill today creates a new generation of Golden Boys, without a ceiling for pay, for middle and senior executives and leads to the liquidation of all management positions. The attraction of executives from the market is a pretext. There is the possibility today that PPC will have general managers with open market competition and a percentage of managers will also come from the market. However, the reason why the New Democracy is doing this is to justify the highest wages on these executives, which are above the wages and the general secretaries and the Members of Parliament and the Ministers and do not have a 'root'. Other articles in the bill include issues such as the voluntary exit that exists, issues of public or intra-group transfers, without tabling any plans and organograms. There is no proposal for how PPC will be organised, nor for its objects, nor for its staff. They have no plan and they ask Parliament to adopt a plan that does not exist. What for? They don't care about the plan for PPC. They don't care about a plan for productive reconstruction. The plan is how they will make PPC more attractive for sale, for privatization. The Minister said so. It's the only plan they have. We're not expecting any other plan from you. Just with the same logic, in the clipboard, Mr Mitsotakis at the UN step announced a defoliation plan, which his ministers didn't even know on the day he was announcing it. In fact, they are now announcing that they will prepare the defoliation plan and announce the process of a fair transition for lignite-dependent areas, one year later, in 2020. And people will wait there, and the workers will be their future in life, what will be their future in the environment. Terrible design! And Mr Hatzidakis is trying to convince us that this is all done for our children, while this bill restricts the gasification processes of the country, does not help expand natural gas, increases the risk of energy poverty, creates expectations only for private plants with fossil fuels and thus creates an increase in prices for all consumers and entrepreneurs. You're making fun of the Greek people, Mr. Hatzidakis. You sell an environmental profile - and it is a deception element - to hide the essence of the plan for PPC. But you do not say anything about the "real elephant in the room", which we are obliged to reveal here today. You are not saying anything about the measures that the institutions have asked you to present in January 2020. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting for the Minutes the Reinforced Supervision Report of 20 November - just a week ago - where creditors remind the Government that they have not submitted a plan for disinvestment, for the issues of degreasing or for the issues of the energy perspective and are calling for 'therapy' for these country's deficits. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Famelos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I ask, Mr Hatzidakis: apart from the withdrawal of lignite plants, the privatisation of electricity networks and the TEN, will you proceed to other measures in January? Are you going to go back to PPC's "little" again? Are you thinking of selling hydroelectric power plants? Are you going to tell us all this so we can know what your plan is? Because it appears from the documents that you do not have a plan. You don't have what the country needs. Because your plan is the sale! We therefore want you to tell us whether you are preparing to do more of what you have done to private individuals, apart from what you have done, to increase the bills and to leave tens of thousands of consistent consumers from PPC, weakening PPC's real position in the country. And you do not make any effort to deal with this perspective, as you do no attempt to really solve the payroll issues, to resolve issues that have to do with the operation of PPC internally. You are concerned with how to abolish the collective agreement, creating a social automation on the issues, if you want, of the perpetuality - which is not there - or the issues of the discount - which is part of the collective agreement - to hide that for this PPC your executives are predicted to buy limos. And they've already started the market investigation for this. You're doing the same for the DEPA. You grant a natural monopoly with fixed income, without any investment risk, to the private. I would remind you that in March 2019 New Democracy voted against our own bill for the separation of the IPCC, saying that it does not share the need for separation. And he comes today and makes our own bill a photocopy, changing some of the points that concern only the interests of the workers and the public benefit. He's got the whole separation. Finally, I wonder: Do you or do you not share the necessity? Because you said the company was being devalued by the separation of gas. And, of course - another deception - as its own idea of segregation. Of course, it is interesting for you to remove, if I am not mistaken, 80l, for workers. In other words, from all the issue of segregation, the New Democracy has chosen to take out the article on work. And from here it seems to be how unscrupulous its attitude is, which all the representatives of operators have pointed out. You have succeeded in presenting a draft law on gas - this part - which everyone is losing: the country, because it is also about strategic stocks and supplies, but all the workers - and all the consumers, because this bill will increase costs for all consumers and entrepreneurs and households. And, be careful, you're turning us back to the second memorandum and the gas. What happened then? The country was committed to privatising all networks and the trading of natural gas. After a hard negotiation, the SYRIZA government managed to cancel the above plan. And we're proud, because we managed to cancel a privatisation plan in our country. We did the same in the other companies. With Law 4602, we've proved it's done anyway. Because you're also followers of that there's no alternative. So we are telling you that the law that we have passed has not only proved otherwise, but has given the public the right to have and veto in a number of strategic decisions, such as procurement, large transnational gas contracts. We have ensured, in other words, that there will be no energy supply problem. And the country's right to this law is removed. You took it off. At the same time, you are not responding to the way in which the networks are extended. Because, while you had a minimum guarantee in the consultation, now there is no provision in the bill how to ensure from the monopoly - the one private person who gets the company - that the network is extended to areas in need in our region. Thirty-five cities are waiting for gas from the TEDDA programme and you are calling into question the expansion of natural gas in the western districts, for example, in Athens, but also in the region of our country. With the sale of the percentage of government in infrastructure, the country's development programme is not guaranteed. You have the political courage - I will say - that the Undersecretaries come to the committee and say 'we will give it to a private person for five years and see'. Expansion of the natural gas network isn't gambling, it's not casinos, so we can see where the ball is sitting. You must also understand that you cannot involve marketing and the infrastructure market and say that many companies will go into infrastructure when you have a legislative provision that will only be one. You haven't read the bill you bring. It cannot be left to the investor either to extend the natural gas network or, obviously, to the country's climate neutrality. The gas expansion programme must be launched now and ensured. Of course, you must respond to us here at last on an issue that has caused many discussions in committees and is rather opaque and secret - I will say - to date appropriate. Why is the Alexandroupolis Liquefied Gas station, a heavy infrastructure project, a country's national gas portal of geopolitical importance, not entering the infrastructure, not entering international projects, but entering the ICC? It is an incomprehensible choice, which also disputes the country's geopolitical interests. Minister, I will say two - three things, because I do not know if I will be given the opportunity to make another speech on the articles. Mr President, is there a second speech on the articles?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u17	You can continue, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u18	Can I now? Thank you. I would like to say some information on articles that want attention, and I would also ask the rapporteur and the ministers to follow it up. In Article 12, which concerns the securitisation of claims, we have a serious concern, because the securitisation of PPC's claims goes to a private person and therefore the goodwill of the claims and disputes public functions, such as water supply. Because a collecting company that gets the debts of a water company will not consider the social interest and obviously the need for a household. Secondly, in Article 21 and in many amendments, we would like to say 'no' to windows which will now bring legalisation after the end of old contracts and old requests - I have told you personally - for the production of renewable energy sources. The condition we put is that contracts for the purchase of energy from renewable sources for the country cannot sell energy at prices higher than competitive procedures. This should be looked at in Article 21 - we put it as a term - but also in the amendments. We want the country - the social whole - to buy energy with the competitive processes we have made, which have brought the subsidy price down halfway and which is very important to the consumer. In Article 22 we have some open issues on hybrids, as well as on electromobility in Article 27. We see joint ministerial decisions. We do not see the substance of decisions and strategy. In Article 23, as far as biogas is concerned, we do not see any agricultural livestock and private units anywhere, but only waste. The agricultural livestock and biogas from livestock waste must be strengthened, because we will save an important part of the waste and fuel the cyclical economy. In Article 24 we have very serious objections to the cannibalisation of the agricultural land of high productivity. You are sincerely changing the rural landscape of Greece and insulting the primary production of the country. There will be no primary competitive production in the country with Article 24. With regard to Article 28, we agree with the energy companies for ELECTRA, but we do not understand why you forget the guaranteed funding from the European Investment Bank and the participation of the bodies of the general government. Only private companies in terms - if you want - of repayment and goodwill will they do energy-saving projects? Where is the ESRB, where is the European Investment Bank located? With regard to Article 40, we disagree with the fact that they are backward. We want the system to be forward, but in any case we want to ensure that the quarries are restored to Greece. By transferring the guarantees backwards we wonder whether this will happen. We need European regularity in the sector and, given that you are also referring to a new placement, we have every reason to worry. As far as the RES amendments are concerned, we have a very serious issue with Amendment 2. Ladies and gentlemen, the second article of the amendment abolishes and weakens the role of the Regulatory Authority for Energy and the Government opens the door to a new HELLAS - ENERGA scandal. It abolishes and will amend the ministerial decision - the guarantees - of the electricity providers, to relaunch - the same toys that have been made in previous years and you know that there have also been contributions from New Democracy to these cases. With Article 4 of the amendment you are abolishing the prioritization that existed and various energy projects and you are entrusting the Minister with them. Wrong! Without priorities, without strategy, bad legacy. But we have the certainty that you want to remove the priority that energy communities have for energy transformation and the social economy. Obviously, it is a very serious question of breaching principles that our society has accepted. With the articles on town planning and planning, we feel that we are only seeing photocopies of requests that have come to your office. The government cannot act as a supporter of demands from various ‘locals’. We are seeing requests which even the Scientific Service of the Parliament raises a question - for the second article, if I am not mistaken - about the ECHR. There are issues relating to services and possible delays in both arbitrary and hotel-related issues. Even for the article on Evros' huts, your hypocrisy is so great that you rejected our MEP's amendment that had entered the schedule, bringing something after all. To what end? You have removed - and let the New Democracy Members see this in the region - from within the responsibility of the management body, because Mr Hatzidakis is planning to abolish the NATURA 2000 network operators. This is what it is doing indirectly with this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, I close - and please, Mr President - by saying that the New Democracy Government is dangerous for our country. It creates social deception tools for the perpetuality - workers, penthouses, gas competitiveness, to succeed in returning the country rapidly to the 2012 Memorandum promises. Instead of taking advantage of the margins that we, together with society, have created after leaving the memoranda, so that there is sustainable growth, decent jobs, the upgrading of the energy market, competitiveness, new investments, you are selling the set-up, the network. You do not extend competition to trade, to services, to innovation, to cheap energy. Yours - seniors - development model is obsolete and failed. Unfortunately, it will have tragic results both for the economy, which is trying to get back to life and for society, which is not able to cope with any further deterioration in living conditions, because this bill will strengthen energy poverty. We will do everything we can to ensure the interest of the public and citizens, especially in the energy sector, which is inextricably linked to the access of citizens and businesses to energy. It is the interests of the country, it is the interests of the citizens, the suspension and the prevention of monopolistic privatisation of the natural gas networks, and we will do whatever is necessary to cancel, prevent and suspend privatisation, whenever the basic public good of the energy networks is allowed. Because what matters to us is the interest of the country and its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, eighteen students and apprentices and two educational attendants from the Elliniki-French School of "Zan D'Ark". The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty two students and apprentices and four educational sessions from the 1st Primary School of Alimos. The House welcomes you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that under Rule 100 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has tabled an objection of non-constitutionality in the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which we are debating today, and in particular in relation to Article 3, entitled 'Recruitment of permanent staff', the Members of the SYRIZA, Mrs Ahtsoglou and Mr Famelos. We said to end - if there is no objection - all the rapporteurs and immediately afterwards enter the debate. The reason is the special speaker from the Change Movement and please close the registration system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, the government briefly brought an energy bill for PPC without tabling before the operational plan for its course. It also brings an unspeakable and bizarre hairstick of the PPA, the two pieces of which are going to be privatization, without knowing the role of gas in the final plan of energy planning, without the ESRB being tabled, which, as we know, will be discussed tomorrow at the Ministerial Council. In the RES it is trying to deal with a number of fragmentary issues without giving a solution and a comprehensive response to the structural problems of the energy market. In short, the Government leads PPC and PPC to the unknown, without compass, while in the RES, especially with the last-minute amendment, it makes the Minister of Almighty Regulator and effectively neglects the independent authority, RAE. Let's look at the issues more thoroughly. And first for PPC. Minister, you and Mr Tassis have spoken to us about your five PPC policy priorities. So you told us that you started with the rescue of PPC, and now with this bill you are going to modernise it, and then the liberation, privatisation of the PPC will follow, and finally PPC will deal with the RES. But let us see, how you apply, what choices you have taken and what arrangements you have made, at least in terms of the three axes, the rescue, modernisation and liberation. You're proud that you rescued PPC, which was at risk of a poor evaluation by the sworn auditor in September. But you are not telling us, and you do not want us and the citizens to remember that this has been done with an increase in electricity tariffs, so that the well-paid are gone. Already PPC is close to the target set by the SYRIZA agreement, about 60% of the market share that SYRIZA was targeting. If you had made a commitment that you would not go ahead with increases. On the other hand, where there is a need for reductions you have done nothing so far. Minister, will you reduce the energy cost of industries? Only recently, yesterday, IOBE presented a study that showed between 10% and 40% more accurately compared to Europe's average. Will you reverse this picture or will you follow the SYRIZA footsteps, which the difference with Europe average for the second two months of 2019 has been over 50%, with Greece having the most accurate price in Europe, almost twice the cheapest price Sweden has? And because, Minister, you did not save PPC with electricity increases, you have brought an amendment by manipulating the entire energy market, trying to stimulate PPC's liquidity rather. And we do not understand why you did not put these arrangements in consultation and brought them after hearing the bodies. You obviously knew market reactions, which are very strong, as there is a risk that PPC’s debts will pass on to other market players. You want to save PPC by weakening RAE, which, as you know, is already weakened and now you are giving it the charismatic shot, removing it decisive responsibilities. At the same time, you are going to settle with a ministerial decision, which will of course be adopted in the future, the issue of priority for examining the requests for the licensing and the provision of connection between renewable energy projects. Minister, we're not giving a white check. Will you, then, make the wheelchair you in the RES on who will enter the system as a matter of priority? On what objective criteria? Or will the criteria be subjective and you want this right for you? There are already intense discussions on the market and there are many sounds. For us, Minister, energy communities play a role as a protagonist and not a party to the energy transition. Energy communities are a key tool in achieving the democratisation of energy. We are giving energy to the citizens and the democratisation of energy, that is to say the possibility of decentralised access to energy production and distribution, is one of the declared objectives of the energy transition, but it does not seem to be you personally agree. You also pride yourself that by this bill you are succeeding in modernising PPC and you understand modernisation rather as an attack on labour rights. Not only do you do it in PPC, but also in PPC. Everywhere. I call your assault options because, firstly, new workers will not be covered by the operational contracts and the staff regulation, which are your programme commitments for better paid jobs. So you are destroying the collective agreements and you want to do the same with the regulation, which, of course, wants to be updated and modernised, but not abolish it, as you are now legislating. You exaggerately squeeze the AAP, fearing to return to old times. So why, since you are so sensitive to guaranteeing the selection procedures, do you not put a member of the committee and a member of the AACC, as we have proposed? And a label for SYRIZA, cut off to bypass the SAAP. Unfortunately, the government of SYRIZA first bypassed the APA in the event of recruitment to companies of the DEPA group. Finally, you create not only workers, but also two-speed managers. There was not a single body to applaud these modernistic and anti-Semitic choices. You also say that you modernise PPC by reducing its operating costs by voluntary staffing programs. However, you do not give us any feasibility study, no elements, no budget, no roadmap of liberation. That is precisely what the European Commission asked you a week ago in the fourth memorial evaluation, giving you time to present them by January, after much harder formalities have been made. I ask you again, Minister, what operational and cost savings are you talking about? Where and how do you document this when a thousand two hundred workers retire in 2019 and another three thousand by the end of 2022? Four thousand employees are expected to have left PPC by 2022. Aren't you all too aspiring to persecute with destiny? But what's the cost? How will this happen without the company's business plan known? Are your choices actually burdening PPC, instead of reducing it? I'm sorry, but all this is neither reform nor modernisation. They're deregulations and lead to regression. They're opening the way backwards quickly. Generally we go back to times without consultation, without clarity, with no appointments of state to public bodies. And of course you want to build the image of the reformer. You also open the appetite to many, to apply the anti-patient model of PPC elsewhere. I already read that the Chinese 'STATE GRID' ask you to legislate on the new way of recruiting IPTO, otherwise they say that their investment can be made into a state of uncertainty. So I urge you here today, Minister, to give answers on this letter. Will you apply the PPC model to IPTO or to IPTO? Is there a question of the uncertainty of Chinese participation in IPTO? You're opening the Caesar's hold with these settings. Do not invoke and compare PPC with "Olympic" or OTE. The "Olympic" and OTE did not have any impoverishment to carry out, which had huge economic and social consequences. So I come to the third axis of your policy, deprivation. SYRIZA’s plan with the sale of PPC’s lignite subsidiaries to Meliti and Megalopolis failed. However, you keep them. You do not bring them back to PPC and put your own administrations in these companies. So in words, you criticise SYRIZA for his choices, but in practice you keep the exact same structure. Do you have anything else in the back of your mind and you don't tell us? Minister, we were the first to talk about the need for green and clean energy in Greece. Our clean energy now unites us all, but it also requires clean answers from you, which we are unfortunately still waiting for. Who are those who will practically gain from the violent disappearance of PPC's share of the base unit? What will happen in a case of a very large energy crisis? What are you planning to do with the "Ptolemais 5" unit? What funds and where are you going to channel to the lignite regions? You say that you want to adopt the German model of liberation, as is apparent from the Prime Minister's meetings with Chancellor Merkel. It is good to take the best practices of foreigners. Will you, however, also adopt the German calculations of compensation for the withdrawal of lignite plants? The German company RWE costs 1,2 billion euros per 1,000 MW the decommissioning of lignite plants and is already in negotiation with the German Government, claiming compensation from both the German State and the European Union. This costs are designed and managed by the decommissioning of the plants, demolition and restoration of the landscape and compensation for the early withdrawal of its plants. If the calculation of the ‘RWE’ is applied, the lignite potential that PPC will need to withdraw comes roughly from a cost of EUR 4 billion. Are there any of these resources? Where will they come from? Will you apply the German model to all or any card? We are therefore telling you that special attention needs to be paid to violent deprivation. Our position is the gradual and fair energy transition, which ensures an energy supply at affordable prices for consumers, achieving environmental commitments and addressing the social and economic impacts of the lignite regions, in order to maintain their energy character. Immediately, a comprehensive development plan is needed, with emphasis on Ptolemais, Kozani, Megalopolis, which is unfortunately referred to in a future year. In relation to the IPCC now, I will repeat that the haircut of the IPCC and the privatisation model you choose is both rough and irresponsible. We are not against privatization, but their way and method are economical and nationally inconsistent. It is precisely the opposite of what you say about economic and national interests. Economicly inconsistent is your choice, because the single PPP would have much more value and value than hairy and nationally inconsistent, both internally and internationally. In the internal market there are risks of non-expansion of the network throughout the country, and at international level there are risks of non-implementation of international projects of leading national importance, such as EASTMED and FSRU. Our position, the position of the Change Movement, has been and is clear, that the single PPA must be privatised, but on the basis of a structured plan serving the national energy development strategy and, of course, the country's geopolitical interests. The Change Movement was and is against the division of the company that is a lever for the development of the country's gas market. Natural gas must be extended throughout Greece in terms of geographical equality and equal access to citizens. This is why there should be binding operational development and investment plans by individuals. This division that you are bringing, nor is it provided for, nor is it imposed by any European regulatory framework. On the contrary, it is an originality and experimentation for the Greek market. Instead of following the previous successful model of the assignment of a percentage of the company's management to a private person, of course with the maintenance of a minority package, with substantial veto rights in the public, the government is moving towards full and uncontrolled privatisation, while uncontrolled and uncertain will also be the fate of the staff, of course, of the DEPA, both permanent and the contractor. I do not understand why such a disgrace to the human capital of the PCC, which is its worth. Minister, we propose and I will table specific arrangements for a period of three years after the break-up, that there should be no redundancies of the Group of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) for the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party (Christian Democrats). Finally, Minister, I invite you to accept the amendment we have tabled to the development bill to strengthen lignite from hydrocarbons extracts and to finance environmental masters and research into the new energy economy. If, of course, you refuse again, we want you to respond convincingly and explain the reasons for your refusal to the citizens of the lignite regions and the students - researchers in our country. [[At this point the Member, Georgios Arvanitidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are therefore voting against this bill and, as I have said, we are waiting for convincing answers to all the questions and concerns I have put to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u21	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, a special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u22	You present it to us as an incision you're doing in this bill, through five axes. However, what we can certainly say is that you are even more aggressively promoting the strategy of capital and the European Union for the liberalisation of the energy market, which all governments, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, have served since the early 1990s. And, of course, multiple winners came out of business groups active in energy, while victims of liberation and further privatization were workers in the sector, through wages and rights hits, intensification, take-off of accidents, but also of the people, with expensive invoices and energy poverty for working people's homes and a ruthless hunter of those unable to pay for "fire". So your five priorities concern, as you say, the rescue of PPC, the modernisation of the company, the liberation, the opening up of the market in renewable energy sources and the privatisation of PPA. Let's take the axes one - one, let's see how liberation policy strengthens capitalist gain only and shapes an expensive commodity. We're talking about the power of the people. Firstly, the rescue of PPC, the drama of the poor situation, which is the result of privatisation - liberation, to convince you of the anti-Salan tough package that you are preparing and called "reinforcing". You are presenting the reduced revenues of PPC and the high losses. We were told the same about every privatisation, about "Olympic", the port of Piraeus and so on. Let us make it clear: we do not support the state-owned capitalist business either, because it also operates on the basis of the interests of business groups and not of the people, such as PPC. You don't remember? He gave "PESINE" to suffer the honor of the kilowatt, but extremely expensive for the people's family. However, you have a methodology for all urban parties. When you are about to privatise a state-owned company you go bankrupt, relieve it of the "barry" of the employees, to buy it obediently by the capitalist businessman and gain even more. So who is responsible for PPC’s debts today? But your policy, all of you! It has high production costs. Why? Because it does not use domestic cheap raw materials, but imported, to win the business groups. They're the ones you're serving. At the same time, PPC sold energy dealers below the purchase price, i.e. with a loss of hundreds of millions of euros. And, of course, because PPC is being privatised, the previous government of SYRIZA handed over to the energy traders, more than seven hundred and seventy-five thousand consumers, "meters" tell them, "clients" - as if so - even well-paid. Really, what does an entrepreneur want to make sure that big profits are secure? Buy cheap, sell expensive and have customers well-paid. You made sure of it. You have made a partial contribution to all governments, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK for the bankruptcy of PPC - part - and now you are coming to criticise, fight and put issues of unconstitutionality in order to hide that you are promoting the liberalisation that the European Union promotes. These are your values. The capitalist gain at the expense of the people, and yours and the European Union. That is your overall policy. Now the New Democracy Government tells us that, in order to rescue PPC, it will do - I am talking about the second axis - modernisation of the operation. What does he include? Very specific measures against workers in the sector: scanning by abolishing the perpetuality of new workers, generalizing the disgusting working relationships - a tyre, already in existence with contractors, derogating even from the operational collective agreement. For older people there are voluntary redundancies, about four thousand employees, and public mobility, and you also have overturns even in terms of the collective contract, such as a shrinking in the power tariff for PPC workers and pensioners. It is your alibi to the savage attack on workers, over the overthrows of industrial relations and rights, precisely those which are the model and the other CECE to be followed, in order to be sold to the groups. The project, of course, is very played after the chronic depreciation of businesses, such as LARCO, NSAs, and so forth, from all the governments, who are courageously devoid of labour rights and targeting them. This is your development, the cracking of workers to secure profits in capital. Modernisation for us is the permanent and stable work with full rights and use of cheap domestic raw materials, which will reduce production costs and improve productivity, i.e. the use of hydroelectric and natural lignite fields by using new technology, which drastically reduces pollutants. But it is not the businessmen's interest, and that is why you are not promoting it. On the contrary, you are presenting us on the third axis with defoliation. We told you in committee too. It is a crime to deprive us of the productive wealth of our country, to rehabilitate our country from imported fuels and to the productive reconstruction of our country with cheap electricity that will satisfy the needs of the people. It is hypocritical and anti-developmental to incorporate defoliation within the framework of the so-called 'green energy', when the forests do not protect them, in the NATURA areas you are destroying them. When a businessman wants them to produce capitalist profits, then no protection exists in the environment. On the contrary, you are using terrorism, repression and law and order, as you have recently done to those who have been demonstrating their opposition to the installation of wind turbines in Agra, criminalising their struggle. However, for the profits of large businesses, the destruction of the natural environment will be caused in virgin forests and protected areas of particular natural beauty. In other words, we are talking about 'green' development. The truth is that this is a vehicle by the European Union to speed up the liberalisation of the energy sector from state protection, reduce its dependence on imported fuels and even promote Euro-Union know-how in terms of RES infrastructure, whether wind or photovoltaic. That's how overcompensated funds are out. And it is no coincidence at all that at the Merkel-Mitsotakis meeting, all that was announced as an agreement was an agreement on the RES, that is, the introduction of infrastructure from Germany. The result of this option, of course, is that not only will we produce cheap electricity, but on the contrary they have increased and electricity tariffs will be increased further, and this will be passed on to popular consumption. That is why, moreover, you are promoting, as a fourth axis, the opening up of the market in renewable energy sources in a provocative and disgusting way. We have not seen such few articles repeating the word 'exempted' by so many taxes and restrictions and controls in order to expand even further. You arrive at the point where you even grant the land of high productivity, which is for the production of food products. You change the use of land and turn it from high productivity agricultural to industrial value. In fact, you do not know that, in order to characterise an area of high productivity, investment has been made, such as irrigation or drainage or opening of roads etc.Huh? You claim you're only declaring the ones that are near the main roads. Again to strengthen and reduce costs in the business groups of RES, you are performing part of the rural land, that is, the primary sector. In fact, you are getting to the point in the ministerial amendment that you are giving the RES the right to use the assets that do not belong to it, but at the same time override and override the decisions of the forest offices. This is your 'green development'. We are not surprised that you are despising and abused even protected areas for the installation of only wind parks. To this extent, you must promote, with incentives and subsidies, the infrastructure of the RES and, in particular, the installation of wind parks, which disproportionately reduce their distribution to the various regions of the country, while destroying other economic activities of the people's population - farmers, small and medium-sized tourists - for the profits of a few big businessmen. We are clear: we are not against renewable energy sources. We are against the capitalist's profit-oriented distribution, which leads essentially to the destruction. Your fifth axis is to privatise the PPA at a time when, for the gas and pipeline sector, there are severe competitions between strong imperialist centres, such as the US, the European Union and Russia. But the government goes on to privatize it even more when gas, based on the plans of today's government and the previous one, is the transitional fuel. A imported fuel how safe and adequate is it to the system? It's a contradiction, even for your own urban data. So you are speeding up the privatisation of the PPA, which is carried out by splitting into three companies - the Infrastructure PPA, the IPCC and the IPCC of International Works, all anonymous companies - which are the first to be privatised - in SYRIZA - without fundamental care and protection for the already employed in the company. There is absolutely no reference in the bill for workers. And we're not talking about the contractive workers, who are at mercy, and we're talking about those who are undetermined for an indefinite period of time in the PPA. That is why we have tabled an amendment to protect the work of these workers and we call on all the wings to vote on it. How, however, will these private companies ensure the security of the system? There is no commitment here, at least for the transition. So you do not want and you cannot plan and ensure cheap current for the people's family, protection of public health and the environment and forest land, and upgrading the position of workers with rights and at the same time reducing the country's energy dependence. You cannot implement this or do it, because it runs counter to the capitalist gain you are pilgrimizing. Not even as long as the profit prevails capitalist you cannot use a mixture of all the indigenous lignite energy sources, hydrocarbons, wind energy, water potential and others to ensure popular prosperity. Such solutions arise only through social ownership in the means of production, with a central scientific design in the economy, i.e. the socialist way of production, with permanent and stable and full rights to workers, environmental and public health protection. This is how our country's energy dependence on imported fuels is treated, but also promotes research into and development of domestic sources in a country that has huge energy sources untapped, but also with transnationally beneficial cooperation. So there will be no energy poverty, but popular prosperity. We're fighting for a society like this. It's possible if the people decide. I conclude and welcome the struggles and mobilisations of the workers in PPC and PPC and call on the people to express their solidarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. The special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the current Greek Government is at least dangerous for the following reasons: Firstly, because it is problematic among many others, with the signing of the two energy contracts for the Aegean Sea at almost 1/10 of the value of the Ionian Sea's minimum investment, invoking the SYRIZA errors, which it considers to be legalising its own actions. In this regard, in today's bill creating a energy derivatives market, despite the fact that everyone knows that they have been bankrupt in California, the world's fifth largest economy, which even exceeds Great Britain. Second, because it follows with a miserable predicament the orders of the lenders just as they have reinstated SYRIZA. However, despite the damage caused to our economy by SYRIZA, it is certainly not the party that has exaggerated and bankrupt Greece. After the treason of 2015 and the betrayal of 2015, he decided to apply the Memorandums king's king, as evidenced by the excesses, hoping that the lenders, Germany, that is, will appreciate it, without seeking further impoverishment and the application of Greece at degrading prices, its economic occupation, i.e....... Finally, it turned out that Germany did not appreciate anything at all. Instead, she faces those who bend her head as her slaves, who must offer her even greater sacrifices. The current government is also a pretext for foreigners, judging by the current draft law on the cutting-up of the PPA for its sale, despite the fact that it is an energy company with a continuous upwards and very good prospects for the future, let alone if we really find gas stocks in our country. Well, be sure that he will sell everything out, both public and private, with the thousands of auctions to be launched by the left-wing banks from the beginning of the year. You can be sure, too, that despite selling our debts will not be reduced at all, making us debt slaves in the dilemma. Finally, the current government not only has no plan, but also no environmental sensitivity, judging again by the current bill, in which it wants to place renewable energy sources on the fertile and extremely important Greek agricultural land, which is the foundation of our primary sector. Here we have to note that, as far as renewable energy is concerned, they have absolutely no benefit for Greece, but above all for Germany, since we do not build any wind turbines or photovoltaics, while subsidizing these projects by means of the pollutants clause, with a clause that has made the large lignite reserves available by PPC almost uselessly, when other European Union countries, such as Poland and Bulgaria, pay at all. Continuing, the current Greek government that brings one of the imported bills behind the other through the urgent procedure, such as the one adopted by the memorials with their beginnings, so as not to even know what we sign, never answers our questions. Apparently, to avoid them. In this regard, the committees for the debate of today's bill did not reply: first of all, on what are the two companies that are harming PPC by buying electricity at below costs, and what it plans to do according to a recent article by its former Governor, Mr Athanasopoulos, who will be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, with regard to the reason that he has put Mr Bacacelo as President of the DEDN, who has absolutely nothing to do with the energy industry. Thirdly, if we are obliged to sell the two most valuable assets of PPC, the rest of IPTO and the DEDDIE, possibly in exchange for the abolition of NOMEs or for something else, reliving on SYRIZA, who sold part of IPTO and IPTO. SYRIZA, however, is not Greece and has just ruled for four and a half years, so it is not entitled for the government to legalise its actions continuously invoked by this party. Fourthly, if it will extend the abolition of the permanentity it promotes with today's bill for young people employed in PPC and the rest of the public. Fifthly, because it does not claim compensation which Greece has the right of the German automobile industry, for their so-called 'diselgate' fraud with pollutants, when we are not only the only country that has not done so, but also threatens us by the European Union with sanctions if we do not launch it. Even Germany itself has been compensated by its own automotive industries, only Greece has not been compensated. We shall vote against the bill in principle, in particular for the following articles. First, for Article 2, which concerns the market for derivatives. As we have already mentioned in the committees, the government is literally opening up the coast of Halos. Something similar happened in the United States and led to the ENRON scandal. We will testify about what happened two articles in the Minutes, if the government understands the crime it is going to commit. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the other hand, who's going to oversee it? The ENRON scandal has led to one of America's greatest bankruptcys. Here the Government has failed to prevent scandals in the small Greek Exchange, such as CRETA FARMS and FOLIE FOLIE. In addition, companies will be charged with extra costs as they will be forced to hire staff for derivatives. They will therefore carry the extra costs to consumers. Secondly, with regard to Article 3, which concerns PPC staff, among other things, the recruitment of a thousand five-and-a-half members outside PPC by a three-member committee. Who guarantees fairness, as long as he's out of the AACC? Will it be a persuasive team of employees who will depend on government change? The Staff Regulations and the operational collective agreement shall not apply. But how will it work in a business with 99% trade unionism? Won't it cause puncture? I mention the total cost of recruitment, the EUR 40 million annual or EUR 2,200 per person, if we divide the amount by 1,500. Of course there will be higher and smaller pay, since it is not horizontal. Thirdly, Article 4, which deals with fixed-term recruitment. They are rather eighty directors and directors, according to the articles in the media. With what wages, noting that pay has been released from development law? The total cost is EUR 3.8 million per year or EUR 4.000 per person per month if we divide it with the eighty people. But, of course, even here, pay is horizontal. Fourthly, on Article 5, which refers to the tripartite recruitment committee with a three-year term of office. Why is the committee's term really three years? Is it to be renewed before the elections? Who will be the three who will make it up and what criteria will they approve on their own? How will they be impartial and no pressures on routine recruitment? Fifthly, for Article 12, on the securitisation of claims allowing PPC's claims to be sold according to the banks in force. How many will be sold? What honor? For example, at 3% of their value, like consumer, without collateral? Why are no similar discounts offered to the debtors? The largest percentage, of course, concerns PPC and not the group, as it is natural. It totals EUR 3.2 billion, of which EUR 1,94 billion is over one year's delay, and is then considered to be 98% lost. What will the collectors gain, which will take over this process? Sixthly, on Article 16 with its violations concerning the transformation of the PCC. In this respect, the tactics of splitting and scrapping continue, which devaluates the companies that remain in the public sector until they are sold out. In the case of the OSE, the 'TRAINOSE' and the EBSY, which are merged, were sold to convert to an Italian monopoly with our own state grant of EUR 50 million annually, without improving their services, as we will testify in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In addition, it is unacceptable to exempt DEPA and the branches separating from the conversion costs, such as notarial, taxes, etc. This must not happen if it loses public revenue. They should be burdened by potential buyers, especially as the transfer to the GOI appears to be under way free of charge. The same happened with the real estate transfers of the State, which the Court of Auditors condemned in its 2017 report. SWEDEN is a foreign business. The conversion costs would be borne by the GOI and would be collected by the Treasury. Thus, the State loses participation and the costs of conversion. What's that logic? Why is FSRU Alexandroupolis, particularly, staying in the state and outside TEAD? Because there are American interests that they would not want to buy from someone else? This only shows what the GOEDD is, a foreign company, a company that is not Greek. Seventhly, Article 24 concerning the installation of photovoltaics on arable land. In general, we do not agree with the use of rural land for photovoltaics. In addition, it is problematic how it can be reduced to 1% of the land, as foreseen by the law. The photovoltaics in the fields are something that has injured Thessaic Cabo, while they have caused financial damage when the model was no longer profitable. What about the installed units? For example, the installation of ELPE in Sophades Carditsa, 9 MW, in a hundred acres of productive land, was unacceptable. Eighthly, Article 27 on electricity, which appears to be not at all aware of the technical potential and prospects. As far as paragraph 1 is concerned, we wonder who wrote the regulation on the intervention of so many operators. We actually have providers and agencies. Why does the transaction handler need to? Some kind of paying agency does exist anyway. Do you want him to be an expert on chargers, so you can charge the kilowatt now to cars? In relation to paragraph 4, we wonder why you exclude TEN from the installation of chargers. There was a decision already under way last year to install a thousand five hundred chargers and a hundred fifty on the islands, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Even if we accept that you are following the European Union's directives, the recent one, from 5-2019, allows it when no other market choices have been found. We also put it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To what is DEDEFOP or PPC different from ELPEs that have stations through EKOs? To the fact that the ELPEs will soon belong to Mr. Latsi entirely? They are barely a cheap and good choice. Now EKO stations also chargers. You should normally provide incentives for more chargers instead of excluding participations. Enforce the operation of chargers on national roads and motorways, as provided for in the New Democracy programme. To provide for chargers' facilities on permits for new apartments, as provided for in the New Democracy programme. To make a commitment to the Ottawas to set up for chargers, as is also provided for in the New Democracy programme, all this, of course, in the run-up to the election. Incentives could also be given for the purchase of chargers and their installation for multi-house and professional buildings. Finally, there should be some control over charges on the market. Already there are complaints about high charges or a high forward charge on the card. In conclusion, I would like to say that there are many other articles in the bill on which we have reservations, as we have already mentioned in the committees. The above, however, is more than unacceptable and you should withdraw them if you are interested in the good of Greece, cease to bend your head to the Germans! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and four educational sessions from the 3rd Gymnasium of Peristeri. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please come to Stepma, the special speaker, Mr. Kritonas Arsenis, from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an "actinography" of the government. It is "actinography", because it abolishes, like so many other bills, collective agreements, because it abolishes one of the last non-discrimination institutions in this country, a common European practice that we fought both in Greece to achieve. No, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It also introduces privatisation once again, regardless of whether it is in the interest of the Greek State, if the company is loss-making. This is privatization that is of benefit to a third country and the intermediate, which will be some family from the Greek oligarchy. And bring photographic provisions, like any other bill. Because the substance of the bill is PPC's privatisation, I would like to refer to PPC's history. How did we get this far? PPC was created in 1950 and in fact was the state-run of four hundred fifteen companies from all over the country. Three hundred and fifty-seven were private and the others were municipal. The reason why PPC became was precisely because the cost to the citizen, to the company, was enormous. Since they could not manage and develop the network these fragmented private enterprises. There were no economies of scale. History begins in 1996, but in fact in 2000 PPC becomes an anonymous company and enters the Athens Stock Exchange. It breaks into the production part of the high voltage and retail networks in practice, IPTO and DEDEE, and it starts and enters the "game" individuals, who are not other than those who control teams, channels, who are related to specific politicians. In 2010, the Hellenic Association of Independent Electricity Companies was established. Its members are: "ELPEDISON", "MYTILINEOS", "HORON 2 BIOTIA", "KORITH POWER", "ELELANDS PETRELAYA", "MOTOR OIL", that is to say the well-known and unexplained Bobolas, Latsis, Vardinoyannis, Mytilene and others. However, as private producers could not compete with PPC, what happened is that the Government of Karamanlis proceeded with gradual increases in tariffs. However, the large 'game' begins with the creation of the mechanism for recovering variable costs of third producers. As PPC says in its press release in 2013, “The Mechanism of Variable Cost Recovery ensures a protected economic environment for third producers and allows their compensation at higher prices than for those formed on the daily electricity market”. Apart from this, the Insurance Mechanism for Third Producers also operated. Especially for the Variable Cost Recovery Mechanism, what is impressive is that it ensured that individuals would cover all their costs plus 10%. Who wouldn't want to invest in something like this when he knows that whatever happens he's gonna win 10% of the day he comes in - day out? Finally, the NOMEs came under the third memorandum to force PPC to sell even cheaper. What is very impressive with NOMEs is that while they were theoretically used to increase the retail Greek market the percentage of private enterprises, what has finally been done is that they were used mainly to export these companies to such an extent that in 2017 RAE comes and imposes a term on NOMEs that at least 30% of the purchased quantity will be placed on the internal market. So, at the same time that much of the cheap electricity is exported, imports of electricity into Greece are increasing, without knowing what the impact on either the economy or prices is. Of course, NOMEs are now being abolished as no private person to whom you want to privatise PPC is going to subsidise other private individuals. However, PPC, that is, all of us consumers, have subsidised private producers to set up companies that now, having bankrupt with these practices PPC will buy PPC itself. I think that the solution to PPC's financial problems, which these are, would be to refer to the Competition Committee and the European Competition Committee, requesting the reimbursement of these subsidies to PPC. That's what we should do. With regard to the articles, the details of the draft law, as I have said, are overthrown by collective agreements - and there is indeed an issue of unconstitutionalism - in order to recruit every young worker outside collective agreements, in essence with a regime equivalent to fixed-term contracts and contractors, who are also not abolished. At the same time, anyone who is our friend and acquaintance, that is, the government, will be able to recruit with a different pay frame, free of charge, that goes beyond what has been defined by Law.4354/2015 for the EUR 1.631 a month. Already, the head of listed companies with the development law you brought in and employing more than three thousand employees could have a free pay, defined by the government. Now, however, this also passes on to all directors and deputy directors, who, in addition to them, can also have a limo and what they want, beyond what the ministerial decision of 2010, stipulates that state officials should have small cubic cars. In particular, the Prime Minister must have as a thousand six hundred cubic cubics and a cost of 20,000 euros and the President of the Republic as a thousand four hundred cubic cubics and a cost of up to 18 000 euros and so on. To be honest, we are waiting for a new amendment to you at the last moment on the abolition of collective agreements, as the Chinese state-owned network company, the 'STATE GRID', which owns 24% of IPTO, provided a letter to the government, with clean and strict formalities, to include IPTO, even at the last minute, in the complete deregulation of the recruitment regime. We are impressed by the securitisation of the outstanding accounts, as you follow the red loan model, which means that companies will be chasing the households, who, because of the economic crisis, could not pay their bills, while PPC will collect a small part of these debts, unable to meet its own needs. The profits, obviously, will go to the private. The Public Gas Company is split and the GOI sells 65% of its shares, i.e. full privatization, as the remaining 35% is currently owned by ELPEs. Photovoltaics are also entering the rural land, something we disagree with, as the high productivity rural land, which you say that 1% can be given to the photovoltaics, is too critical for adaptation, so that we have agricultural productivity in the face of polluting climate change, to have agricultural production. Introduce the derivatives market, with the distortions that we have internationally known to cause. We have funny fines for manipulating the energy market. The supplies to PPC and its subsidiaries will be outside public procurement. There is no word about a fair transition or where the necessary funding will be found. I guess that's what you're gonna tell us about after '24. However, I now come to the amendments that you have brought us and indeed, Mr Minister, they have surprised us, despite what we have seen so far. We would like your answers, personally, to yours. For "Astera" Vouliagmenos and while the competition has taken place, it has been sold on specific terms, you change the terms. Allow the establishment of divided property, horizontally and vertically. You change the terms. In other words, what happened with Mall and Mr Latsi is happening here again. As far as hotels are concerned, and in general, and beyond the hotels, you allow for the assignment of escorts to temporary accommodation buildings, to do these in underground hotel areas, accompanied by works at more than one ground level. That's shocking! Reinforce in practice the buildings - cakes throughout Greece, you are pressing to legalise everything that has been done in Mykonos. It's shocking. You dissolve the entire institutional framework, which will have an impact on the landscape, on tourism and on illegal activity. These are two provisions that I would really like your opinion, because if they do not characterize you, they will follow you along the way. We are obviously voting against the bill and most of its provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u27	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, and for the time you have taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the objection of unconstitutionalism. Are you ready or do you want to delay a little if there is unanimity?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u28	Let's get started in a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u29	So you agree that we should delay a little. I'll get to the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u30	How long should we be, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u31	Colleagues will hear it and come, I imagine. It's done this another time. But if you want the so-called and the opposite to begin, you will have no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u32	To speak two or three speakers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u33	Let us begin, Mr President, with two or three speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, there is a problem with that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u35	Please, Mr. Loverdo, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u36	We have shaped our programme on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. We waited, because we heard there was going to be an objection this morning, with the beginning of the morning, but the Rules also allow procedure, since we have a single debate on the principle and on the articles. Okay. But there must be an understanding between us too. At the same time, committees are in place, tomorrow the tax comes in, we have meetings of the parliamentary groups. Tell us an hour. So now you are telling us after six speakers. It can't be done. We'll leave, we won't make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u37	You want to say 12:30 at noon?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u38	Why don't we say now? 12:30 at noon we can't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u39	Shall we start now? So, then, we'll start with the name and copy it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u40	If we can put two speakers in and get started.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u41	Good, we don't have a problem. We'll start with the name. There are two signatories, I think Mrs. Ahchioglu will talk. Then the rival, Mr. Plearis, will be here in the meantime. And then we will enter the parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u42	I agree and understand what you are saying and I understand what you want. It is simply because we have three committees at the same time, at the moment, to notify at least the contributor, who is a member of a committee, to come to listen to Mrs Ahtsoglou, because it would not be right for her to answer without hearing her. Isn't that right? So if we can proceed with the process, two or three speakers will come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u43	Okay. They're listening, and they might come.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u44	Mr President, we do not have time like this. You'll do it without us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u46	One by one, please. We've heard you, Mr. Loverdos. Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, all right, I understand the various organisational problems that exist. But at some point the Bureau must understand - and I am not speaking personally to you - that Parliament cannot meet, at the same time run three committees, one of which is the Committee on the Environment, which has a fundamental role to play in today's bill. In other words, there has been an extensive mismanagement of time over the last few years, and I honestly do not understand why the Bureau is presenting all Members of Parliament in this lasting situation of inconsistency.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u48	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u49	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u50	Mr Janakopoulos, this issue has also been raised in the Conference of Presidents and will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u51	But it wasn't handled! And the question is you underestimate the bill, the minister, us? Who are you underestimating?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u52	I think we're ready to start right now. The rival has come from what I understand. But that is not the responsibility of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. It is the Bureau's responsibility for how it organises Parliament's work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u53	Listen, let's sort this out. This was the case at the Conference of Presidents and, from now on, the President of Parliament has taken initiatives so that they do not coincide, much more so that the committee which meets is involved in the bill. All right, it's perceptible, we'll move on now, and we'll have the opportunity for colleagues to come too. Mrs. Ahchioglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. We have tabled an objection to unconstitutionalism by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group to the bill we are discussing today, because Article 3(5) of the bill raises very serious concerns about its compatibility with the principles and rights of the Constitution. What does Article 3(5) say? Essentially it says that those employed in PPC from the date of the law vote will not be taken over by the current business collective labour contract, which is active and which lasts until 2021, and will therefore be subject to the very few of the law, i.e. they will have very different, unfavourable, and wages and all work, i.e. they will have an unfavourable definition of their licenses, allowances, etc. This provision of the bill, as I have said, conflicts with the basic principles and rights of the Constitution. It runs counter to the principle of equality and to trade union freedom and its emergence in collective autonomy. As regards the principle of equality, Article 4(1), it goes without saying that the legislature is bound by that principle not to create unjustified discrimination and not to create situations which produce unjustified and arbitrary inequalities. In particular, this principle in its expression of labour law means that there cannot be unjustified treatment, which is more unfavourable, and also arbitrary. With the bill here and the provision I mentioned, Article 3(5) becomes exactly what the Constitution prohibits, namely the legislature creates discrimination between workers, two speeds of workers, to say it more simply: those who have been hired before the law is passed and those who will be hired after the law is passed. So we have two gear workers. It creates a discrimination for the newly recruited and completely arbitrary, as this discrimination will depend only on the accidental event of when they were recruited, whether they were done before the law was passed or later. So the criterion for discrimination is completely arbitrary. It shall not in any way relate to the qualifications or work provided. This regulation and the more specific expression of the principle of equality which we have in Article 22(1) and which speaks of equal pay for equal work. Here, in essence, arbitrary discrimination against workers who are objectively in a similar situation is introduced under the draft law. In other words, we will have workers who will provide exactly the same work, precisely at the same level, with exactly the same standard and essentially the same qualifications and who will receive different wages, different wages, better the recruits before today's vote on the bill - I suppose - and worse the salaries from now on. However, this provision also goes against another constitutional right, which is equally strong and serious, concerning the trade union freedom and Article 23(1) of the Constitution. Trade union freedom means that the actions of the trade union organizations - workers and the means for doing so must be protected. When we say the means for this action, we mean collective bargaining and collective bargaining. The bill here comes in and intervenes, as I have said, in an applicable business collective labour agreement, and in fact comes the state legislator to define what will happen with this operational collective agreement. It says that this will not apply to a large number of workers, it will apply to others. In other words, the state legislator comes to choose for himself what will happen with the collective labour agreement. We have a clear violation of the right to collective autonomy. Because collective autonomy is nothing but the right of employers and workers to agree themselves - and here is the crucial point - by interventions by third parties and, above all, of state power, the conditions for their work. There is another point here, because Article 22(2) of the Constitution also says that collective autonomy has priority over state regulation. In other words, the legislator, when setting a minimum framework for the protection of work, must, after all, leave the terms of work to be regulated in collective labour agreements and must intervene only in subsidiary terms, i.e. when collective autonomy is not working. It is forbidden in any case, when we have a collective agreement active, to interfere with the legislator and to remove content from the collective labour agreement. This, in any case, is constitutionally unacceptable and is what this bill does exactly. I would like to prevent two issues, because they are extremely likely to be raised. First, the question of the public interest. It is very common that the political leadership should invoke the public interest in order to justify interventions and restrictions on rights of constitutional and principles. Because I think the insult of rights here is obvious. So I don't think anyone's going to question that there's this insult. It is the most likely to be projected in the public interest. But look. The public interest - and this is generally accepted by the constitutional theory - cannot be accepted as a general and vague reservation to all rights and to every principle of the constitution, as defined by the political leadership. If that were the case, constitutional rights and principles would not be in favour of regulatory powers, but would be in favour of serving political priorities. So under no circumstances can we consider that the public interest is a general and vague reservation to all rights and to all the principles of the Constitution. The second is that especially with regard to collective autonomy and trade union freedom, there is an even more special relationship with the public interest. Collective autonomy and collective agreements, precisely because they are the result of balancing conflicting interests of employers - workers, they find a balance point through the collective labour contract - it is considered to be a specific mechanism of public interest. In fact, the collective agreement is a mechanism for printing public, social interest. So - and one above - it is impossible to invoke the public interest to circumvent a collective labour agreement and a collective agreement. The third particular issue with regard to the public interest and collective trade union freedom is as follows. Where the legislator wanted the public interest to constitute a restriction or reservation on a right, he explicitly defined it, in particular, trade liberties. It says, for example, in Article 23(2) that there must be a restriction in order for public utilities to operate there. So where the editorial legislator wanted it, he had explicitly predicted it and extended it, in general, as a reservation on all rights, it is also constitutionally inappropriate. I would like to point out here that the Scientific Service of the Parliament in its audit of your bill, Minister, regarding its compatibility with the Constitution, sees that there is a problem of constitutionality in this article and in the violation of collective autonomy. It probably accepts that there is some form of public interest, but says that in any case the principle of proportionality is violated. So Parliament's Scientific Service is diagnosing a serious constitutional issue. To conclude by saying that I do not think I need to say about non-familiar labour law that not only does the members of the trade union organizations sign the collective agreement. A collective agreement is a substantive law. So he takes over everyone. It has direct regulatory effect and even takes over those who are not members of the trade union organisation, so those who will be recruited tomorrow. I say that, in addition, for those who do not know more specific aspects of labour law. So we have a clear intervention here in fundamental constitutional rights and principles, the principle of equality and collective autonomy. We have the same problem, precisely because your bill provides that these will also apply to labour regulations. So that's where we have a direct attack on collective autonomy. This is a flagrant anti-constitutional provision and the SYRIZA parliamentary group's view is that it must definitely be withdrawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u55	The debate is held on behalf of the New Democracy, Mr Ploris.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the objection made by my colleague on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group concerning any unconstitutionality based, above all, on the violation of the principle of equal treatment. In principle, the principle of equal treatment applies when we have workers who provide the same work. However, there has been a well-established case law of the Ice Bay, which has been starting since 1979 and there has been a timely case law. In her attempt to prevent us, she actually realises that there are exceptions from this principle. What are these exceptions? I am referring to Decision No 595/2006 of the Ice Bay: ‘Differences in the remuneration in question are, however, permitted on voluntary grounds when they are fair and reasonable, as justified by the contribution of a special and serious, objectively judged, on legislative grounds...’ as they are, ‘if they are imposed on grounds of general social or public interest’. It's a repetitive version of the Ice Bay in a series of decisions. Apart from that, however, the Marios Ice itself - we will also come to the issues if there is a public interest - it accepts a series of decisions of this kind. He accepts that there are differences in their payroll, when they are recruited at different times and under different circumstances. I read Decision 553/2004 of the Ice Bay, which is repeated again in a series of decisions, which reads: "Such an exception to an employee is justified", says the reasons, "... and when they were hired at different times, under other conditions, whose assistance differentiates the conditions under which the work of the favoured employee is provided". Right, then, impatiently, what does the Ice Bay case law want? It does not want to hurt the employee who exists, but if the circumstances have changed, and that is justified, there may be different conditions for those who undertake service. Let's go see what's going on. What condition is PPC in? PPC is in a situation where serious efforts are made to save itself as a business. Is it possible to discuss that this is not a matter of public and social interest? In the positions on how to save the business, there may be different approaches. In principle, however, can we say that the rescue of this company and the way it operates from now on is not a reason for public and social interest, as is required by the case law of the Ice Bay? In addition, what conditions have PPC been recruited in 1990, 1995 and 2000 and under what conditions are they now? Do you want to see the situation the country has been in all this time and whether the circumstances are the same? Obviously, it is not the circumstances that prevailed at that time with the conditions now prevailing. But is the company in the same situation? Can you compare recruitments that took place at a time when PPC had a monopoly on energy and, in fact, its main advantage was the lignite plants that existed, with the existing conditions, where PPC is now in a competitive framework, competes with other companies that exist and must operate in a context of purely private law? So what do we say now? There are, of course, reasons for public and social interest, and there is no question, in any case, that the conditions under which the recruitment took place are the same at the time, in the circumstances in which the recruitment is to take place from now on, there are insurance disputes with the regulation of labour legislation in place, and case law is consistent in this case - and we have referred to the specific decisions of the Ice Bay, which exist - and, more generally, the case law that, when business restructuring is carried out, such as that of 642/88, there may be such arrangements. So what is the essence now? That unconstitutionality is inconsistent with the established case-law of the Ice Bay, which exists and will not be supported. On the contrary, we are confronted and there is no reason to support it. If we go to the wider political picture, however, it is a shame that you are doing here today. Because, if this conversation is taking place today, it is because you have brought PPC into a state of dissolution and danger to the entire world that is there! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And it is your courage to bring PPC to the edge of the cliff, to risk and make efforts to restructure and save it, to come here and say about the people who will be hired. And, obviously, these people will be in the terms of labour legislation - as will their colleagues in the respective services that will exist in terms of wage rules - they will not be affected by their rights, and today's bill and regulations that we are bringing, we will ensure, on the one hand, that there are already workers who are already in existence and, on the other, that there are new workers under the supervision of the AACC, who will be recruited so that PPC can operate in a competitive environment and bring it back to the situation that you have received. Receive a healthy PPC and deliver a broken PPC. We, therefore, and the Minister, have this debt and I therefore call on you to vote against the objection of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u57	I shall now give the floor to the parliamentary representatives. Mr. Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u58	I shall speak last, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u59	To be a reversal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u60	Good. That's what's used to. It's done. Mrs Fotini Bakadima has the floor since Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. As MERA25, we agree with the objection of unconstitutionalism put forward by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group in relation to Article 3 of the bill, because, on the one hand, it violates the rule laid down by the Constitution, with Article 4, on the other hand, the equal treatment of workers, who, having concluded individual contracts, will have another employment status and, on the other hand, the freedom provided for by Article 23, as the newly recruited under individual agreements will neither be able to belong to their trade union body nor to enjoy any rights that have already been attained or which will be achieved by their trade unions in future. At the same time, this provision of the draft law contravenes Article 22 of the Constitution, which stipulates that the general terms of work should be supplemented by collective agreements. It effectively stifles the principle of equal pay for equal work by abolishing - among others - the pay ceiling for the company's major executives. Therefore, as I said before, we are in favour of the application submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u62	Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. We have another objection of unconstitutionalism today, which concerns the recruitment of PPC workers, because it will exclude them from collective agreements. Let's just talk about it just so people know what's going on. The existing PPC workers are therefore subject to collective agreements, the young people who will be recruited will not be subject to them. And up there, then, says SYRIZA that there is an issue of unconstitutionality. Of course, Article 22 of the Constitution - and my colleague Mr Ploris also mentioned it - clearly states that all workers, regardless of sex or other discrimination, have the right to equal pay for work of equal value. I would like to say here that the whole question of recruitment is a bit problematic. What will he say ‘under the supervision of the AACC’? It means making sure we do 'left'. They will either be done with an SAEP or we will make sure that they do 'the other way'. I mean, if I have a guy known in the tripartite, I'm going to set up one of my own. Clear things! That's right. There is no, under the supervision of the AACC. And if I combine in my mind and Article 8 of the bill, Mr Hatzidakis, which provides for the transfer of current public workers - so the space for the young people you want to bring - with a lesser wage, we can get them out whenever you want, so we can deliver a PPC to the next private buyer as we want it. More generally, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot legislate, taking the risk of opening up new judicial adventures. To appeal now to the Council of State, to impose both public and judicial burdens on workers - and not just - to see whether it is unconstitutional or not. We have repeatedly spoken - and we believe that the only voice of logic in this House is us - to establish a constitutional court. What's simpler than that? You're the one who's deaf. Constitutional court. Every time, in every bill that comes, can there be a question of constitutionality or not on various provisions to be voted on? Are we going to do this job? It's abusive. We are going to tell you this: We are not participating in this communication show, we are not taking part in performances - bad ones in fact - on the part of the New Democracy and SYRIZA to steal the impressions. The solution is one: constitutional court. So we won't be participating in today's paradox. Mr. Pilaris, I hear many times the acid speech of yours and Mr. Hatzidakis. And I've asked him on several occasions, me and Mr. Villardos and everyone here in the Greek Solution. Do you want us to agree on what you said SYRIZA went bankrupt - and sharpened the tone of your voice at that point - PPC? Let's agree. Come on, Mr. Hatzidakis, let's do a committee of inquiry, let's see what happened with PPC. Committee of Inquiry! You announced it beforehand. Do it at last!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u64	Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, conditions on the labour market violate any concept of labour law. They're even mocking this civil constitution. These conditions, which exist in the labour market, are not downhill. They are the pursuits of capitalists to shield their competitiveness and capitalist profitability. And that is exactly what the governments are trying to do. All the governments! This is precisely what leads to very cheap workers, to consumable workers, without structured labour, insurance and trade union rights. Especially in the energy sector - and this is today's debate - the European Union's market liberalisation policy has also been a catalyst for developments in the labour market. Today more than 30% of workers in the energy sector under public control - not private - are contractors, while a very large part of them are contractors. Really, is that what sectoral conventions apply to them? Does the principle of equal pay for equal work apply to these workers? No, and that's work of both the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Change Movement. That's exactly the way things are. In this respect, SYRIZA's interest is hypocritical today. Energy workers do not need to be made of unconstitutional media manipulations, but from solidarity and support in every way in their struggles. After all, the Constitution for the rights of workers and the people is rubber, and on the contrary it is steel, it is written in stone when it comes to the interests of the bourgeoisie and capitalists, and that is the essence of the matter. Of course, Article 3 is deeply rival and tramples all concepts of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Loverdos has the floor on the side of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, today, in my speech as a parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, I intended to start with a vivid criticism of what has been done with the appointments to hospital governors. It is beyond all logic, beyond any political placement and worthy cartoon. The cartoons of the newspaper "KATHMERINI" today are very typical of what they did with the appointments of hospitals. A week ago we objected to SYRIZA's age issue in sports federations, which is what age limit you must have - under which you must be - so that you can be president of a federation. They have appointed a commander of eighty years, contrary to their previous legislative intervention and are now coming to do what they have done, that is to say, unacceptable! I was going to start my speech with this. Secondly, I wanted to raise how PPC was formed in the hands of the previous government. I think a parliamentary representative highlights the important points. However, since colleagues from SYRIZA raise a question of the constitutionality of Article 3(5), I am obliged to speak legally. We are concerned, firstly, with any draft law, Mr President. Does our disagreement with a regulation have to be accompanied by an objection of unconstitutionality? We, as opposition, weigh them and weigh them, so that we can have a degree of credibility when we turn on legal arguments against the government's legislative initiatives. That is why we have listened very carefully today to the rapporteur for Officerial Response and we have carefully read the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament. One more thing to say is that something is negative, it is wrong and another is to say that it is unconstitutional. They're arguments of a different order. Now, in Article 3(5), is there a problem of constitutionality? I'm reading you Article 22(2) of the Constitution. "The general terms of employment are laid down by law - a law which we are called upon to vote on - supplemented by collective labour agreements concluded with free negotiations and if they fail to comply with the rules laid down by arbitration." I also read to you Article 25(1), which says in its latest series that restrictions on fundamental rights, individually, politically and socially, can be put under law, provided that they respect the principle of proportionality. What is the arrangement for which we need to assess whether it is contrary to the Constitution or not? Paragraph 5 of Article 3 states that contracts of indefinite duration drawn up in accordance with this Article shall be governed by the provisions of labour law - well - which regulate the relationship between employers and employees in the private sector and the provisions of the contract - be careful - by way of derogation from the operational collective agreement or the Staff Regulations of PPC, or from any other operational agreement, arrangement or practice. Below it mentions what issues, which are all the agenda for industrial relations. So we must now assess whether this regulation is in line with Article 22(2), which I read and Article 25(1), the last subparagraph which I mentioned. Do we have an assistant? Do all the Members here have an arrow here to consider this issue? We do. The Scientific Service of the Parliament, by mentioning the provisions I have written - not Mrs Ahtsoglou - on the provisions of Article 22 and Article 25(1), considers that we need to think as a Chamber, as a National Representation, that we need to consider. The weighting, Mr President, must look for any ground. We are looking back at the rapporteur's report. We can't find a run. The Minister and his colleagues must know that, in the case of the Council of State, the search for an adequate justification saves constitutionality, while the existence of an inadequate justification leads to decisions on unconstitutionality. I have lived as Minister when my legislations were assessed, which, apart from a special arrangement, all the others were decided to be constitutional, because we were looking after the recitals, so that the lawmaker would know what we are doing. In this regard, the invoicing of the public interest is very general because it does not specialize in that aspect of the public interest which is affected or protected. That is why, Mr President, the Change Movement and I personally, which expresses this objection, accept the arguments of unconstitutionalism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u68	Mr Janakopoulos has the floor on the part of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. To sum up, there are two main reasons for the unconstitutionality of Article 3(5) of the draft law, which stipulates that PPC's new entrants from the day of the law will then have different and worse treatment than workers who will be recruited until the date of entry into force of the bill. In other words, there is the first reason, that we are treated differently with an arbitrary criterion, and I will explain why the criterion is arbitrary. First of all, let us say that the principle of equal pay for equal work is a special expression of the principle of equality, and in that sense Article 22(1) must be approached - if I am not mistaken - in relation to Article 4 of the Constitution at all times. The rival has invoked the case law of the Ice Bay, according to which a different treatment of similar situations is permitted, but he has forgotten to tell us that this distinction must be relevant and not - as I said before - completely arbitrary. What do we got here? We have the following situation: A worker - as I said before - will be employed today in PPC, will be covered by the collective labour agreement, and if we assume that the bill is passed, a worker who will be hired tomorrow by the same company, who is in the same situation today and tomorrow, will not be covered by the contract of employment. It is precisely our argument that this is an arbitrary time criterion, which cannot in any way be justified. However, the rival has chosen to justify it and substantiate it by doing so to me the first day the New Democracy Government will do. He tried to despise, contaminate, defamate and undermine PPC. This choice is not relevant to the general strategy of the Government, which wants the undertaking to be undermined in order to be able to sell it as cheaply as possible to the operator with whom it will end in political and economic deal. This is the government's strategy from the first day of its term of office, and with this strategy it has chosen to justify the unconstitutionality of this provision, which leads to depreciation of PPC's new workforce. This is a real insult to both the company and the Greek people, as well as to the employees of the company who are currently mobilising against what you are doing in PPC. But he forgot something. It may have justified the violation of the principle of equality on the basis of this extensive odour and the extensive strategic undermining of the company, but it has forgotten to refer to the second reason we invoke for the unconstitutionality of this regulation. It concerns the violation of the principle of collective autonomy. What do we have here? We have the government unilaterally and in essence to amend or, more importantly, to abolish a collective labour agreement in a particular undertaking. This cannot in any way be justified, it cannot be substantiated. It challenges the principle of collective autonomy itself. I have to tell you that in the time of post-multiplatification it has become one more time. No one but the current government and the current Minister have dared to do so. Once again when the 2012 government, by the cabinet act, intervened to reduce the minimum wage by 24% and create this insult for young workers, the underpaid wage by reducing 32%. It was the only other time that the government has chosen and implemented unilateral intervention in a current collective agreement. You return us to the darkest times of the second memorial with your practices and choices. [[The President-in-Office takes over Mr KONSTANTINOS TASOULAS]] I want to close with two very brief comments. As far as the principle of proportionality is concerned, I do agree with the previous parliamentary representative of the Change Movement that a question of proportionality will indeed arise. But first we need to consider whether there is a direct violation of the principles and then we need to see whether the violation is proportionate. And our position is that it is obvious to violate the principles and it is not even a question of examining proportionality. But, in any case, this is a special matter. I'm hanging up. As far as contractors and contractors are concerned, what the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party said, namely that contractors and contractors are not covered by the collective operational contract, as they have a different employer typically and technically. This is already the case under Law 1876/1990, the then labour law. But here we must open a serious political debate on whether we should actually extend the protection of labour law to contractors and contractors and not move in the opposite direction, which is to equilibrium the workers downwards, to remove the protection afforded by the operational contract and those on the substance of it. In other words, we must go in the very opposite direction to the direction in which the New Democracy and the Minister responsible move, to protect more and not less workers from the operational contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u70	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Lebanese, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to begin by replying to Mr Loverdos that the New Democracy Government has proved itself in these four, four and a half months that it governs that it is trying to change the country quickly. Our work is here and everyone can judge. There was a bad choice in a hospital in tens, hundreds, good choices we've made all this time. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Calm down! But you did not comment, Mr Loverdo, that at the same time as this was the case, we set assessment criteria for the operation of hospitals. We have set the evaluation criteria as they are elsewhere in the state so that they can finally change their course. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Calm down! At the same time, reflexes were immediately and the change came. Mistakes are made by those who go. And when we go right, we expect our political opponents to tell us fair, fair. I appreciate - and this is my personal view - that this attempt to place politically equal waters between SYRIZA and us has not favoured your party and it is good not to support it. As regards, Mr President, the opposition to unconstitutionalism, we see that the SYRIZA party has now done so in common practice. It constantly raises issues of unconstitutionalism, it constantly puts roll-call votes even when its members are not here to support them, even when your Chief is not here to vote. We're here to do our job. But it is clear to the entire Greek people that the reason why you impose this party gymnastics on your executives is just one: you have no political argument and you have a very clear political strategy problem. But in this case there is also a contradiction. On the one hand you blame us for unconstitutionalism and the abolition of perpetuality, on the other, your own executives in the committee and on the public word tell them that this perpetuality has been lifted since 2012. The lack of arguments, the lack of strategy but, above all, the tragic governance of the place in recent years by you have brought you into discomfort and you cannot do your job properly. You can't sit on the stand of the counterpopulation creatively. We only tell you one thing: Customize. As Mr Ploris has developed, I think it is simple and understandable. He has called on the decisions of the Ice Bay. We'll send them to you. We understood the arguments of Mr Janakopoulos and the analysis of the world's legal system. However, I do not think they are essential to what is currently judged by Parliament. Admittedly, this objection of unconstitutionalism today was a little more organised and studied by you. That's what you deserve congratulations. You were a little more read this time. However, the decisions of the Ice Bay and at the same time the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament says in particular: "It is however possible to limit it by the legislator for the purpose of organising the institution effectively or for reasons of public interest, and its limitation must be the appropriate and necessary means of achieving the objective pursued." So it says the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which you have actually mentioned, but then you wanted to overthrow it, namely that when there is the main reason - and in this case, there is the main reason - in the public interest, then you have the right to intervene. The public interest, Mr. Janakopoulos, is clear here. It is that PPC's survival, the way you left it and made it, depends on what we will do to rescue her. You said nothing and you did not mention all this public debate about these over ten thousand employees in PPC, about 70% of the market share it holds, about the seven million links it has in the territory, about 900 million losses that you have caused, for NOMEs, and above all, for the 4 billion bank borrowings. It is not that we - and you have the nerve to say it - are trying to contaminate PPC. You guys, right now, can't give up on us after she's down. You just need to understand what happened in Greece over the years you have ruled, to understand where you left it. You're just the defendants right now and not the prosecutors. Take the decision and proceed differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u72	You left 5.5 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u73	Moving on, we can explain a little why this whole process is going on, so that you can come a little bit to the reality of 2019. Mr Ploris said so, and I am sure that it will be heard many times today in the Chamber. We are no longer in PPC's monopoly regime. They've changed everything, they've changed everything around you, only you've been clinging to the past. We adapt, we also try - apart from the other measures that we have taken to restructure PPC and for which your own company, which you hired, has come to an opinion on whether the work has been done properly so far by our Government - we want to move on with this work. You will not shake us either with your legalities or with your objections. I would like to mention that both in the Post Bank, in OTE, in OSE, in the OSCE, in the "Olympic" has been followed by a similar model. We can send them all to you so that you can read them and be a little closer to today's reality. In conclusion, I would like to drop some of the tones, because I understand that every time there is a political controversy within the House you are evading. I understand - and Mr President, allow me, this is a personal point of view, of course, a psychological analysis, and so I cannot prove it - that really the night of the elections that you lost and the people put you in the opposition, one of your deliveries thoughts, among other things, is that the burden of PPC will go away from you. This burden of PPC, which you created and which, if it fell into your head and the head of the Greek people, would create huge problems in our economy. For this redemption we came, just to revive this company, just like the Greek economy. We take this cost. We reject the objection of unconstitutionalism and move along the path that the Greek people have given us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u74	Before we go to the vote on unconstitutionalism, the reason will be taken by the Minister for Environment and Energy, Mr Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, listening to some of the speakers in the opposition, you have the impression that the government is a group of ministers, which has supposedly hobby to take action against the people and workers. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And in any case that we are discussing, they invent new examples. We, Mr Thomas and I, had no other job, all this summer, rather than come into the egg and take measures for this operation, which had come to nothing but five of the disaster, according to what the auditor's report, which you appointed, said. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Last spring - and I have repeatedly tabled the relevant passage of the report in the minutes of the House - the 'ERNST & YOUNG' said that on the basis of what the Panayotakis administration itself said, namely the administration of SYRIZA, PPC was in only five of the bankruptcy and said that "the business has a matter of sustainability". In fact, he added that 'we do not see how we can change our view within the next 12 months'. This was your love for PPC and PPC workers! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because PPC workers cannot exist without the operation! And we came in the summer and took emergency measures. We decided on the payment of the NGOs, which you had not paid, despite the great surpluses, for which you were slapping the services of general interest. We abolished NOME auctions, of which PPC lost 600 million for its competitors! And that was a gift from Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And, of course, we intervened in the invoices, in a way that is essentially neutral to consumers, which we are not the only ones saying, is also the 'STANDARD & POOR'S'. A few days ago, based on these measures and referring to the almost neutrality of consumer measures, the "STANDARD & POOR'S" came to upgrade PPC's creditworthiness, while the "ERNST & YOUNG" first came to the report of September 24th and said that PPC, due to the measures taken by this government, took its nose out of the water and had no problem of viability. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] As much as you yell, reality is here to avenge you. As Miteran once said, "the facts are stubborn", ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So the government is now coming and taking steps for PPC and is continuing with this bill today PPC's modernisation programme for two reasons. One reason why I mentioned you is that PPC is in a difficult position. And it is our duty, it is for everyone, to save PPC, to support the workers of this business, to support energy in the country, because PPC is an energy pillar, but also to support the national economy. Because, you know that very well, I say no secret, if PPC falls, the banks fall, the national economy falls. And we, of course, will not allow that! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The second reason why we are making these arrangements today, of course, and the abolition of the permanentity of the new entrants, for which we are proud and are with us, is the overwhelming majority of the Greek people... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...is because PPC is no longer what it was in the 1970s, when PPC staff regulations were adopted neither in the 1980s nor even in the 2000s. Today PPC is not a state monopoly. Today PPC is an open business to competition. And you may not be upset that you have received PPC with a 96% share and delivered it with 74% share, losing six hundred thousand customers with a stamp of SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We, of course, respect Community legislation and all the European Union's forecasts, want to see how PPC is modernised and how it will modernise the whole of the country's energy landscape. For this reason, because we know that there is competition, we are trying to set PPC up on its feet so that it can reduce its costs and stand up to competition. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we want the Minister of Energy not to be in the unpleasant position to come every three minutes and tell the Greek citizens: "Please, because PPC has high costs and because it has an anachronistic labour relations regime, come on, Greek taxpayers, and put your hand in the pocket." If you can tolerate it, we don't want it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is the political framework, to answer Mr Loverdos too, under which the arrangements for the specific modernisation of the PPC bill come. I could refer to Article 22(2) of the Constitution, I could refer to Article 25 on the principle of proportionality, Article 106 on the economic development of all the sectors of the national economy which are the responsibility of the government, namely not to let energy and PPC fall down, I could invoke other provisions that have been referred to earlier by other speakers. But I would like to go further to tell you - because you claim that there are two speeds and there is a relative violation of the Constitution - that you are forgetting something fundamental, that it is not a similar arrangement for similar things. We are not just talking here about those who will be hired, it is not from now on, it is not a matter of timing, it is another sort of process that is being introduced into PPC as a whole. So we have unparalleled arrangements for disparate things, because, from now on, PPC opens up a whole and horizontal other chapter, in order to stand up and stand up to competition and not to blame Greek consumers for having to think about them. You will tell me: 'These are your theories.' I have not one and two decisions here, but eight decisions of the Ice Bay, which I think are, in any case, to be taken into account. I have Decision 567/1986, Decision 642/1988, Decision 458/1993, Decision 393/1999, Decision 555/2001, Decision 543/2004, Decision 595/2006, Decision 421/2007. What do these decisions say? For example, I am going to stand by three examples. Decisions 595/2006 and 527/2004 say: ‘Differences in pay, when imposed by legislation, are permitted when imposed on grounds of general social or public interest’. What Mr Ploris and Mr Lebanese have said to you. Decisions 543/2004 and 1023/1989 say: 'Varifications are permitted between officials who have been recruited at different times and under other conditions'. Decision 642/1988 states: 'Discriminations may also be allowed when the need to reorganise the undertaking'. What do we need witnesses? I read you eight different decisions, at different times and under this Constitution, the Ice Bay, the supreme court of the country. Are we taking them into consideration or are we not taking them? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I won't stop here, though. I would also like to refer to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which has drafted a positive report on the bill in general, to make a comment on collective autonomy and trade union freedom, implying that we may not allow a separate collective agreement to be concluded to new recruits. Not at all. Nor can we, nor do we intend to do it. How could it have happened differently? We have explained this and I therefore want it to be quite clear. Separate and different collective agreement, which will not ensure permanentity, yes, may be signed. However, I would like to continue, ladies and gentlemen, because it is not one and two elements. As I was looking for yesterday when I learned that an objection of unconstitutionality is to be lodged, I found one after the other. We have a law in 2006 on OTE, which lays the foundations for such a regime as the one we are discussing today. And let's compare PPC with OTE and remember where PPC was a few years ago and where OTE was. We were all here and we all remember that at that time PPC was at a better fate than OTE. Today, however, OTE is going very well, while for PPC we need to have all these discussions. Because PPC fell victim to state and populism, that's why. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] There is a 2011 OSCE law. In the merger of the OSCE, which took place at that time, workers join the new company under different regimes. There is the OTE’s collective agreement of 2017 and 2018 that obviously allows for different regimes to be signed by workers. I want you to tell me who was then a government and who was a Minister of Labour in 2017 and 2018. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But there's something else that I left as a cake cherry for the end. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from what I have said to you - and I know how well you are dealing with me, so I suppose that you are already convinced, but if there is someone who may have a mistrust to me, I say again that I do not believe it - I have a document, which reads from outside: 'PES OF RENEWABLES S.A.', Innovation - Development - Environment', is the business logo, 'Professional Rules'. The Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of 24 July 2017, which was adopted and is a regulation of the company. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Please go to Article 24 for the contract notice. The SYRIZA government has established for PPC RENEWABLE what we are introducing today for the whole PPC. Shame on you. Shame on you. Shame on you! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] Ladies and gentlemen, what you said earlier about the objection of unconstitutionalism to go and say it, not elsewhere, to the General Assembly itself. Let Genoa - PPC tell you whether what I'm saying now about PPC Renewables is true or not. And then you will find out, because I'm the trade unionists of PPC, and I see them with my own eyes, that what you're complaining about all of PPC, you did it for PPC RENEW. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, I am closing. The thing is, I think, more than clean. I want all of us, because this is where we are accountable to our conscience and we are representatives of the nation, I want us to imagine if we are going home tonight and we have accepted the request for unconstitutionality and we have not voted for this bill - please think, because apart from parties there is our country - what the situation will be in PPC, what the situation will be in PPC's share of PPC, what the situation will be in the banks, what the situation in the national economy will be, what will be in the future. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We support this bill because we support a European, a modern Greece, which serves all the social classes and which obviously at the heart of its attention has the weakest and the workers, who cannot exist without healthy businesses. We therefore support PPC to support PPC's employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u77	Mrs. Ahchioglu, there's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u78	No, Mr President, I want to say the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u79	Let me... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] There's obviously no staff. Both staff cases don't work here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u80	But you didn't hear anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u81	All there is is that the debate under Rule 100(2) of the Rules of Procedure on the issue of constitutionality has been concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u82	You have to listen to the reason. You have to listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u83	No, I don't have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u84	What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u85	Under the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u86	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u87	Let's say that. I am encouraged by my colleagues to look at the Rules of Procedure. I am therefore looking at the Rules of Procedure, which says: 'The President may not give the floor if he considers that there is no personal matter.' That's what the Rules of Procedure say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u88	After the justification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u89	After that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u90	That is not the case in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u91	After that, the opposition to unconstitutionalism, please rise. [[Responding to the objection]] Obviously, the required number of MPs from the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House did not rise. The objection of unconstitutionality is therefore rejected. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We shall now proceed to the debate. The first speaker, Mr Dionysios Stamenitis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, I would like to speak on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Stamenitis has been called.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u94	I would like the floor, Mr President, to deal only with the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u97	It's not like that, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u98	Not even like you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u99	A request must be made, a request to submit to me and you will take it immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u100	Would you like a written request for the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u101	He needs a request.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u102	Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u103	Why are you doing this? You need to submit a request.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u104	Would you like a written request for the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u105	Not like this, otherwise. You know how.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u107	Do you want a written request to ask you how long will Members be speaking?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u108	The MPs will be speaking for seven minutes. Mr. Stamenitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u109	Respect, Mr. Famele, the fact that I've gone to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u110	Please, I'm not talking to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Stamenitis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u112	How many times are you going to violate the Rules of Procedure today?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u113	We are talking today about the bill of the Ministry of the Environment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u114	How much do you want to protect Mr. Hatzidakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u115	... under the heading "Security of energy market, modernisation of PPC, privatisation of PPC and support for RES"...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u116	Mr. President, tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Famelle, you will hear what I want to say, where you brought PPC and how much money you charged Greek taxpayers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u118	I'll tell you. You're breaking the Rules of Procedure and you're standing up. You're breaking him vertically!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u119	Will you call the guard to take me down because I'm standing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u120	All right, all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u121	I asked for the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u122	You can't. It's another process. We're moving on, Mr. Stamenitis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u123	Are you so afraid, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u124	You found it! I'm so scared!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u125	Well done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Stamenitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, today we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, entitled 'Liberation of the energy market, modernisation of PPC, privatisation of PPA and support for RES'. This is a draft law which is an important, but also a necessary, structural intervention in the whole of the energy market, as well as issues that concern society in general. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] In short, I mention that the bill regulates issues relating, firstly, to PPC, the company, which we all understand plays a key role in the country's development and reform efforts. Secondly, it regulates the issues of RES, which undoubtedly contribute a lot to the protection of the environment and at the same time positively affect the national economy, whether we are talking about large producers or small ones. It simplifies licensing, overcome bureaucratic obstacles and expands the use of renewable energy sources, thus exploiting the country's great comparative advantage in natural resources. Thirdly, the rapid adoption of the target model aims to achieve a functioning competitive energy market, which will be launched in the context of best international practices. Fourthly, the privatisation of the PPA puts in place a new healthy framework of competition for the benefit of the consumer market, whether they are businesses or households. Finally, it regulates issues relating to electricity, a sector where the government's aim is to fully harmonise ourselves with the new framework for transport at very low cost and zero pollutants. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor today, to place myself mainly on the subject of PPC. Much has been said in the past. We have heard various points of view, but with this draft law the current government is coming to put an end to a problem that has been circled and has been constantly returning to zero. With the manipulations of the previous government, the situation is almost derailed completely. As much as the anti-population colleagues want to present the white one today in the plenary debate, but also in the drafting of the bill in committees, the reality is given. Do the numbers reveal it? They show that PPC was one of the time bombs received by the Government of New Democracy and the new leadership of the Ministry of Environment and Energy. But let us quickly look at the operations in connection with the operations of the previous government. The SYRIZA government received the operation in 2014 with profits of EUR 90 million. He delivered it in 2019 with damages of 900 million. He received it at stock exchange, about EUR 1.9 billion in 2014. He delivered it in 2019 with 300 million. He received it in 2014 with a capitalisation of 2 billion, handed it over in 2019 to 300 million. After that, it's really a wonder. I wonder if those who are reacting today to this draft law, what exactly do they expect, when they propose not to change anything? Are they questioning the report by the Sworn Accountant, which had even been placed by PPC's previous management, which raised a real question of the company's viability? Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, you are also able to question yourself so that you do not recognise your mistakes and plunder. All right, you are embarrassed that the first results of the new government's initiatives are positive, but at some point, you know, you must put the interest of the country, of Greece, above your delusion and your selfishness. Ladies and gentlemen, within a short time the Courier's position has changed. The company’s share tripled recently, and "STANDARD & POOR'S" upgraded the company’s creditworthiness. The implementation of the headline plan of the Ministry has brought results. He dealt with liquidity issues and, above all, managed not to collapse the company. Can someone tell us if we didn't take these measures this summer what would happen? What impact would there be on the national economy, on banks, on PPC and on workers? A series of initiatives by the Ministry are the new pricing policy proposed by PPC, which had a neutral footprint at the end of the day, but also the ratification of the legislative acts, which related to services of general interest, with profits of more than 200 million euros, with the abolition of NOMEs, a truly incomprehensible choice of the previous government, which cost PPC 600 million. It does not bother us, Mr. of SYRIZA, that you abolished the law of "little" PPC. It is disturbing for the taxpayer that 600m euros has been damaged. I would remind you a little of what happened with PPC's 'little'. There was a separation of PPC's customers, electricity generation, and PPC would expect to collect around EUR 2 billion, which would use them to modernise and meet its needs. Finally, this model was not followed, we went to NOME and PPC entered 600 million in. And, of course, these government initiatives do not only stop in this regard. We also move on to issues relating to defoliation, a political choice which is part of the general aim of the environmental protection government. Really, what do you want? What are you doing in this area for the four years when you were government? We are also going on to privatise the DEDDIE, but also to the substantial dynamic support for renewable energy from PPC, which had only 3% on the market. A positive sign is also the initiatives to remove the perpetuality, to introduce incentives for market recruitment, the new and flexible way of recruitment, as well as the integrated plan for the voluntary exit of workers without any charge on the taxpayers and the insurance funds. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying that, by voting on this bill, we are making an act of a policy at the heart of the modernisation of PPC, which is transformed into a flexible operational and effective business, and this is clearly credited to the great effort of the Ministry's leadership, which has, at the very first time, set the goal not only of saving the company but also of its viability and its development for the good of Greece and the Greek economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u128	The next speaker is Mr George Papaliou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u130	Before Mr. Papaelou went to Stepma on a point of order. By the way, in order not to interrupt the speakers, I would like to make a warm request to this House. You know very well that seventy-three speakers have been registered. First request is to keep time, seven minutes. From there on, the meeting from what you understand will take a long time, will certainly intervene by the parliamentary representatives, the chairmen of the parliamentary groups. We'll see how we manage the time. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for two minutes. Please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u131	Of course, Mr President, I will only speak on a point of order. Mr President, I have already explained to the President of Parliament that I want to speak on a point of order. There has been an tension - I do not understand why - and a procedure from the Bureau almost coup d'état to close the debate. But I'm just going to talk about the process from now on. Mr President, we have a list of seventy-three speakers. It is a very important matter, and this is also evidenced by the Members' willingness to speak. I think and ask the Bureau officially to see the question of whether or not the procedure will be uniform. The speech will be limited to many Members, Mr President. I understand from the democratic point of view that you share this concern. I must point out that in these seventy-three Members are only thirty Members of the New Democracy. Mr. Hatzidakis, you do not share your anxiety with the Members of the New Democracy, do not want to defend you in abolishing the ASP...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u132	All right, Mr. Femmelle, on a point of order, now don't go any further. Please! Refer to your point of order...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u133	I'm the numbers. Thirty-seven SYRIZA Members have asked for the floor and we propose that the right to speak should not be restricted to any of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u134	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, because there have also been amendments from the Ministry, I understand possible and conceivable MEPs from what I am briefing them, they cannot all be closed in a process of five hours. We need for the right legal system and for the democratic function of this House to be in place all the time tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u136	We will take note of everything you have said, and we will reach the same agreement with the Bureau. He has already dealt with the subject of today's sitting and the Conference of Presidents yesterday when it comes to discussing this bill, because it was expected that a large number of Members who would like to speak and have the right of course. We will see it and then we will be told what decisions will be taken by the Bureau. Well, the next speaker is Mr. Papaliou George from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that the New Democracy, by taking over the country's governance, has launched a propaganda campaign of defamation and therefore PPC's desecration, which aims to dissolve and serve strong private interests towards PPC. In this context, the New Democracy Government also promotes the current draft law. This is sold out, sold out rather, public infrastructure, natural gas, electricity networks and the rest of the shrinked PPC becomes the servant of private individuals. Furthermore, with the recent inexorable and unfair increases in tariffs PPC has lost and lost much of its large, consistent customers who certainly choose alternative providers. Unfortunately, in a few years' time, if this policy continues PPC will be a small producer of energy and will produce a very small proportion of electricity. Of course, the current bill is presented by the New Democracy Government as a reformist - modernisationist. And, as a reform, it shows its energy policy, namely both the assignment, the sale of DEPA and, in particular, the gas networks, and the circumvention of workers' labour rights. But this undermines the public interest and social benefit. All this isn't random. They are part of the neoliberal policy of the New Democracy. Let us not forget that during the recent process of Revision of the Constitution, New Democracy refused to adopt and voted against SYRIZA's proposal to be added to Article 13 of the Constitution, in order to guarantee public control of the essential social goods of water and electricity and their distribution networks in order to be subject to public service status and to be subject to public control. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill a natural monopoly will be granted to individuals, since all the public's share of infrastructure, natural gas networks and marketing is given for sale. In this context, their publicity is being abolished, which was achieved by the SYRIZA Government. This offers a stable income to a private person without having to make investments or EUR 1. This creates a private monopoly on natural gas networks. In fact, the public does not hold the role of minority shareholder, even though energy security issues of the country are also affected and despite the fact that in many countries of Europe the state is moving towards a republicisation of public infrastructures of this kind. It's obvious why. The provision of the draft law, which introduces a condition for the investor's commitment to non-transfer of shares over a period of five years, cannot guarantee the avoidance of this development. Monopoly ownership and management of natural gas networks shall not ensure that they are extended to as many regions of the country as possible, in particular to the remote and most vulnerable regions of the region. It does not guarantee as many citizens and businesses as possible with gas as possible and costs households and businesses, so that energy poverty is extended. The SYRIZA Government had ensured the development of the networks, since the institutional framework it had adopted provided that the public would maintain the majority share of the PPA. In addition, the draft law, in particular Article 3, abolishes the collective labour agreement for new entrants in PPC. This is an anti-constitutional arrangement, since the constitutional principles of collective autonomy and equal pay for equal value of work are violated, as the speakers have said in their objection of unconstitutionality. Two-speed workers are therefore being created, since new entrants, who will be employed in PPC, will work on different terms of employment than already employed, remuneration, licences, the redundancies process. In addition, new recruitments will be carried out out out without any guarantee of transparency, parity and integrity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] There is no doubt about it, ladies and gentlemen, and regardless of the view that one might have about liberation, which is promoted for environmental reasons and also for strong business interests, that liberation is also an obligation of the country in the context of the European Union's energy policy. The energy mixture has been modified.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Papaliou, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u139	I shall conclude, Mr President. Other energy sources are prioritised in this context. However, this requires the design of a 'fair transition' in the post-lining period and the design of a different development model to address the results of the closure of lignite plants. The National Energy and Climate Plan has been drawn up and applied to the Government of SYRIZA. In the context of the defoliation, it provided for the closure of unit 3 of Megalopolis in 2025 and unit 4 in 2035. The sudden "death" of PPC Megalopolis lignite units, of the first 3 months of 2020 and of the 4th in 2023 announced by the Prime Minister himself, is a overwhelming blow for both PPC and Megalopolis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Papaliou, please complete. We all pointed out the need to keep time and you're the first to violate him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u141	I shall conclude, Mr President. Problems will arise in the existing energy balance and will have disastrous consequences for the Megalopolis and the wider region, which will become 'herber country', since, indeed, there is no time to prepare the post-lining period. It is necessary to prevent the sudden "death" and the continued operation of the lignite units of the Megalopolis PPC, as well as the serious consultation with the local society on a fair transition, that is, the preparation of the post-living period. This will prevent the sudden death of Megalopolis and the wider region. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, with this bill you are reintroducing'remembrance' programmes, which after the country's exit from the'memorandums', during the governance of SYRIZA, had been cancelled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u142	The speech is given by the Secretary General of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u143	On the occasion of today's debate in this House, I would also like to express our solidarity with the Albanian people who have been hard to experience since the great catastrophic earthquake, but also with the support of the difficult fight before him in order to stand on his feet. But it is great that thousands of people in our country, too, are suffering from catastrophic floods, too, in many areas. From Halkidiki to Rhodes and from Thassos to West Attica, Kineta, the disasters are great and the problems that have been created very seriously. Television images don't always reflect the whole reality. I would, for example, like to mention some of the serious problems that have arisen in the affected areas. For example, in Halkidiki dozens of homes remain covered with tons of mud. Roads have been destroyed, resulting in very serious road problems. Serious damage has suffered the water and power grid. Olympiad remains powerless and waterless, communications are problematic. In Thassos, disasters concern mainly infrastructure, as well as property, homes, tourist businesses in agricultural, livestock holdings. Part of the road and bridge of the village Potamia has been destroyed, but also an important part of the rural road construction. It has also destroyed part of the existing anti-milling pits. The same applies to part of the sewer and water supply network. Great are the disasters in olive trees, but also in fields, while the recording of the disasters in livestock and in stables has not yet been completed. In Rhodes, the fact that the island was declared in an emergency demonstrates the size of disasters, since the floods have actually affected the whole island with extensive damage to infrastructure, road network, bridges, houses and shops. In Kineta, there have been two hundred thirty houses, eighty professional spaces, and even the only medical office in the area. In fact, the majority of these were also affected by previous floods, without yet receiving compensation, and now the catastrophes are bigger. We know that, and the road network. All roads under the new highway to the beach have suffered total destruction and are closed. Overall, around forty streets they need work, immediate repair and opening. Everything I have described, the flooded houses, the damaged roads, the broken bridges, the serious damage to water and electricity networks is the result of the policy of all the governments so far, which, of course, does not have as a priority the people's needs, such as the protection of the lives of our people. Because in all these areas the anti-military works, the ravage settlement work, had to have been done many years ago. What is now urgent is that, in order to be able to get the affected families straight away, it is to proceed immediately with all urgent measures to redress damages, to record damages more quickly than in the past and to give the compensation to 100% of the damages. In all these regions, but also throughout Greece, anti-military works are now of an urgent nature. Now I come to today's bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that you are bringing PPC's rapid salvation is another "fraud" in the chain of liberalisation, the privatisation of energy, which is implemented over time by all governments. The people know who they have been and are the only winners in all these years, with billions of euros of profits, i.e. monopolistic groups in energy, and how the workers, the populaces throughout the country are lost. Your policy is moving in the same anti-grassroots direction: Further trading energy, creating even better conditions for the operation of the energy market, ensuring competitiveness for all investors in energy. What's the new lead? The promotion of the objective of green energy in the so-called'metalling' era. You say it now without a spin: until 2028 the abolition of lignite as fuel. You are actually planning the closure of lignite plants much earlier than your relevant declarations and there must be some truth here at last. What's the target? Why has the country's heavy industry been eaten with lignite? Promote green growth, with the aim of shaping new investment fields for the group's over-accumulated capital. You are promoting the European Union's strategy, which, on the pretext of protecting the environment, is trying to upgrade its position in the energy war. Throughout the world, from the United States to Germany and France, a large part of the capital supports this solution you want, the most famous "Green New Deal", the big investment project to replace the old infrastructure with new, green infrastructure. But new infrastructure costs and green infrastructure costs even more. The new, green infrastructure is translated into expensive electricity, meaning less heating, accurate new facilities. We remind you here that lignite generation costs five minutes per kilowatt, while renewable energy sources three to four times the minimum. Of course, the ratio changes artificially, with the green fees and the policy of trade in pollutants imposed by the European Union. We recall that only for the 660 MW Ptolemaida 5 station, which you sacrifice on the road of green development, we need to install about two thousand wind turbines of the eighty-mile wind turbulence, about those that exist in the group's plans and expect them to be licensed. Of course, green growth has been won and lost. Winners are investors in electricity generation and in new green technologies, which will see billions of profits. The workers in the sector, who are aware of the increase in the degree of exploitation, and the people's family, of course, who will pay high-priced electricity. Lost is that part of the capital that has invested in older technologies, where green solutions are destroying it. This is basically PPC, which has these infrastructures. And you have no particular issue of throwing 1,5 billion euros out of 'Ptolemais 5' alone. The people paid them, not the groups, which are constantly being strengthened again and again. Besides, you'll think of something to do with it. But somehow, workers throughout the world must be persuaded to put a deep hand in the pocket for these green technologies. You're bringing the climate change bogeyman. While the scientific community has not yet come to a conclusion on the range, evolution, effects of the phenomenon, you have literally done so here. While there is a dispute between the members of the European Union with a solid fuel stock and the Commission, a dispute between the groups within the United States of America, you say that your policy is internationally the modern one-way. You tell us that carbon dioxide emissions must be reduced to save the planet, that we must pay the current four and five times over, because we risk that Kozani and Megalopolis must become desert cities, live a new Mandudi. You tell us that it is progressive to lose thousands of jobs, to increase the energy poverty of our people, to increase electricity tariffs even more, to create problems with district heating. But this lie also has short feet. If you really wanted to reduce emissions over the past twenty years, you could achieve this with new, large hydroelectric plants, with large new lignite combustion plants, which replace the old ones and produce about half of the carbon dioxide. You don't, because investors want great profits, quick depreciation, lots of investments, so that they can make it easier for each other. You don't, because in the end capitalism, the system you serve, requires huge capital destruction to regain profits. What did you do instead? You have taxed the production of carbon dioxide at the infamous fees, which are even increased in the appropriate way, so that lignite plants are not taken out of the same place and the price of electricity in the wholesale market can be artificially increased so that renewable energy can appear as competitive. Really, who do you think you're making fun of? That is why the solution of the NOMEs, the new organisation of the electricity market, the auctions of lignite production, at a price below the cost of private groups and the requirement to reduce PPC's share in 50%, which you voted together with SYRIZA, which, as a government, has brought it, is no longer enough. The need for capitalism for new investments is even greater and you ask the people to accept even greater sacrifices. SYRIZA - who is now in the bars again, because you are now selling PPC out, while he is fatally innocent of crime - is ultimately the same policy, he promotes the same green policy as you. He was glad to talk about the need for additional two GW wind turbines, he said indirectly he did not want lignite production. Most importantly, however, with the current state of PPC, which is the most convenient shape for you to explain to the world how PPC, SYRIZA and New Democracy should be united. Energy auctions simply led to a huge transfer of capital from PPC, which now has debts, to private companies, which record huge profits. The debts in PPC exist simply because your policy, liberalisation policy, has increased both the cost of energy, which has condemned millions of workers in energy poverty and debts to PPC. Now you come and say PPC must become competitive. And what's your solution? Should investors stop selling the electricity cheaply and sell it expensively? Should it stop production with expensive imported fuel? Does it not accept the destruction of many billions of euros in the form of lignite stations? Should he stop paying the expensive green fees? No, of course not. The solution you propose is the well-known, tested solution of the cheap labour force. And what are you doing? Employers, who will replace permanent workers, and an ex-post reduction in the wages of workers by reducing the current rebate for retired workers as well. And so prove that the bourgeois state has no base, and that's why the PPC employees know that the voluntary today and the pensions you promise will remain promises. The draft law brings you new provocative support for so-called "renewable energy sources" and I call them "so-called", because you are trying to hide that even if we accept your own logic of the need to protect the environment, the two thousand 1 MW wind turbines - not just two and a half thousand for "Ptolemaide 5" - are translated into a real destruction of hundreds of thousands of acres at the tops of the mountains. In order to implement these plans, the urban state - before SYRIZA, now you - change the uses of land, property rights, conditions of interconnection in the network so that investors can ensure their enormous profits. The same is true of the changes you bring to natural gas. What's your goal? Sell the distribution networks so that competition can be opened next to him and sell the DEPA after you have been shredded. What's the result? New charges for consumers, huge guaranteed profits for natural gas investors. You're not original. Your policy on energy, the policy of liberation is the same and unchanging one as the policy supported by your SYRIZA opposition. He promises huge profits to investors and groups and huge sacrifices for our workers and our people. It's incomplete. He confirms that your system ate your bread. You're telling us about progress, your system and your market can bring something new, but it can't. The Groups' profits, which you are struggling to support, require the destruction of funds, the cheap labour force, the reduction of income, the wages of the worker, the impoverishment of the workers, the people. The liberalisation of energy and renewable sources did not bring the paradise of cheap, clean energy that you promised. They bring enormous profits for groups in energy, for European groups producing wind turbines, on energy poverty, low wages across the energy sector, our destroyed mountains. We claim, and this will prove from life itself, that even if you manage to proceed with this design, it will eventually be incomplete. Even the notorious "Green New Deal" will give the most - very few years of still existential breath before the overcompensation of capital appears again. The system has rotted. It can't be corrected. It doesn't change. The Groups' profits and their need to secure them choke society. The solution lies on the opposite side, on the radically different path of development of another authority, the social ownership of the concentrated means of production, which will be the purpose of production to meet the real needs of all workers. This framework can guarantee the fulfilment of all the needs of our people, the reduction of our country's energy dependence, stable jobs for the workers of the industry, and the encouragement of the balanced development of all regions of the country. We therefore call on both of this Step, the workers, the Greek people, to resist your plans for PPC and energy as a whole. To combat overall the policy of liberating further the privatization of PPC, PPC and energy as a whole. Fight for cheaper power for our people, with no longer clear that there is no setback, that today's struggle cannot be made with its flags yesterday, but that it must be done with the flags of tomorrow. In this direction we are going forward to organise the fight for the fair demands of the workers in this sector, such as the resistance to the privatisation of IPTO, DEDDIA and PPC, and to liberalisation policy, no sale - the delivery of mining and mineral wealth units in private groups, increases in wages and pensions, seven-hour, five-day, three-day, permanent fixed work for all, with permanent fixed-term personnel, measures to secure the workplace, cheap current for the people and no power cut in the working family.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and students and three educational sessions from the 3rd Gymnasium Peristeri (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Konstantinopoulos has the floor for seven minutes and the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr. Velopoulos will be given the floor. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about PPC, where there have been many projects, which have been spoken and confirmed about its rescue. Only one project was not carried out, the project of "small" PPC. But, Minister, should a PPC project not have a revised climate and energy plan, a national plan? Should we not have a plan for the post-German era, for those regions which we have used for many years, with the well-known results, which we are going to make? And, thirdly, is there credibility in what will be implemented? Because a few days ago the European Commission itself said - and we do not - that these measures are not enough. And here in all this process that we need to discuss and see, SYRIZA tells the New Democracy and vice versa who set the flowers up to get here. That's what we're talking about today. He said before his colleague SYRIZA: "But PPC lost its customers." Well, colleagues of SYRIZA, where were you in 2015, when you signed and voted on your own, that until 1-1-2020 PPC can not exceed 50% of the country's customers? Who voted? Now you're crying? I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Two. I have heard Members say again about the Golden Boys, which the New Democracy Government is continuing today. Let me ask the colleague of the New Democracy who said about Golden Boys. Now, listen up, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. ‘GENERAL MAJOR S.A.’ You have appointed and the New Democracy continues. How much wages per month have you been appointed - and you will probably continue, Mr. Hatzidakis, to tell us - your SYRIZA trade union representative? You want me to tell you? You appointed it on a salary of EUR 4.630 a month. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Mr. Femmelle, you'll know that. That's all you've given. But that's not good enough. How much more did the Board of Directors pay for each committee? They were paid 400 euros. In nine months, on SYRIZA, do you know how many committees were made? Nineteen committees, that is 8 000 more. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are the Golden Boys. These Golden Boys, Minister, will you continue with them? Because you put in new administrations. Ladies and gentlemen, you are wondering what happened in the past few years. Is something wrong? Was there a fair transition? Was there a plan for the lignite areas? None! In the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, it was Mr Famelos, Mr Hatzidakis here, in which we discussed the new chairman of the Green Fund, and we discussed how much money was spent in the last four and a half years for Megalopolis, in the presence of all the representatives, we were answered zero. But how do you make a fair transition to these areas, gentlemen of SYRIZA and gentlemen of the New Democracy, which you do not have a plan? What's your policy? Let's move on. You're talking about the workers and SYRIZA's crying about the workers. It was very important, Minister, that you do not thank them publicly for changing the contract to PPC RENEWABLES so that you can do it to everyone else. You shouldn't have told them "thank you", you should have sent them flowers. Because, of course, people didn't have time to do it. It's like the memorial. They went out to the squares because they wanted to come and implement the memorandum. And what now, he says? They changed PPC RENEWABLEs and the New Democracy comes and changes to the rest. Yes, colleagues from SYRIZA and New Democracy? Can I tell you something else? You know how many workers are currently working in PPC and contractors. Nineteen thousand work in PPC and twenty thousand in contractors. Response on 25 April 2018 to Mr. Theokontikos, MP of SYRIZA, by Mr. Stathakis. Now, is he fighting? What for? Is New Democracy very tough or didn't let you do everything, did you not find the time, did you not, did you, complete all this? We are now going to the next stage: a post-Malling era, Minister, what has happened, what has not happened: what post-minor era, Minister? I ask you directly: Televignette heating in Megalopolis has something to do with 3 and 4 units. If they close, how are we going to get a district heating? For the areas of Kozani, Megalopolis, we need at least 300 million. It was, colleagues of SYRIZA, 25 February 2016, when together with the energy municipalities, that we submitted a document to obtain a compensatory benefit from the auctioning of unsold greenhouse gas emission allowances - I will also present it - you have not accepted it. So, Minister, first of all, there is no plan and, secondly, we do not have a plan for energy and climate or a plan for the post-living era. Before the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative said something about the governors in Mr. Loverdos. Look, you need to evaluate in the 1996 season, when the people selected at that time by the PASOK government, according to their curriculum vitae, are today the largest managers in private hospitals. And above all, you need to assess it, because many of these managers in private hospitals have gone to other parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u146	The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u147	I thought I'd applaud Mr. Constantinople because he's on his own. PASOK is far away.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u148	The PASOK is everywhere, Mr. Velopoulou!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u149	But it's not. I'm afraid so. You did good anyway. You know, I didn't understand: you had such good managers that Greece went bankrupt! Get them to your companies! Believe me, they'll do a good job there. Anyway. Let's go a little seriously, Mr. President. I guess we don't know what PPC means. PPC is the largest business in the country, with seven million customers, Minister. Tell me another company in Greece that has seven million customers. And because I am a businessman, I know what 'client' means. It has seven million customers, who are neither batterers nor crooks. Many of them do not pay PPC, because with our own policies you have bankrupt the country, brought the memorials, the country has been over loaned, the people have been over loaned, wages have therefore come down and wages are not able to respond. And that's not all, Minister. You've got a bunch of nonsense, crap and you've done PPC decades of collecting mechanism now: municipal fees, EFKA, VAT, whatever you want. So if PPC really had only the electricity in its invoices, it would never go bankrupt. That's for granted. Don't make fun of the world. So the wrong policies and choices of the New Democracy, PASOK, followed by SYRIZA with NOMEs, led to the lip of the cliff and destruction of PPC. That's a reality. What other advantages does PPC have? Access to every household, Minister, every Greek. That means it had to be a citizen-friendly company. But you have all made it through the wrong policies that the citizen hates it. Huge infrastructure and facilities. Another company in Greece has no such infrastructure. Stocks of lignite: Now, when I said 'lignite', Minister, I would like to ask you the following question: why is Poland and Germany using lignite and you still fear lignite and want to sell it? Since Poland and Germany are using it, what are you afraid of? Are you too green as a government, so are you the climate discharge? Will Greece save climate change from the world? Poland, which has a heavyer industry and Germany, which has heavy industry, use lignite. Why does it have to save and we don't have lignite? But it's huge of lignite. Huge! And a country that has not - I repeat - its own energy from your own fault - and the PASOK and the New Democracy - because for seventy years you have told us that there are no oil and natural gas in Greece, comes the only fuel that it has as energy, motor power, to sell it out. So that's what I'm saying as an introduction. What should the government care about, Minister, you personally? To cover PPC's debts. That's what you should care about. How it's gonna be, how it's going to be. The "tooth hurts, I cut head" tells me nothing. Ensure cheap electricity to the consumer so he can pay. So if you were to tell me that before PPC sinks, I remove all the rest through the invoice and leave the electricity alone and the Greeks can't afford to talk about it, but what are you doing? Instead of doing a rational policy, by removing VAT, EMPKA - what all of this is said - from within, to keep the invoice to see what the citizens owe PPC and to pay it to avoid losing the engine of the economy - why the energy, for those who do not know, is the steam engine of an economy, is the engine of industry, of processing, and even of the rural economy - what are we doing? We are coming to the point today to discuss the sale of PPC. You talk about selling her out, how you will sell her out more easily. And I'll prove it with the articles one by one. Sixty-six thousand -- says -- the strategic bad payers. I accept that, Minister. Why don't you take off the list and see how many angels there are? Take off the list! Did the Angelopoulos owe millions, yes or no? Take out the other list and see who they are. Arrest sixty-six thousand. Who are these poor payers? Why don't you take off the list to see who they are? Can I talk to you? Because among them, 70 to 80 million owes your state. They owe your municipalities and ministries. Here's the answer, Minister, that you gave if I'm not mistaken. Some 70 million are being owed by state bodies, without looking at the rest in municipalities, etc. Seventy million! I'm filing them for the Minutes, so you can see them. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So pay for it first, you Batteries, PPC, and then straighten it up. You're not a personal battling officer. The state as a concept, not abstract. Governments, however, existed. So the problem goes further, the knot comes to the comb and you take it - as you have done with the 'Olympic' - for the resolution. If the resolution, Minister, is the same as in the 'Olympian', I fear it is demolition. You're gonna tell me, we couldn't do anything else. I get it, 'cause they were gathered there by employees and employees. But what did we win? Monopoly on Greek airlines by an airline. Okay. We didn't want a state monopoly, we have a private monopoly. And, of course, we have the most expensive tickets, Mr. Hatzidakis. I travel abroad, to go from Germany to France I pay 150 euros, while to go from Thessaloniki to Athens I pay 270 euros. That's what I'm telling you, so you know, it's not panacea the privatizations. In other words, it is not the pretext that the sacred cow of the economy is privatization. Let's go to the rest of the articles. Article 2: Purchase of derivatives. Why Greece? May I remind you what had happened in America with the ENRON scandal? What do you want us to do? Think about what you're going to do with the derivatives. Yeah, well, the derivative is doing it internationally, but it takes special attention to this story, so it's not a bubble that's going to blow. Because if he shuts up, Minister, we'll have bigger problems than you're going to solve. California's been bankrupt from this story. You know that? Aluminium foil (whether or not Do you know that? Check it out. With derivatives, California went bankrupt. Am I wrong, Mr. Villardo? Let's get a little serious in here. The derivatives are not the solution. It also has implications for such a solution. Article 4: Recruitment. Well, for the Golden Boys I won't say anything. This is eighty-sixteen years old. Poor Trikala, you put him in the glue, and you took his head off the next day. I mean the commander in hospitals. You know. And I love you, and you've made many friends, and you're doing well. That's how you governments are doing here, which you think the state is a party. If we don't weep - because you're liberal - the state from the party, believe me you'll be anti-democratic in theory, but statist in fact. That's what you're doing. Thousands of New Democracy's wrongdoing officers who put a plug on the Minister, call the Prime Minister, take Dimitriadis, Nicolaides, anyone. What are these things? What is this, my Minister? These are incredible things from a government that actually has a Prime Minister in the theory of reform. In the matter, however, you are old - family as the previous ones. We used to have Karanika. Now we'll have Mr. Father from the Trikala. Karanika - Father. I'm not saying he doesn't have a degree. Karanikas didn't have a degree. Anyway, you know what they say about Caesar's wife. And that's what it looks like. You don't seem either, though. Here's the problem. But you're not telling us what wages they're getting exactly, eighty lads from Livadia! It's the Golden Boys. What wages will they get? Have you told us? Do we know what wages these gentlemen get? Nobody knows anything. Oh, they are eighty Golden Boys, and the Minister will decide - I imagine also a competent committee, which the Minister will appoint and make - what money they will get. It's not your money, Minister, it's not mine. The Greek people are the money and those who pay tax. Article 6 refers to the voluntary exit. That's for another reason. You take them out of public policy, so you can minimize the wage costs, sell it to the privateer more easily. It's a logic. Let's go down. Recruitment of young people, movements of old people. This is actually a picture that you're legislating for the private, Minister. So, you're trying to take the burdens off the company, lighten it up - wage costs, etc. - so that you can resold it to the retailer later cheaper, so that it does not cost wages. I understand it as businessman that when I want to buy a business, I want it to be non-waged. Yes, but there are social responsibilities. The man will go to unemployment or he will barely retire. So these are problems that also create social implications, which we do not understand many times, because we sit in an office and decide on others. It's not like that. You're saying that the old people will be transferred to other agencies in accordance with Article 8. The new ones - Article 3 - you gave them a gift to the new owner. I don't get it. The old ones you're going to carry? Where are they going? You tell me. So, a guy who's an airborne, he's going to the Ministry, for example, public order to make the officer? The Minister laughs - it makes sense - but you're not telling us. Do it, but how, where, what, why? Questions are unanswered. You know, reading it, I have a difficulty in understanding the reasoning. Because when I move from my business people, I know I'll take the clerk who's in the account to a similar job, I won't make him a clerk carry the keys. In relation to Article 12 and the securitisation of claims, here I will say that it is a mania that the New Democracy has, to give it all - which is about PPC - and to favour foreign companies. Why don't you do it like the funds? You're even being titrated to the banks. Go and get the fund with 2% a debt, while it can be taken by the person who has taken the loan. You can do it here, too. But you don't. You do not do basic things to show that this government has a social sensitivity, differentiated from the others. Because the others didn't legislate. They were passing fast track what they found, because they had an inconsistency and it seemed. But what are you telling us? Anybody who can't pay for the electricity he consumes will lose his home? Is that what you're telling us? Because that's what the law says. Why not disconnect accounts from ERT, fees, etc.Huh? Why don't you do that? I remember what Mercury had done. Go to the Deposit and Loan Fund and leave only the ERT. We've been smiling, but since then it's been this wound, and PPC has reached the collapse, the wound to put debts not related to the current I'm consuming. This does not apply to any other country in the world, ladies and gentlemen, because I have looked into it since this morning. It's only here that it's true. As far as Article 19 is concerned, my question - and I insist - Mr Minister is this: why should we go into defoliation? Tell me why! Who's gonna beat us? The German who uses lignite, the Poles, or China along with America and the other countries that pollute the planet? Do we have to save the planet? Will we be the Don Cichotes and the Robin Hoods? To save the planet, are we going to destroy ourselves? That's what I don't understand, you know. If it was a global 'norma', we should also talk about China and all together. Little Elladitsa, what kind of industry does she have? What's he producing? What kind of risks does it have in relation to Poland, Germany, China, France? Tell me! I will put you directly - so you know - what is the question. Who want the lignites? I'll tell you what, because I'm reading a German press. The Germans and the Chinese. You know that better than I do. See where, in a year from now, if this story is over - as you will finish - German and Chinese companies may take the lignite. But here I suspect that this is also a government issue to Germany. So so that you don't have my own thinking, the bad option, convince us that what you're doing is right. Why amputation? If you convince me, I'll be with you. The Germans will burn lignite by 2038, while you, my Minister, are in a hurry to get rid of it, to dust off the coal. Why? Don't tell me about the fines. We have fines. The fines will be ‘will’. Not enforced yet. Greece, Germany, Poland is one third of world lignite production, Minister. So here's what the cheese is in the light of the light, the lignite and the light are the Germans. I'm telling you right now, don't find it in front of us, we'll all be sad. I'm one of those people I'm against photovoltaics on earth on Greek. I can't see photovoltaic parks in the ground that the mother is born, the Greek fruits. I have been mad at this story since the previous legislatures made it up to farmers to make photovoltaic parks their field, which could give enormous added value. We are now forced to provide financial support to private individuals so that photovoltaics can be available. They're incredible happening in Greece. You have had farmers make photovoltaic parks, which this mother, the Greek land, with the best climate, the best waters, the best ground, the best ground, could be fruited with agricultural goodwill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u150	We didn't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u151	Not you, the previous ones, all the rulers. They didn't motivate the farmer, Mr. Lebanon. That's what I'm saying. It's not Mr. Hatzidakis' fault. We should load it up to Mr. Hatzidakis, but not that. To God! That's what kills the primary sector. We're killing this goodwill. The Netherlands has EUR 200 billion primary sector children, approximately EUR 100 billion has Israel. We have EUR 15-16 billion. Why? With such horror policies, you have been politicizing. Because it's a sad policy to drive the farmer to the photovoltaic. It's a horror, it's a fighter. Let's go to something of the news. No one has spoken of Mr. Dictator. Do you remember Mr. Pleasant, ladies and gentlemen, in Lagard's flash drive? Do you remember him? Man was acquitted yesterday. Sure! Because the Lagard list was there, but they couldn't control them - he says - because it was illegal the USB transaction. In other words, we found criminals who were taxing and avoiding tax, but the perpetrator who hid it was acquitted, because - listen - there is no public harm. This is Greek justice, bad Greek justice, because there are also the good judges. When you exempt "SIEMENS", "NOVARTIS", "Pirots", "Velopoulos" and all of them, you no longer trust Greek justice. Of course, Mr. Venizelos was a witness. Mr. Venizelos has been a witness. Because I hear they want to be proposed by some for the President of the Republic. He witnessed in favor of Mr. Pierce. He says: "It was a noise of populist irresponsibility and a political affair, the Lagard list. The tax was stolen by two thousand five hundred Greeks and no one was punished. Is that how we're gonna go forward? In closing, I will show two photographers, so because the image speaks for itself, because we have been swollen here - and I say it publicly - with the poor chauffeurs, the unaccompanied children who are actually a matter. So I'll show them an unaccompanied kid what he did to Thrace. He's a cop. Do you see his head? He went to check him out and he opened it to him. I'll submit it to the Minutes. End the story. Can I say it again? Unaccompanied child is under twelve years old. Under eighteen years of age he is underage. More than eighteen years old, he's been wretched. When I see twenty-sixteen-year-old cuffs considered unaccompanied, I say, "God, I'm still nineteen. I'm telling you to understand that the immigration issue is a very serious matter to just look at it and say that we put the favourite candidate, which was with Soros as a best friend. It's a serious case. It is said that there are no solutions for pushback. I suggest you what Australia does. Do you see that? It is the ship the Australian government bought for those who attract and go to the islands near Australia, put them in, they are with food, bread, water, etc., it never sinks and pushback them. This is what the Greek Solution will do so that no one comes to the Greek islands, without papers, illegally, to legalise them afterward. You should take a look at it, Mr. Lebanese. It's a very nice boat for those involved in the sea. There's water in it, etc. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Australia does it, multicultural Australia, not Greece that is Christian and you want to make it Islamic. Because now you are trying to make Greece Islamic. They're multicultural, and they're doing this. You who are Greek Christians - those who are Orthodox - want to make Greece Islamic. No, gentlemen! I'm asking a question and a soul statement to our Prime Minister. I couldn't figure out how he was choosing partners. He, Mr. Doko, why did he take him as a national security counselor? Dokos speaks in "ESTIA" about collecting oil in the Aegean Sea of Greece - Turkey. The “ESTIA” is a right-wing newspaper, it is not left-wing. I'll submit it to the Minutes. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You know, Mr Levant, I said this last thing for one reason, because you are talking about lignite, you are selling, you have Doko who advises Mr Mitsotakis, who talks about collecting the Aegean with the Turks. You won't leave us in a green clay. This government will leave nothing to the Greek. [[At this point, the President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We tell you that we will insist that the Greek is first and then anyone else. This Greece will remain Greek and Christian, they don't want anyone. But tolerant always. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u152	We will give Mr. Economou the floor for seven minutes. Then we will continue from the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u153	I'll start with Article 2. It has been said that we are amending the terms of the contract by means of the regulations we are taking and also that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament was negative in this regard. That's not true. The Scientific Committee of Parliament has no objection to the substance, but it says that the reasoning was not clear. And it wasn't clear. I would like to clarify exactly what this is about no question of ambiguity and the feasibility of the regulation. In the ECHR, the "Asteras" development plan is set out in five areas. Maybe six. So the whole property is divided into five or six different zones. For one of these areas, it is stated in the plan that divided ownership is permitted. For the rest, he doesn't mention that. Questions have been raised, if, for example, the creation of divided property is permitted in the other areas. This is their ambiguity of plan. The plan was approved in 2017 on SYRIZA and has this ambiguity. Let's see what general legislation says. The entire area of the "Aster" and the five zones are within the plan. Consistent town planning legislation provides that split property may be created within a project. Therefore, not only in the area explicitly mentioned by the ECHR but also in the other areas under the established legislation which, in any case, did not have the right to amend the ECHR. He had no legislative authority. The total ‘Aster’ under the established legislation allows divisive ownership. Because questions had been raised because the project mentioned only one zone. Apparently from clumsiness. But in order not to put up with this questioning to those who do not know these things - they have technical details and complexity - we have brought the regulation which simply clarifies. In other words, it says that the true concept of the "Aster" project says that it is permitted in all the "Aster" areas, that is to say in all the "Aster" projects the creation of a divided property. Nothing else. It was important from the outset, anyway, that this is what it is all about. Neither the terms of the contract are changed in advance, nor is there a substantial objection from the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. And now that I have explained exactly the reasons, I think there will be no question. A second point is a regulation with Article 3 of the amendment on hotel facilities. In other words, it is allowed on underground floors to install certain activities such as sauna, gyms, such things. The following two have been said. First of all, that we will legalise such illegal structures that exist before and, secondly, that this is how the landscape is affected. I'll answer both of them. There's nothing illegal about it. We say that right from now on anyone who wants to do it can. It has nothing to do with the previous illegality. I will return to the arbitrary next. Secondly, this possibility of putting swimming pools, gyms, saunas, etc. does not only affect the landscape but helps the landscape, because it reduces the total volume of the building above the ground, so the visual nuisance is reduced. We refer to high-level hotels. The hotel at the same time can have all the infrastructure necessary to compete against our Turkish, Spanish, Moroccan, etc. That's what this is about. Another point which was raised was that I had answered and referred again. With Article 6, we are giving an extension to the maintenance of some cover in the Evros Delta. We were told that SYRIZA had the same arrangement and we rejected it. Why did we reject his? That's why. In 2017, SYRIZA had predicted that for two years, i.e. until November, these cabins could stay. Why? Because in these two years, the government would have brought a presidential order to protect the Evros Delta. This didn't come under a clear responsibility from RIS and RIS. We know who the people are. So what we are doing is that at the same time we started this presidential decree. We have also committed ourselves to the committee and to the fact that before the end of the new extension we have given for two years - as much as the initial because nothing has been done so far - we will have brought the Presidential Decree and we are necessarily giving this extension. It is important that these are cabins, where there are other serious and obvious reasons for keeping them or, at least, to be maintained until the Presidential Decree on protection is in place to clarify what is going to happen. [[At this point the IV Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the presidential office.]] I have not heard anything in plenary today about the provision of the arbitrary and electronic identity of the building. Unless I didn't get that news. But there have been reports to the committee. I would like to say the following. The provision we bring is not about arbitrary. It concerns the activation of the electronic identity of buildings, which is a reform that has been envisaged for many years but has not been implemented. We are actually triggering this reform. What does that mean? That on an electronic basis there will be an electronic identity describing the basic features of the building. This is an extremely developmental measure. It's abolishing bureaucracy. The citizen will once submit these supporting documents to the system and then by pressing a button he can have as many times as he wants this information. Investments will accelerate because we will not have the delays. In addition, this is the new building, together with the electronic identity already provided for by us and the electronic identity of divided property. Why is that? In order for it to be possible for the electronic identity to be checked and those declared arbitrarily anyway. That will allow from now on the strict control of every new arbitrary person. Because when he wants to transfer, he wants to inherit a divided property that is arbitrarily owned, it will be possible immediately to identify arbitraryness and therefore have a very strong incentive from now on to prevent the owners from making new arbitrary. The aim is not to have a new generation of arbitrary people. I have said that sometimes for the old generations of arbitrary people there are multiple responsibilities. We don't have to hide about it. From now on, we must not have a new arbitrary system. That's the point. We are keeping the 2011 red line anyway that has been agreed, I think, from the whole House. We do not move the red line, but we find a way to control the future arbitrary construction. And at the same time we have all the other positive things that I mentioned about bureaucracy, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Minister. Mr Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. Here comes Mr. Logiadis from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the development of PPC is not the responsibility of neither the workers nor the people, but the liberation policies that you have all served for these years so that there are new areas of profit for capital. With the draft law, the Government of New Democracy continues, as the Minister said, from where the previous government stopped, bearing as an example PPC RES where the same line was followed by the SYRIZA Government as regards workers' rights. He's launching a fierce attack. For workers smashing rights and for the people more expensive electricity. It's anticipating redundancies. Willingly you call them to be easier to accept. It provides for the abolition of the permanentity for newly recruited workers, legalising the working middle-ages that were also in PPC S.A., with multi-speed workers maintained by the previous SYRIZA government. It provides for a reduction in the income of employees by abolishing the condition of the collective agreement that was signed, instead of increases in PPC proposed the specific tariffs for PPC’s employees and pensioners. You are lying when you claim that the special invoices were a charismatic provision from PPC S.A. to the employees. This regulation is a continuation of the overturns that you have voted on and the development law on collective agreements, with the exceptions of their implementation, in order to reduce the price of the labour force by reducing the average wage in all sectors. Further support with the anti-legislative framework of reducing operating costs to increase profitability increases the working conditions of the workers. It is characteristic that in 2018 100 accidents at work were recorded in the name of profit and a fatal in the DEDDIE, a subsidiary of PPC. Of course, the bill does not deal with the issue of health or safety at work. With these developments, not only are workers being protected but, on the contrary, their position is rapidly deteriorating, as are local households who cannot pay the increased electricity price which has reached 150% in recent years and with the recent increase. The hunting of microphets by extortion and cutting electricity is another aspect of your policy, which increases energy poverty. These are the 'good' of liberation, which you and PASOK have been faithfully serving, from which a speaker here presented to be 'innocent of blood' and also SYRIZA. The violation of workers' rights and the prices for the people 'in God', as they say. The friendly environment is thus formed for the business groups that invest in PPC. The restriction of PPC, the privatisation of IPTO, DEDDIE and PPC, as well as the closure of lignite plants, come to serve their business groups and designs. Thousands of families will be destroyed through this logic of defoliation, which you say. Modernisation of PPC is the abolition of fixed and permanent work, the fixing of wages by PPC's board of directors, the abolition of collective bargaining, the collective agreement, the dismissal of staff working with permanent employment relationships and with labour rights defined by collective agreements, which are voluntaryly defined as exit, and their replacement with new employees. According to the draft law, the new contracts will be: ‘by way of derogation from the operational collective labour agreement in force in the undertaking or from the Staff Regulations PPC, or from any other operational agreement, regulation or practice, in particular as regards the remuneration of the new recruits, licences, any increase in remuneration, allowances and other benefits, as well as the conditions and procedures for redundancies’. I mean, everything. In the name of competitiveness and modernisation PPC will have to lay off about five thousand employees in order to reduce its costs, stating the good argument that this will allow for "competitive" tariffs. The draft law does not provide for any protection for workers in the DEPA Group. Even this duplicate article, which provided for the three-year protection of dismissal and the conditions of work, abolishes evenly on the ground that the legislation governing employment relations, which, of course, did not respond to the need for permanent and stable work, was applied in a uniform manner. The Minister provocatively stated that "modernisation" is not to be imposed on us by today's workers how they will work and what contracts the new workers will conclude and brought OTE as an example, which, of course, the responsibilities here if you want the government and employers' union that accepted the differentiation of the old and the new ones are too great. These new measures and regulations aim to improve the service of capital in order to achieve over-profit. Overturns in industrial relations served, as we said, by all the governments. The creation of multi-speed workers: permanent, permanent with individual contracts, fixed-term contractors, contract workers, contract workers, contractors, renters, are what previous laws have brought towards liberalisation by privatization. Capitalist development, investment and the profits of millions of people who are made, are accompanied respectively by a deterioration in the position of workers in the industry, do not serve the people's needs for adequate and cheap energy. The standard of living of workers in the industry is falling, tariffs are rising and energy poverty is spreading, because in the market economy, capitalism, labour is 'cost' and energy goods, a means of profiting capital rather than a social asset. We welcome the movement of workers in PPC and PPC, and call on them to organise their actions for their rights and for a cheap electricity for the people. We support the following requests: no further privatization of the energy sector must go ahead; direct recruitment of those working through contractors, the abolition of all flexible labour relations; permanent fixed work for all with full modern rights; no sale - delivery of power plants, mines and mineral wealth; no popular family without electricity and gas; current and natural gas cheap for the people; signature and application of collective agreements with increases for all the recovery of losses; health and safety measures at workplaces. Finally, we tabled the amendment as a JRC providing for the inclusion of contract workers, elastic workers in the DEPA Group, with recognition of their pre-service, and for the protection of all workers from dismissal and the rights involved in it. We call on all sides to vote in favour of the JRC's amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Logiadis has the floor from Mera25. Please keep the word. I'm sure we all have nine more hours to talk to. So think about it so we don't go any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u157	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us speak Greek. Release of the energy market. From what liberation? What is nothing free of energy? It is not free because it must and must be controlled by the public interest as a good produced for everyone regardless of and consumed by everyone regardless. This is our position as Mera25, this is my position as Greek for energy. Modernization. PPC's story is an old story. It is what we call my "historic, my sin", since 1960. I'll talk about that, too. So the word of modernisation. Who has run the largest Greek company, as we have said so many times, with a monopoly and power, with over seven million customers, with a debutant of more than EUR 6 billion? Not me, not us. Who brought her to this tragic point today, dishonesty? Why didn't you all rulers update it all these years, decades? All of them, none of us. I come from business, private sector. If I had a monopoly business in my hands and was throwing it out, I'd either be incapable or stupid or inconvenient or corrupt. Unfortunately, this has been done all these years with PPC. You deceived her, dismantled her, and now you're selling her part party. PPC's problem began in 1960, as I said, with POSINE, this huge scandal. When PESINE paid 7 drachmas, KWh farmers paid 14 drachmas to KWh and household consumers 22 drachmas to KWh. Thirty-two years later, in 1993 the government was scandalously inclined to extend for another fourteen years until 2006. PPCINE became "Aluminium of Greece" and reached the hands of a private person, which we know. Gifts to PPC and PPC depreciation. What will privatization bring? A few players who will form a cartel - this is always done in the real economy - and who, now uncontrollable, will determine the electricity price. Privatisation is always the well-being of the Greek people, the Greek public. We also know from the real economy that anyone who owns the networks, whatever network, also receives profits. Consumers have risen up in Berlin and Hamburg and are calling for a referendum against its privatisation. In Bulgaria, the same thing. They demand that electricity be nationalised again. In Britain, the UK Energy Regulatory Authority, which has always been the most enthusiastic supporter of privatisation, officially recognised that the model of the privatised energy market is not working. I'm really sorry and it's a disgrace to be bragging the rich and most expensive Greek language and when we say "modernization" to mean selling and when we say "developing" to mean "degradation and when we say "transparency" to mean a transaction. The Florus case is still being dragged into court as it is known. The logic of breaking PPC into small pieces is to sell these small pieces to small, relatively, Greek private individuals at a price very low and degrading price. In these private companies - providers there are hidden charges, but no one reads the very fine letters in the contracts. In fact, these charges have a different name in each private company and usually appear where taxes are. Even the Energy Regulatory Authority in Greece does not approve this, yet they do. The private provider, as soon as no consumer pays the bill, immediately cuts the electricity. Here I would like to emphasise PPC's social character, too. On 18-11-19, recently in committee the Minister asked the previous Minister from whom they are inspired and the Minister himself answers: "From you SYRIZA we are inspired." It's in the Minutes and anyone can read it. "Tenger ran out and found the lid," we tell my village. We, as a PART25, consider the country's interest in energy and water to remain public goods of general interest with proper and user management. I would now like to say two words on Crete and PPC. There will be a connection between Crete and mainland Greece. We welcome that. Well done at the Ministry that will make this interconnection. Thus, KWh's cost will be reduced to Crete and we will no longer burn fuel oil, as we burn, and we burden the environment, and we will also have sufficient power that we do not have on the island. But there is a huge problem of placement. Where will the energy be converted from continuous to alternating current? For while Koriaki, a point outside Heraklion, a barren spot, has now been selected very close to a residential area, the village of Damasa. The residents are up. They don't want that. It's a forest and archaeological site. On 6 June 2019, all actors in the Region of Crete gathered and decided that the scope for transferring the plant conversion from the Damasta region, envisaged by the study, to the area of Korakias, as well as to the total budget of the project, which is expected to be relatively insignificant, should be exhausted. The sale of PPC is the continuation of the sale of Greece's assets. OPAP, "OLYMPIAKI AEROPORIA", OTE, "TRAINOSE", ELPE, airports, ports and now energy. I would suggest that you modernise and privatize both the Parliament and the government and the entire Greek state as well as the current bill. A manager, a manager, and we're all going home. Or has it already happened? Ladies and gentlemen, in closing I would like to say that the castles are falling out of the inside. The municipality is above all and above the individual. The public interest is above private interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too. Mr Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor and Mr Vlachos follows from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to say to Mr Famello that I and all my fellow Members of the parliamentary majority are here not only to support the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment but also to express our complete satisfaction with the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, for the planning of the rescue of PPC. The bills we are debating today have good news for consumers, businesses and professionals and for the national economy. A very good news is that PPC's rescue plan is going ahead. It is important to stress this because it has not been understood how close PPC has reached bankruptcy and how disastrous this would be. Because there are serious responsibilities for the then government that today as a Dedicated Opposition to silence. People, however, need to know that the SYRIZA government has chosen to ignore everything that was warning about PPC's tragic situation. The sharp dip of the cigarette, the large exposure to borrowing, the explosion of unpaid debts, the problems of liquidity. The world needs to know that the way the previous government chose to move forward in opening up the energy market has led to PPC losing market shares on the worst possible terms. With NOME auctions, it forced PPC to sell to its competitors at a price below costs, with total losses estimated at EUR 600 million. The privatization of IPTO has drastically reduced the financial benefit to PPC. With its options it has broken down the value of the company's shares. The world needs to know how deeply it would leave its mark in the economy a very likely, a few months ago, bankruptcy of PPC. The impact on PPC’s largest and smaller electricity producers, suppliers and small contractors in each of the areas that PPC operates, in PPC’s most important customer for the supply of gas to PPC, in the major industries that would reduce their production without PPC’s special tariffs and special services, but also to small and medium-sized enterprises that could not raise the increased energy cost and would put a padlock on the banks that would have seen their results deteriorate, as they had released PPC’s deposits of more than EUR 600 million, which was a cash guarantee for the refinancing of the company’s loans. Above all, ladies and gentlemen, the world needs to know that thousands of households would stay without electricity or with continuous power cuts, with a greater problem for our weakest fellow citizens who PPC elects as a last resort supplier, price increases, drop in production of products and services, closure of businesses, increase in unemployment. Very simply, ladies and gentlemen, PPC was very large and was close to failing and that would have an impact on our entire economy. This truth hides those from the opposition today criticise the PPC’s rescue plan. Fortunately, however, this plan goes ahead. The first step was taken with the recent measures to strengthen the company’s liquidity and to ensure that PPC is viable. The second step is the ones provided for in the bill so that PPC can act as a modern business in an open market and not in terms of an old state in a monopoly market. The third step is the implementation of a development plan that we expect to present in the near future. But, ladies and gentlemen, the good news that this bill brings to consumers, investors, to our economy is more. It is the model of privatization of PPA, which will boost the development of natural gas networks in our country and their greater use by businesses and households. It is the lowest burden on all consumers who share the costs for the electricity supply of the non-interconnected islands. It is the support of large projects for complex renewable energy plants with more than 250 MW and the participation of more RES units in the wholesale electricity market. It is the provision of rules to develop the charging network for electric vehicles, which is an essential condition for the world to turn massively on electricity. It is the most friendly framework for the availability and licensing of biogas and biomass plants by solid waste management bodies, which will help environmentally and economically local communities. It is the possibility of setting up high-quality photovoltaic plants, without it being at the expense of farming and agricultural production with a limit of 1% of this land per prefecture and for energy produced up to 1MW. This will help our farmers to get rid of oil and gasoline that they currently use for their various needs, to have clean energy where they need it and to be able to boost their income by selling the surplus. However, behind this good news brought by the arrangements for opening up the gas market, for investments in RES, for electricity, there is an ambitious goal for our country to be finally decommissioned from lignite by 2028 at the latest, and for them to get 35% of the energy we consume and 60% of the electricity we produce.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Yoyaka, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u161	Just a moment more, Mr President. In order to achieve this, we need to move faster, more decisively with clean rules that shape healthy competition, favour investment and ensure the public interest. This is our compass, this is our philosophy, this is the message that we send out and out of the country, a government that dares to break past for a Greece that will confidently reflect the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, too. I would ask you very much to keep up with the time, seventy-three speakers are registered. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, nine Swedish students and students and a training meeting from Uppsala University. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Vlachos from New Democracy has the floor and Mr Mamulakis follows from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following the exhaustive debate at the long meetings of the Committee on Production and Trade, as well as the detailed position of our rapporteur, Philip of Load and the positions of the Minister and of the entire political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment, I would like to focus on three points. The first, Minister, is about the land of high productivity. It has also been heard in committee, it has also been heard here, it will be heard by other colleagues. Only the way this land of high productivity is approached strikes badly, because we cannot talk about development by trespassing or abolishing the land of high productivity. And that is not because this land is not a renewable natural product, it takes five hundred years to create just two centimeters of natural processes, and that is one reason and it needs protection. I will not invoke legislation, a constitution, decisions of the United Nations Council of State through Agenda 21 on the protection of the land of high productivity. I'll say something that's very self-evident. When we have alternatives to other parts of the earth to use, why should we insist on this? Of course, there is today with the legislation that we have a circumvention and an erroneous interpretation, although there are ministerial decisions, there are circulars, for what is the land of high productivity. So I come to the bill. The draft law speaks of preventing the unreasonable installation of power plants in high productivity land. It accounts for 1%, however, in total farmed areas rather than in areas of high productivity, so that the final area in all prefectures is greater than 10% in practice. In some areas the land of high productivity has not been defined. By exclusive agricultural use, areas have been defined for the development of the primary sector, and, of course, there are decisions to facilitate projects of the ESA, the ESA and all those that are there, indeed, sometimes too low in areas of high productivity. But there's one last thing. In the negotiations with the CAP, you know because some of our partners are insisting on external convergence and on the value of rights, Greece is in a defensive position as per hectare has the highest subsidy among the countries of the European Union. If this area is reduced, you will understand that in proportion to the price per hectare, the subsidy per hectare will be so much higher and there will be a cause for the reduction in the amounts to be taken from the CAP. I would therefore say that photovoltaics could be placed on high-quality land only for the service of farms, drilling and anything else, so that the investment projects of professional farmers can also be facilitated. The total land uses should also be determined. 1%, Minister, is estimated for all interventions at all levels and has as the basis all the farmed high productivity land. Finally, there is a special provision for deserted soils and abandoned land for the installation of photovoltaics. When these alternatives exist, I would like to believe that you will see, at another angle, the subject that I have raised. I now come to the second point concerning the amendment tabled by the Secretary-General on arbitrary matters. There are two gaps here. The first has to do with those buildings on indivisible plots. This was also a matter for us in the past and in fact with Law No.4315, the integration of the buildings into the provisions of Law No.4177/13 was permitted, since according to the explanatory memorandum to this regulation Law No. 4178/13 is a law regulating arbitrary construction rather than property. However, No 4495/17 came and abolished this arrangement without any explanation. So, is the problem not there, SYRIZA colleagues? If so, tell us what arrangement we have to bring. It is not an abrogation, and I am bringing nothing, that is, I do not see the problem, so there is no problem. The problem is also there, Mr Minister, as we have said to Mr Economou, we are asking for the regulation in the previous law to be effectively restored, in the law we are voting on, so that our fellow citizens who have built in indivisible property under conditions - I do not want to analyse it, we call it very thoroughly - can escape the hostage. And I come to the last. You said that the arbitrary arrangements were extended. Classes one, two, three, four and category five with the entirely arbitrary until 30 June are extended. I would have no objection to this arrangement if more than 40% -50% of the existing outstandings were in areas that do not have validated forest maps or final characterisations. Therefore, they cannot go to make adjustments. So there's a peculiar hostage. Why are we telling them until June 30th? I would say to the proposal you are bringing in to regulate that category five can go first by 2025, since these buildings are located in areas where there are no valid forest maps or final characterisation decisions. I think both remarks are fair. They really solve the problems of the society we are living in and should either be in this bill or at some other time - as will be seen by the political leadership - to provide solutions for the relief of our fellow citizens and the end of this peculiar hostage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, too. The next speaker is Mr Mamoulakis from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Anastasiades from New Democracy. Mr. Mamulakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the government's legislative initiative in the energy sector, a set of provisions that, in addition to positive regulations on energy savings in public buildings and electricity, are a total reintroduction to the status of customer recruitment to public entities and to the logic of ad hoc legislation for individual business interests. What do you want to do first? Exemption from the European framework for public procurement? The circumvention of the AACC? The transformation of public monopolies into private monopolies? Or the extension of the law on arbitrary, in the absence of the decisions of the S.H.E. By 2025, that is to say, the horizontal extension of the urban arbitrage regime in our country with a last-minute amendment for six years. So let me focus on one of the areas where there should be national consensus, convergence and consensus, that of the national effort to extend the gas network of the country and to transform the country into a regional hub in the gas sector. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, the objective of extending the gas network in the country is common. But the route we are choosing for this, unfortunately, is dramatically deviating. In the shadow of the incorporation of 65% of DPRK into the first Memorandum and the imposition by creditors of its mandatory privatisation, the previous government prepared a plan that would promote progress in the country's gasification. The plan for the acquisition of the shares of PSC and of Attica SAR by the public and then the division of PPC into PPPs of Trade and Infrastructure was intended precisely to maintain the network under public control in such a way as to allow rapid expansion with social criteria alongside the implementation of our obligation to liberalise the gas market. Apart from our ideological controversy regarding public enterprises and the role of public authorities in utilities, this strategy was supported by some hard technical data at the present juncture. To date, natural gas in our country has, unfortunately, only penetrated three regions and few in them. Most of the expected expansion of the network would take place in new regions guaranteed by the SYRIZA Government. The safeguard was focused both on a EUR 48 million loan with very attractive interest rates from the European Investment Bank, as well as on the integration of this huge expansion with the nature of the public project in the ESRB. It is clear that neither this interest rate would have been taken by a private sector operator nor could it have established the need to extend the network to poorer areas of the country if the entity of this project was private. But that is what you come and say today that it will be fully privatised. Therefore, the vision of access to the gas of the poorest regions and households of our country will unfortunately remain deceptive. What did the President-in-Office of the Council say about this today? I quote the words 'Regulated infrastructure what does it mean? It means that any of these companies have the appetite to develop the network, on the basis of always the state's security regulations and under RAE's regulations and where there is demand, it goes to RAE and gets a regulated performance". Undersecretary, this expression 'whoever has the appetite' is the condemnation of the Western Attica and the mountainous regions of our country in a permanent state of exclusion from the benefits of gas penetration in our country. This "whoever has appetite" is your choice to deepen energy poverty in Greece. This "whoever's in the mood" is your choice to share the benefits from the extension of gas only to the having and, of course, not to the non-preferential. It is so little to see to it that the gas network is extended to areas affected by chronic economic disparities that you have not even predicted what in tens of other cases of privatisation has been foreseen. In other words, you have not predicted a minimum package of investment requirements both in height and in physical terms within the law that we are voting on today. Private, Mr Secretary-General, will extend the network of the country where there are strong consumers and where it is technically and manufacturingly easy. The distribution market is indeed liberalised in compliance with European directives, but it needs a strong public investment arm that will cover the gaps in private financing. Unlike what you told us in the committees, the Attica SAR did not proceed with the work of gasification of Attica, because management had it in private. I am passing on to the second part of the tragedy of the government's plan, the destruction of the prospect of becoming our country's south-eastern Mediterranean energy hub. Mr Thomas told us in committee about the large geostrategic projects in our country, such as the IGB, the 'EAST MED', which the previous government has accelerated and which the present theory supports, that if these projects go together with the Infrastructures Department they will prevent investors. The reason why these projects have been introduced by the previous government in the Infrastructure PPA is so that, where necessary, the public body through the revenues from the regulated charges can finance these projects and ensure their creditworthiness. Obviously, a private person is not prepared to limit its profitability to meet a national energy and economic vision nor to take the risk of such investments that take years to mature. So, in your design, how exactly will the public do these projects? From the state budget? We're gonna cut off the pensions, Mr. Secretary, so we can place tubes? I can't understand it. And will you ultimately socialise costs to make the country an energy hub, but will you privatise the profits from market expansion? In conclusion, therefore, first of all, your project to privatise the PPA grants a private person with loans and a PPA greater than the price that he will pay. Secondly, it destroys the values of a public company, as the money paid by the company for international projects is thrown into the bucket of unusables. Thirdly, it leads to a loss of significant future revenue for the Greek State through the full privatisation of the networks. Above all, however, your project for the PPA condemns hundreds of Greek households, often in electoral bulwarks of the right, in our country of energy poverty. You are doing all of this on your own initiative, as we were surprised to see from the European Commission's surveilling report just now in November. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u166	The next speaker is Mr Anastasiades from New Democracy, followed by Mrs Pipilis. Mr Anastasiades has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the largest company in the country, PPC has reached the threshold of the collapse, and I imagine that that is why no one disagrees in this Chamber. Received in 2015 by the government of SYRIZA with 90 million profits and surrendered in 2019 to the Government of New Democracy with 900 million losses. And I guess that's why no one disagrees. Its share since 2015 lost most of its value. In April 2019, the auditor of ERNST & YOUNG raised a serious issue of the company’s viability. I don't think anyone would argue about that. We all remember the titles of the topical and urgent debate at that time. PPC breaks down. That was the moto. In this situation, the new Government of New Democracy in July 2019 received the largest and most important company in the country with serious liquidity and operational problems. And these are also known and fresh. We all remember them. The new Minister for the Environment and his colleagues, Mr. Hadjidakis, proceeded with the immediate and without delay to take measures, including the measures on pricing policy and the abolition of NOME competitions, which have damaged the company with 600 million, to strengthen the company's liquidity and to keep it alive and running. And he did that. At the same time, it quickly went on to draw up a plan to rescue, rehabilitate and raise the company and to address the crucial energy issues in our country, with an emphasis on environmentally friendly development, which the Prime Minister also emphasizes every time he is given an opportunity. These are the issues that are coming to address today's bill that we are discussing and we are called upon to vote today in Parliament's plenary session. And this is the great challenge of saving the largest energy company in the country. The bill introduces a series of measures to modernise and reorganise the company, including deprivation, opening up to renewable energy sources, privatising the TENE and changing the way employees are recruited, so as to become a competitive, modern and efficient business for both the national economy and consumers. Go ahead to the corporate transformation of PPA and the separation of infrastructure, international projects and marketing sectors, in such a way as to ensure transparency, healthy competition and the attraction of strategic investors, so that it can expand the network across the country, across Greece for the benefit of consumers as well as of the public interest. The draft law also introduces market support arrangements and opens up more of the market for renewable energy sources. It provides among other things, Minister, establishment of renewable sources and high-quality land in up to 1%. I think this needs attention. It needs attention, because our country does not have many areas of high productivity. We have grassland, mountainous areas where renewable sources of energy can be installed and give income to the inhabitants of arid areas. In any case, it takes a lot of attention how we manage this issue of the installation of renewable sources in high productivity land. Finally, the bill contains measures on the energy efficiency of buildings and electricity, where the future is, I believe - and we all agree - on transport. With this bill, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to get rid of a narrow-minded and lacking vision of planning. We have to make difficult, but necessary decisions to save the country's largest business. We have to participate in a European design standard in order to modernise PPC and make it a flagship in energy reform, so that we can have a functional and competitive energy market. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I call on you, in the light of bold and visionary decisions, to break the bonds that keep us trapped and take off the country. And I invite you to support the bill we are discussing in the House on the modernisation of PPC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr Anastasiades. Parliamentarian B2 Sector West Attica of the Change Movement Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou, by letter to the President, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons for the period 9-11 December 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u169	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the Municipal School of Korinthia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Pipilis, Member of the New Democracy, followed by Mrs Papakostas - Palioura.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. In the Committee on Production and Trade, I am a member of a special meeting, twenty-four bodies were invited. Our mistake was that no one represented citizens and consumers was included in the agencies. I then take the responsibility of speaking directly to consumers and Greek taxpayers and citizens as a Member, but also as a consumers of electricity. As regards the initial attempt by Kostis Hatzidakis, of course, by commanding the Prime Minister, on the first step to escape the total disaster, one thing must be realised by the Greek people, that it has escaped a national, economic and labour tragedy. Mr. Hatzidakis, when he abolished, for example, the unacceptable NOMEs, which saved the Greek people 600 million, were clear that this was the beginning for the temporary rescue of PPC. "STANDARD & POORS" is now coming and recognizes the initial effort. And now we are going to be responsible for presenting a plan that will make PPC a modern company competitive, run with clarity and with merit, so that the Greek taxpayer will not be called again for any reason whatsoever. But there is, beyond PPC's financial rescue, something that we must emphasise. It concerns the function of the financial restructuring of PPC with environmental protection. Because at the same time we must bear in mind that the environment is now the supreme authority to which we all have to worship and make legislative changes and other arrangements so that we do not get to point zero, which is foreseen for the next thirty - forty years. I would point out, therefore, that the beginning of depobilisation by 'drugs' by a bill from now on, but also that the strengthening of renewable energy sources is not just about economic rescue, but above all about the protection of the environment. Because I have heard a few comments about work, which I will not go in, because the most skilled are solved, I would like to say that PPC was operating in an arbitrary predatory - we have experienced all consumers in our "pet" - with a rule of labour relations since 1973 and no one has hijacked all the years that the giant state-run operation has been operating with a regime since 1973. So now we are going to the institutions that have an air of optimism to the modern Greek citizen. The abolition of permanentity and entry through ASP is certainly a guarantee. Because - here I am going to be very unpleasant, because before I became a Member of Parliament I was a working professional and, above all, a journalist, very deep inspiring in things - we have almost all become indignant with the terrible family rule that has been maintained across the board and over time. In other words, with this bill, it no longer has the familialism and trade unionism, where the PSP, the PAOK or the PAME - I don't know the titles - were appointed, in common agreement, all the colours of the parliament and of the parties, the brother, the daughter, the niece. So that is really something we need to stress, because once again the Greek taxpayer would pay all of this, like the exceptional pensions and the exceptional wages, without a clear separation between the air carriers, for example, which we owe them a lot more, with the one he sits down - if he was already sitting there - and he was working in an office. So we are also going to synchronism, how new executives of the market, who, in particular, are interested in the future of Greece, more familiar and more technocratic, will now enter PPC. This perpetuality is also abolished. It is not only for the new entrants to be abolished. It is also abolished at management level. Because, as you ministers know, many times the Greek public has been released, so the Greek taxpayer, completely incompetent managers, who received heavy wages and did what they liked, appointed their children and their nieces. So there is something else very positive. The abolition of the privileged invoice of the mother-in-law, comrade, brother-in-law, niece, baptist. So the beginning of the lignite tombstone is until 2029 in Greece - in Europe in general it will become later, but the tombstone is moving - into a lignite that is carcinogenic, polluting. Workers were lost, locals were lost in these areas and you were not talking, because lignite was cheap and helped the Greek economy. And the last thing is that it comes in, thankfully, tombstone in the Fotopoulou synonym, in this synonym with the subtitle "PPC - Fotopoulou synonym, I download the switch whenever I like." So we see that there really exists the decision not only to rescue PPC but to become the most prestigious public company with a stock exchange. I am voting for, not only as a parliamentarian but as a citizen and, above all, as a client of PPC! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u171	Mrs Catherine Papakosta - Palura from New Democracy has the floor. The Bureau wishes you many years ago. Then there's Mr. Nikolaos Pappas from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the current reality regarding the need to strengthen PPC S.A.'s liquidity and, by extension, the need for its viability requires a series of legislative arrangements that this draft law comes to cover, with a view to modernising the company in order to harmonise the needs of today. In particular, this draft law is based on five pillars: first, dealing with the liquidity problem of the company. Secondly, ensuring the country's energy adequacy and supply. Thirdly, the reduction of energy costs which will make it more competitive than the neighbouring countries. Fourthly, protection and respect for the environment, which is demanded by the dynamics of climate change times. Finally, the need to attract private investment funds with the sole aim of developing and creating new jobs. I think we will all agree that, today, after our country's adventure in recent years, we need private investment, reliable infrastructure and energy costs reduction so that households can finally be reduced. The New Democracy aims to liberalise the labour market, in accordance with the rules of a healthy competitive market, as well as to guarantee the country's energy supply. On this strategy, I would like to place myself from this step and refer to the main articles of the draft law on the modernisation and sustainability of the company. Articles 3, 4 and 5, which deal with organisation and operation issues, regulate the way towards liberalisation from obstacles, in order to enhance its competitiveness, while aiming at the optimum staffing of qualified staff, prepared with the most up-to-date scientific data, in terms of transparency and objectivity. There are three positive alternatives for staff who are currently the main capital of the company under Articles 6, 7 and 8. Firstly, the exit voluntary scheme on the basis of defined criteria, secondly, intra-group mobility, thirdly, the possibility of transferring staff to services and bodies in the narrow or wider public sector. In this way none of the company's staff is affected and no one is losing their job, as is systematically called by the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues of improving the company's debt collection require a set of legislative, administrative and other measures designed to ensure the company's liquidity so that its viability in the near future is undeniable. It is well known that, among the major debtors, there are several OTA companies. Article 14, therefore, proposes measures to prevent any further increase of these debts, since the municipality will be a guarantor in the supply contract with the municipal undertaking concerned. It is a necessary measure that will have a positive impact on the current financial situation of a company. The New Republic shall adjust by Article 15 the unit rates of exchange for the provision of general interest services relating to night consumption of households and thus reduce the charge for the consumer. The arrangements for privatising "DEPA SA" aim at transforming it into a specialization of its products, attracting private capital, in order to achieve a substantial reform of the country's gas market, while ensuring and implementing international projects such as the interconnection of Greece and Italy, as well as the interconnection of Greece and Bulgaria. These amendments aim to build infrastructure, manage gas through Memorandums of Cooperation and Agreements which are of benefit to the country and to strengthen competition in the internal and external spheres. Today we have to look into the future, protect the future, respecting the environment and supporting renewable energy production. The arrangements for supporting the production of energy from renewable sources are mainly part of the full degreasing and squeeze of all the lignite plants in the country, with the aim of the year 2028, as our Prime Minister announced almost two weeks ago. Article 20 regulates the participation of renewable energy sources in the wholesale electricity market without operating aid. It requires legislative initiative to be taken to allow power plants from renewable energy sources and the production of high-efficiency electricity and heat, whose owners have not received investment aid. An important role is played by hybrid stations, which are electricity storage systems in autonomous island systems, as well as care for the support of hybrid power stations on non-interconnected islands. As regards electricity and Article 27 of this draft law, the main aim is the rapid development of clean transport to the benefit of citizens. That is why the charging infrastructure of electric vehicles must be developed, in order to move forward with electricity and carbonisation of transport, which is also in line with European legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, in the New Democracy, we are determined to leave our children a natural environment better than what we have found and to fulfil our international obligations and commitments regarding climate change, not because the laws call for it, but because that is what is required by the conscience of each of us, to deliver a clean environment to the next generations of the country. On the other hand, SYRIZA as a government has unfortunately opted for isolation for our country, without any plans for energy policy and without any direction. This is an example of the current deadlock of the Public Power Corporation. We therefore release the energy sector's dynamics and re-establish PPC's dynamic, competitive, reliable, financially sound and beneficial to the country and its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. Mr Pappas had the floor from SYRIZA, and immediately thereafter Mr Kotsos from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now absolutely obvious that the New Democracy strategy for a complete withdrawal of the state from critical infrastructure and networks. It is quite obvious, of course, that this political choice is inconsistent with European and international practice. And don't be surprised, because international practice - especially in recent years - wants countries that have tried this model and experienced their deadlocks with insufficient network development, with increased accounts for businesses and households, to re-state these big infrastructures. This is how it is done both in Canada and in Japan and in Spain and Finland and in France and Cyprus and in Denmark and Austria. These are examples you should be making, before calling on the Greek Parliament to vote in favour of a plan, which is extreme neoliberal and which obviously refuses to see out of the window and draw useful conclusions from modern and recent economic history internationally. I do not understand why these examples and this experience should be ignored by the Greek Parliament. This is, of course, first of all, an ideality and, secondly, the willingness to serve very specific interests. I am sorry to say this, but the majority constantly proves one and the other with its positions and the legislation which it brings to Parliament for vote, and with its attitude to the debate on the Constitutional Review, in which it denied the clause and the provision of control over basic social goods, such as water and electricity, by the state. And it is not only, of course, PPC and PPC that wants to privatise the government. ELPE profitables have also entered the target. ELPE is profitable from 2015 onwards. We have renegotiated the commitment to full privatisation that we inherited and there is the crucial issue of the hydrocarbon company. And there it will be a national crime if the privatisation with mining rights proceeds. It will remind the privatisation of OTE, where networks were sold, the store networks and the satellite were sold. It's exactly the same story. Take care, then, to safeguard the critical infrastructure. What our proposals ensure, you know, is not just the need to secure the property of the people, which, unfortunately, the Minister has depreciated and recorded in his record the loss of forty thousand customers from PPC over the past few months. That's what's happened. And he wondered if he had any other business to do since he took over from slandering PPC. I don't know if you had another job, Minister. What we all know, the pan-Hellenic, is that you have evaluated the work of seizing PPC as your maximum obligation. The other jobs obviously went back. We saw you more often than the other Vice-President on television. That's even more impressive, I'd tell you. Our choice therefore also ensures the development strategy, because there was provision in consultation, in the bill, for the private person's obligation to develop the infrastructure project properly if your plan proceeds. And he's retired. So what do we say now? I am not telling you about the inhabitants of the remote regions, who will not see when gas is in their neighborhood, and so they will not have a reduced environmental footprint and lower bills. Do you know that there are areas in the Vineyards and Hive that do not have gas? How, then, will the individual guarantee adequate network development? And you also sell 'green policy' with the allegedly defoliation that you will make in 2028, without any plans for these regions and, of course, refusing to vote in favour of our own proposal, which provides for a specific development plan for the areas in which defoliation is to be made. Here you are slaves of some ideas, which have failed miserably. And I'd tell you it wasn't always that story of your party. The country's electricity was made by the state-run PPC, with a government of Constantine Karamanlis. Mr. Russopoulou, not the youngest you've ever been a close associate of the oldest. Isn't that right? And it was with the money of the insured at PPC employees. Strong public intervention by a conservative government - lessons in political economy, which you are ignorant - so that the people will come to pay the price of these obsessive choices. Let me also mention this: it seems to you that it is not about whether we have regional disparities, it is not about the adequate and homogenous development of the networks that will give Greek citizens equal access to a product that is improved in relation to oil for their energy needs. Obviously, it is not about the equality of citizens towards the state. I am referring, of course, to Mr Father's infamous case and his appointment to the Cardiff Hospital. It does not concern either your Parliamentary spokesman who called for "apologies" or "very" Mr Vorides, who said today... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. ...in the morning on a TV show: "Hey, who would we put? Foreigners?’. Yes, sir! A child, that is, graduate of the National School of Public Administration who made his papers to become a hospital commander, is a foreigner in his homeland. Foreign as to the list of members of the New Democracy obviously. However, this does not concern either your parliamentary representative or Mr Vorides. It's about Mr. Mitsotakis. It's about Mr. Mitsotakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u175	That's not how Mr. Vorides said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u176	It doesn't matter what Mr. Voridis said. Trust me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u177	You're paraphrasing every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u178	It doesn't matter! Let's assume that I was paraphrasing Mr. Voridis. It doesn't matter. Mr. Mitsotakis has to go out and answer. So Mr. Father said that he accepted the simple exchange, to leave the Independent Greeks, to enter the New Democracy and to become a hospital commander.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Pappa, you make ministers, not hospital managers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u180	And then, when the deal broke down, he went out and submitted it to us in public. So answers must be given by Mr. Mitsotakis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, if you will allow. Uncertainties thicken. It's absolutely obvious...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u181	You make ministers, not hospital managers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u182	Mr Hatzidakis, please, because I have heard a Member of your Parliament a moment ago, from this Step, bailing against family rule. I was really incompetent. Unless he was addressing majority benches, government benches.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u183	And it was about you when you were government. You've probably forgotten.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u184	So I conclude by saying this: it is quite obvious - look - that the shadow of uncertainty has begun and spread, because you are tabling a budget, which will only come out if you save 800 million from public bodies, if we get 2.8 growth and e-commerce bears too much revenue. And the constellation of this uncertainty, what do we have? Mr. Theodorikos. And what did Mr. Theodorikos say this morning? That we're going to double elections. Yes, sir! I would like to inform you that it is not up to you with which system of election will become the next. And you all know that from the next poll, fifty of you will not be in this Chamber and we will be reinforced. Already today... So what does New Democracy say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u185	And a lot of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u186	Mr. Pappa, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u187	I shall conclude, Mr President, and I apologise. And ask yourself why four months after the election, the election has begun again and you confess with the Minister of the Interior that you will not be part of the next government solution. For the next call will be made with a mere analogy, and there the progressive forces will give their answer. We have demonstrated, even when we do not have an absolute majority, that we can make partnerships that have already been implemented and taken out of the memoranda. Ask yourself why the election began today. That's what I have to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u188	Thank you. Mr Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have expressed your desires for SYRIZA to see elections directly, but they forget that if they look between them, they will see too many of them on the patriotic front as they stand, by the Independent Greeks and Ministers, you have done them. So the hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that Greece is at the crossroads of the east and west. It is the last point of European integration and it must stand on its feet, dismantle and economically and energy. After ten years of crisis it is time at last to create a new mix of energy policy, to change the energy mix in our country, to move quickly to liberation, to get rid of energy dependency from third countries and, above all, to face energy poverty and to respond to those who in previous years were looking to find fuel to warm up, even to their own furniture. The rationalisation of PPC's largest producer and provider of electricity is a strategic planning for our Government. It must not escape to any of us that PPC, once a mighty energy and economic giant, in the years of the previous government has risked exploration. It was essentially a time bomb received by the new government, the new Minister, ready to explode in her hands and immerse both the country and the Greeks and the Greeks in the dark. That's what you've achieved. Fortunately, thanks to the brave, quick and decisive moves both of the Minister and of the Prime Minister, this bomb was deactivated, the risk was saved and, as was said before, PPC finally removed the nose out of the water. Also in the bill under discussion, elements that trigger social justice and democracy are identified. We are fighting energy poverty. We are on the side and we support vulnerable social groups of the population with household lightings using a night invoice, where reductions will be between 35% and 65%, for those who have a very high consumption of over 1,600KWh. Also, the draft law attempts to restructure the large patient, PPC, rationalisation in its operation, modernisation, on the basis of the new data created in the energy market, because it was rightly said by a previous colleague "how to compete with the other energy competitors, when wage costs are so high when operating costs are so high". In this way, flexible recruitments are provided, abolition of permanentity, as well as the removal of permanentity among directors-general, which will be constantly assessed, will be judged on the basis of their efficiency. In order to normalise the status, the whole status of recruitment that will take place outside the AACC will be reversed, through the market, but always by the supervision and criteria of the Personnel Selection Board. It seems, therefore, that the Government of New Democracy clearly shows the way in which the choice of the workforce as well as the executive capacity of the entire enterprise must be made, with the aim of increasing productivity in such an important and critical business as PPC. Another structural pillar relates to renewable energy sources, where there is one percent of the high-quality land with photovoltaics is in the right direction, and above all gives an answer to the issue they are putting in, in order to increase their income even more, but not to cover the whole production land.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u190	Tell your county what's not going to be products.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u191	Of course, I say it in my prefecture, and I say it right now to the entire Greek people. In addition, the Government brings in a discreet framework to deal with the licensing of biogas stations, which is coming to favour local authorities, solid waste management bodies and public administration in general. For we must not forget that within HYTACs, in HYTOCs, biogas can be exploited energy, that it is an additional financial resource for both PGCs and local government and that it can further rationalise the management of solid waste in our country. And since we're talking about renewable energy, I'm going to hydroelectric. Here, Minister, we must be worthy of both our reputation and our name, but above all we must combat the ideas of the previous government. I am referring to a project, an important project for our country, an important project for Thessaly which is a monument of modern abyssism and modern Greek abasement. I am referring to the Messochora project that began as part of Acheloos. He's now disconnected from him. It has been spent by the Greek state near the EUR 500 million so far. Since 2001 the dam is ready, the plant is installed and it remains inactive. A country that has been using and using its national resources in this way - because this project has been built with national funds, colleagues - and has been leaving them inactive for over fifteen years, this country has no future. And be careful, this plant, which PPC maintains today, has staff there to oversee, if it works, will produce 165MW of clean energy. Do you know how much he'll pay PPC annually? EUR 30 million net profits, i.e. in the years that have passed, would have been amortised, and that remains, I say again, because of ideas and obsessions. Here, Minister, I think that as soon as possible you should visit and start the procedures, at last this work will yield to the Greek economy, to the Greeks and to the Greeks. Finally, I will make a reference to the other, huge, large, modern bridge of Arta, the work of Acheloos, where 485 million euros have been spent for the Sykia dam - national resources - in 65% of the total. The eighteen km roaming tunnel that would bring water to Thessaic Campos is complete at 85%. The cost to date is EUR 180 million. Another EUR 50 million is needed to be completed and you know what the development is, it is falling apart today. The water resource management plans brought about by the previous government do not provide for this project. But even so, Minister, this work could be used and exploited as hydroelectric. At the same time, since Kinetta and Mandra are recent to forget them as a civil protection project, I will tell you this: given that the dams have been made, due to the fact that the roaming tunnels that lead, through the mountain, the water downstream to Acheloos, have actually been based on 70%, with every great rainfall at risk of water coming to Thessaly alone. In 2016, only half a metre under the roaming tunnel had reached the water - and I hope that we will not mourn victims of this stagnation - which means that if we continued raining at the same rate for half a day, probably the Mouzambique, my Municipality, but also a part of Thessaly, there was not. We must therefore give an answer to these issues, especially to show that the Greek people's money is not inactive. They have invested in important productive projects and, above all, they pay back to those who put them from their pockets. I am voting in favour of the bill and I call on the government at an even faster rate to go and leave behind the voices of the past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGEROS VENIZELOS", thirty-four students and students and three attendants of the private primary school Educational School of Panos from Nafpatikos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The floor is given by Mr. Psakakis from New Democracy and then by Mr. Arahovitis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, new bases are set for the energy market to become competitive, functional, in the light of sustainable development. The government, with the aim of putting society on a new path of experience and development, faces important issues, such as the PPC's, which the outgoing government pushed on the edge of the cliff. The current Government seeks to modernise this large company in order to make it more flexible, more efficient and more capable of responding to the new environment of energy markets and liberation. The bill attempts to place things in their right place in a liberal and reformist spirit, such as the European countries participating in the large European Union family. Minister, I would like to remind you of the important parliamentary work that we have done as a forceful opposition - reminding each other of the written questions - that the government that came out of it ought to have, in thirty-three prefectures where we have wind parks to pay the percentage that is applied to the municipalities in time, as the law provides. We have ensured, with our own pressure, the presidential decree on the distribution of profits and the payment of all percentages to the municipalities and natural persons of the municipal communities in the region of which wind parks operate. In fact, I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, with great delay, even though this was planned to be paid in four years 2010-2014, it was paid in 2016. Already for the four years 2014-2018 despite the repeated reminder, unfortunately, it was not consistent with that debt that it has as a state. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of this draft law there is an extremely important regulation for the Evros Delta and in particular for the construction of the aquifers in the aquatic environment. It shall be granted under Article 6 for a two-year extension and the recovery and enforcement of all sanctions and the validity of any administrative demolition acts adopted pursuant to the legislation in force shall be suspended. This development is the result of a painful staff, my parliamentary struggle, which goes back to the previous parliamentary term with a number of letters, questions and not just. However, the great bet will be won, Minister, when the relevant presidential decree regulating the overall operation of the aquatic habitat lays the foundations for the development, protection, exploitation and shielding of the remote area. As we all know, the Evros River Delta is a natural border between Greece and Turkey. At the same time, it is a natural place for professionals such as farmers, farmers, hunters, hunters, fishermen and not just, who are guards of the ecology and protection of the region. Therefore, the constructions concerned must meet national, tourist and professional and educational requirements. They must be in line with the natural environment and in accordance with the conditions applicable to protected areas by international conditions. At the same time, provision must be made through the country's highly secretive national plans, to be used when and if required as promoted national guards for surveillance and guarding the sensitive area in intensification or diversion periods. It must not, of course, be forgotten that it is an area of unlimited natural beauty governed by tourism and education. However, the infrastructure is incomplete for the reception of tourists. The issue of this use of tourism requires that the legislative gap be covered with regard to the licensing of the area's special population, so-called platforms, used for professional, service and tourism purposes. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the development of two lakes within which fish farms whose infrastructures were destroyed by the successive flooding phenomena of 2006. I have shown Parliament on many occasions. However, the prospect of revitalising activity in the county must be taken seriously, as there is a strong interest in fishermen and other investors. In order to make maximum use of the diamond of Evros, the River Delta requires the partnership of all the institutions involved to draw up the proposed presidential decree on terms, Minister and ladies and gentlemen, of development for our region. This development gives a breath to the Hebrews in affirming in the run-up to the Prime Minister's commitment that he will be very careful in the Evros region. The delta of the homonymous river will be exploited with a plan. Minister, we're waiting for your plan. We shall express our opinion, because we have as a political office international experience both from literature and from Europe that has similar aquatic habitats. In fact, we have made it simpler to the previous government through the last written question that I tabled in spring 2019, even ringing the bell that the two-year period expires at the beginning of November this year. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastasios Prussakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, the presiding office of the Association "Sinio Delta" wants to visit you as I have informed you. First of all, we thank you for the work carried out in our region and, secondly, for tabling the views of all these professionals, the natural persons and the institutions involved in this process. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Prison. Minister, you have the floor for announcing legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u195	I do not think a colleague will be surprised or that these legislative improvements will cause turbulence. It's technical and verbal. They shall take into account comments made in committee. All sorts of legislative improvements, Mr. Hatzidakis. We're two in the room today. A strong minority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Arachovitis has the floor from SYRIZA, followed by Mr Giannoulis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days we are following this goal of the government by appointing their own children as managers in hospitals. We saw in Kythera the resignation of the President of the Local Organisation of Kythera, we saw that they were confessed to dealing with the political leadership of the New Democracy, that they were appointed besters and confessed, that commanders were appointed to hospitals with loose ends with justice. What else are we going to see in this country and in this case? However, let us begin with the matter that concerns the plenary today and put some things in their place slowly. We start with the lending and state of PPC what it was like on December 31, 2014 and how the situation was in PPC on December 31, 2018. Well, the long-term lending on December 31, 2014 was 4,851 billion, short-term lending of 678 million, a total lending of 5,529 billion. On December 31, 2018, the corresponding figures were: the long-term lending of 3,905 billion, the short-term lending of 30 million, a total of 3,935 billion. So we see that the reduction in borrowing is 1,594 billion. Almost 1,600 billion. That's the reality, whether it's like it or not. So now we are going to have a general view of the bill, which we are discussing. This is another bill which serves private interests, without at the same time taking any care for both the protection of the public interest, of not taking any care of the country's energy security and its shield, of not taking any care of transparency in the recruitment of personnel, of no concern for the accessibility of all citizens to energy and of course of no cost from the use of private energy networks. It is unprecedented that distribution networks should be granted to private interests, without any possibility of public intervention. But let's go to Article 24. Minister, you have heard the relevant bodies with primary production, both the GEOTE and the associations of farmers, photovoltaics. All of you have said that 1MW on high-quality land does not concern farmers. It is therefore about a change of use from agricultural to non-agricultural. You need to see this in relation to both the Constitution and the European Union and the UN - the European Commission in Article 24 and the UN through Agenda 21 - where it specifically protects the land of high productivity. Here, too, we are talking about certain organisations in favour of photovoltaics, renewable energy sources. But here in Article 24, we are talking specifically about high productivity land. We are not generally abstract and abstract about renewable energy sources, we are not generally abstract and abstract with photovoltaic ideas, which everyone can say there of course is in favour of renewable sources, etc. But in high productivity land, breaking the n.e.c. in Article 14, we are talking about something different. He told you, sweets, I must confess, and the chairman of the committee, Mr Vlachos, a little while ago. We have all pointed out to you that we are talking about something different here. I will shortly submit to the Minutes that GEOTEE, the State's competent advisor since 19 April 2019, not now, has noted some things. He says in particular and points out this by an excellent scientist, geotechnic, the President of the Annex to Central Macedonia, Mr Saropoulos, that in order to create two centimeters of productive land, it takes five hundred years. You also heard in committee the Secretary-General of GEOTE, who told you that at the time we were talking about new CAPs, about subsidies, in Greece, we are changing land use within high productivity land. One must understand - to have a picture of what we are talking about and why we are so insisting on it and we will insist to the end - that our country has a special relief. It does not have flat areas and, in fact, these areas are not high productivity lands. Because, to qualify as such an earth, it has specific specifications. So these lands are very few and must be protected. The 1MW to be built, it takes twenty acres of high productivity. When the average size of the parcel is very small in Greece, you understand that the entire parcels come out of their production process. This is very important and I hope you don't stay until the end. In conclusion, I will submit to the Minutes another point of view, which had been expressed quite early since 20 August 2019. I will present it to you, not as an original but as a post from a specific agricultural site of interest, to see the comments, which Mr Cakavas has signed, the Secretary-General of the Geotechnicals of the civil servants. I give them to you so that no one can tell you that by voting today he was not aware of what we are talking about and that we should take our responsibilities as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Giannoulis from SYRIZA and then Mrs. Gara from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u199	Looks like we're hitting every three months. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say this despite the personal appreciation that one can have on your face and there are many of them - that you are ultimately irreparable. You are irreparable, because you repeat history no longer as a pragmatism but as a tragedy. Mr Hatzidakis, we have been tired of hearing about normality, regularity and regularity lately. Finally, you must baptize it 'neo-democracy'. It is not normality, it is only 'neo-democracy'. And it is not the first time, unfortunately, that the legislation you enter, the instruments you enter, unfortunately, are much smaller than your political stature. You hunt shadows. They are much smaller, and their consequences, unfortunately, far greater than your political stature, not your own staff but your party. I understand, therefore, that this morning, a veil of protection was required in the debate on constitutionality or not, an excessive veil of protection under the Rules of Procedure of the House, so that the other side would not develop. I understand why they need all this. I understand why, with difficulty, only five of your colleagues come to support such an important reform by their presence. I understand, therefore, that within your 'new democracy', the main problem is PPC, but your monopoly is to dismantle public structures, networks and services, which, to the extent possible, protect citizens. And because there is a past, we see data identical to procedures that have your personal signature. You may not keep an eye on me, but I'm sure you're listening. So you did with "Olympic", for years cannibalism and defamation to get the citizen to pay, without any alternative, 180 euros for the Athens-Thessaloniki route. This has the seal of the governance and your decision on the "Olympic". But I'm not stopping here alone. It's not just this past of you. There is also this one that gives rise to whom Floro - surname is, in order not to get any misunderstandings - to end up tracks of what you want to sell, to pieces of networks that have been built, despite the passions of the Public Power Corporation, with a lot of trouble in the past few years. They are networks and infrastructures that you are obviously about to grant to the Florus of the next two years or the next two years. It is also present on other issues, such as vocational training, a gift to private IEC, and public hospitals. And here we catch a vein. You know what, as I have the courage to address you personally, by putting your own political face in the frame, don't try to convince us that white is black when we hear the Prime Minister try to get rid of - not to say nepotism, because it's a little joke - from anxiety. And it's not just the age, it's more generally the qualifications of the eighth-year-old resigning commander of Karditsa. This city has been haunting you since the late Miltiadis Everett era, because I have heard a colleague from Carditsa defending the area of good and good. However, do not try to get the Prime Minister out of this uncovered return to a past that you have built, others have tried to improve it, and you can even bring it back from the back door. They have now lost their pretexts and we have cynical assumptions: "Yes, I traded with the Prime Minister, asked for this, gave me the other one, I took the hospital". Mercy, do not at least try to underestimate so brutally our intelligence. And now I'm drinking some water while it's public good, because after PPC, it's probably next. Mr Hatzidakis, you are legalising the most dreadful procedure that this country has been fighting for years to escape. You have spilled tear rivers for young children, for unemployed graduates, for children with very important studies. And you're wide opening the ferry door of off-site recruitments, even saying there's still a policy that you found with the signature of the SYRIZA. Do you know why he cannot stand any criticism or political dialogue? Because you have not been ashamed to revise everything you have found or to break down, even if we assume that you are right and that it is not a bad reading of what you have shown with great intensity and enthusiasm before your colleagues. I said before that you're constantly talking about regularity. In history it will go through - I am sure - as 'neo-democracy', because you have allies of people, systems, media, who are involved in the public debate, you have made transport containers and you will also exploit it in PPC. I'm sure now that you'll relaunch the past for the staff privileges for free current. You forget, though, who has put his hand in this dreadful situation since the Cultivation and then even before the Cultivation. You have, of course, allies, this network of cannibalism of publicity. As soon as the day before - I see him because he is in front of me and I understand why you are about to throw the ball into the stands - the transporting vessels of the vulgar group of truth that hide behind your party, in good cooperation with some pages, two faces of the SYRIZA who are involved in important political processes, Socrates Famelos - who sit here in front of you - with the energy and Gifts of Auger in pre-examination, are suddenly being smuggled because they have supported students who have the courage to take over without asking why these children are taking possession. I would like to ask you this: your extradition has linked its history to important reforms, but also to significant omissions and mistakes. Do not connect any more, Mr Hatzidakis, and your own personal name second by the suppression of the public character of precious goods. They're wounds and wounds we won't be able to heal if you open them up and insist on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u200	Thank you. Mrs. Gara from SYRIZA has the floor and Mr. Meikopoulou follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before you I would like to confess to congratulating the New Democracy Government on its consistency. Once again we are discussing a bill in very short time with very brief procedures. We are also discussing a bill, like all the previous ones, which therefore reflects all the ideas of its party. They are also consistent in bringing a bill contrary to the interests of the public and of the people. So the ideals that are reflected in this bill. Privatisation of basic infrastructure, sale of national wealth, service of interests, burden of citizens and, above all, of popular strata, rumbles, recruitment without merit, photographic provisions, transactions and much more. And once I said the word trade, Mr Minister, I would expect Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister of the country, to disprove the complaints about personal transactions with the resigned hospital commander. I personally cannot understand and believe that the country's Prime Minister, a Kyriakos Mitsotakis, could fall into a process of trade for a thousand crosses, as the complainant says. I would also expect my country's Prime Minister to apologise to the young people and young people of my generation who have dozens of degrees and claim a position worthy of the struggle and effort they have given, so that they are qualified to be able to run worthy public health structures. So I return to the ideas that are reflected in this bill. You have an allergy in defending labour rights, in defending the environment, in combating energy poverty, in the security and sovereignty of our country. You have allergy to progress and growth. Repeat memorial policies, without that being required anymore. We have come out of the memorials, no one is pushing us, but you are bringing back memoranda and memorial policies, precisely because the memorandum is on your policy memorial. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with a subject that has been particularly afflicted by my region and concerns the huts in the Evros delta. It is a good thing, Minister, that you bring in a provision in this bill that seeks to regulate this issue. However, you have been very concerned overdue so that you could bring in fines and demolitions users in a very sensitive area. You reject an amendment tabled in due course by my side unnecessarily. You have then put your Members and you have tabled them to table their own amendments, which you have also rejected. You are now bringing an amendment that, although it gives an extension of two years to regulate and protect the users of the hull from demolition and fines, this regulation, in our view, seems inappropriate. Unfortunately, it will remain vacant, precisely because you are relegating all responsibilities to the President-in-Office's decree, which is not going to happen. The Presidential Decrees do not describe the characteristics of each house. And, above all, the worst thing is that you announce, you are preside over the abolition of management bodies. It is a project for which you have also informed the participating management boards of management bodies in NATURA areas, which will be disastrous mainly for the sensitive region of Evros. I would therefore ask you to rethink this matter. I will continue with another issue, which again concerns my region and the entire region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, and for us it is of paramount importance. Unfortunately, Minister, with this bill you are blowing off the work of natural gas networks in the air. I repeat. You're blowing up the gas grid project in our region. You remove the possibility from the Hebrews and Thracians to have access to cheap energy, economic warming in homes and businesses. You remove the possibility of reducing production costs in remote areas, the competitiveness and the creation of new jobs and the development of regions, which you only call for in words. To be much more specific, in December 2018 the authorisation for the management of a natural gas distribution network in the TEN had been approved. In the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace, it is planned to build four hundred and eighty-five kilometres of low-pressure network and eight and a half kilometres of medium-pressure network, which provides for the connection of ten thousand new customers. This network serves the municipalities of Alexandroupolis, Orestiada, Comotini, Dramas, Xanthi and Kavala and a total of seven thousand six hundred forty houses, a thousand six hundred five trade and thirty-three industrial connections to natural gas include the design of the TEN, while the creation of over a thousand two hundred jobs in the region is estimated. The total estimated costs of installation amount to 53 million. The funding comes from almost 50% of the resources of the NRP, that is, European resources and 50% of the own contribution, which includes low lending from the European Investment Bank, with the guarantee of the Greek State, that is, Greek taxpayers' money. With this bill, the whole natural gas network, our country's main infrastructure, even risking the security of the country, but also the sovereignty of the power supply. You are therefore putting the existing TEN development programme at risk, which I mentioned above, and there is a certain increase in the cost of building natural gas networks and transferring costs to consumers. Legislate the sale of natural gas networks, calling into question and extending the networks, as they will only be judged in terms of profitability rather than social needs. In other words, you are creating a private monopoly, but you do not have a plan for workers, neither for security of supply, for the cost of energy for consumers and citizens, nor for ensuring the development of natural gas networks in our country and, above all, for the non-preferential and remote regions in the region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you really commit, Mr. Ministers, that this project will go ahead, the development of the natural gas network in our region? Because otherwise you will only be responsible because of your political choices. At the same time, a lot of questions arise about your choice of transporting to the DEPA of Trading and not to the DEPA of Infrastructure or International Works, the Liquefied Gas Station of Alexandroupolis, known as FSRU, which is a heavy infrastructure in the country, as well as a gas portal in our country. It's a strange choice, I'm sure he's hiding something from the back, but you haven't explained to us what and I'm saying again in a very sensitive area. I call on you, for my part - and it is very important - to present to the Greek Parliament the feasibility studies on this option, because we consider that it is absurd and poses serious questions of opaqueness and inequality, and also restricts competition and the geopolitical interests of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u202	You need to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u203	Only a phrase for Article 24. Your choice is problematic, as it allows the installation of high productivity photovoltaic systems. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] One question: Is the New Democracy's proposal to develop agricultural production a photovoltaic? Can you in such a way promote the massive change in the use of agricultural produce, but also the alteration of our environment? Are you planning this development for our rural areas? Unfortunately, once again, it turns out to be your anti-developmental and anti-polar political character. The country is turning too far back, many years back with your political choices. I'm personally sorry. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Mikopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that it is of great value and importance to detect, identify the route that we have reached in today's debate. And I have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that there has been a tremendous concerted attempt to reap PPC and a catastrophe that does not last for the last few months, but over the last five years. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, to substantiate my words, I would mention some of the number of dramatic statements by Mr Hatzidakis: 6/5/2019 "PPC goes on to become a Olympic", 13/7/2019 "PPC" says, "do not have money to buy columns", 20/7/2019 "There is no solution for PPC, I am not a tachyger, SYRIZA has reappointed it", 21/8/2019 "PPC is in danger of turning into a system bomb", 7/9/2019 "The fund is minus if the report comes up with a negative measure to save it." These are only some of the statements which, in essence, are an asymmetric catastrophe by using make news. And why am I saying that? Because the New Democracy suddenly meets the reality that the report of the sworn accountant, which is ultimately positive, eventually removing the uncertainty as to PPC's viability, removing previous labels and validating the management's report. What, then, did this notorious report say? So, according to the financial results in the first half of 2019, who was government, dear Socrates? SYRIZA. - PPC records losses, reduced by 48.5%, over the corresponding period of the previous year. Profit is increased by 18.4%. Turnover increased by 4.3% despite a decrease in energy demand. Operational expenditure fell by 24.4%. On 24-9-2019, after the results of this exhibition, Mr. Hatzidakis comes out in a splendid way and says: "We avoided the bankruptcy of PPC." But what happened in the meantime? The government has been able to increase PPC's tariffs by 15% to 20% and reduce the discount to consistent consumers. I have one question. Eventually, or Mr. Hadjidakis is not only a bourgeoisie, but also a miraclemaker, who managed to rectify the damaged PPC in two months' time or the manipulations of the SYRIZA government did not only deprive it, but they brought it back to the right track. It can't happen both. But let us come to the realms of this bill, ladies and gentlemen. I want to start at work. You come, once again, aggressively and you are attempting to reform the work party at PPC. Article 3. You remove the recruitment process through APA, which is an institutional guarantee of transparency, dignity and objectivity, and it stipulates that recruitment will be carried out by the company itself. Although PPC is a public-controlled company, the PPC plays an unsubstantiated and content-protected extremist role, and is used in a pretext to give a sense of legality and transparency to procedures, but is not capable of effectively controlling them. In what way? With two typical examples. First, it provides that the notice will be sent for approval to the AACC, which, if it does not reply within 10 days, is presumed to approve it. Within ten days of course, only formal and not effective legality checks can be carried out. The second example is that similarly the definitive ranking tables are sent to the AACC for legality checks, which if the AACC does not ratify within 20 working days it is presumed to approve. So, friends and friends of the New Democracy, in the idea that the prerequisite for growth is the deregulation of labour relations and the weakening of labour rights, a new category of workers is formed in PPC, which is not covered by the current business collective labour agreement and the PPC regulation and will naturally be employed on less favourable terms than other PPC workers. What do you do with that? You achieve that, young scientists, who will be rewarded with 600 euros, will have resigned in advance from their rights and lose their dignity, asking for natural charisma again from party offices. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I want to use an argument, which I think you have abused - positively I say this - during the period of opposition. So let me speak on your own terms. So do you attempt, with these working issues that you put in PPC, to stop the Brain Drain or will you achieve the Brain regain of the scientists who left, back in the country, establishing all the reasons why they left, flee and, apparently, will they continue to leave? But not young scientists at 600 euros and without rights, but eighty-eight-year-old states in the administrations of public bodies! That's the reality. So at PPC itself, you welcome the return of market managers with gold contracts, abolishing the remuneration limit for deputy directors, directors and directors of the company, who are recruited by the provisions of the present. In this case, of course, PPC is viable enough to be recruited. Of course, I don't want to throw it all at Mr. Hatzidakis. The return of the Golden Boys to the ECJ had pre-financed Mr Georgiadis with the provision of Article 210 of the development bill, which abolished the cap on the salaries of Presidents, CEOs and appointed advisers at the ECO. At the same time, the percentage of management positions, which can come from the market from 15% to 20% of the total organic management positions, is increasing. How, then, is the work field finally being formed in PPC? On the one hand, you are manning PPC with new cheap consumables without rights and showing the way out to today's workers, to create, as you say - in in introductory form - a "carrying package" for individuals. Secondly, you are effectively abolishing the AACC and creating a completely opaque and grey process, which is not essentially controlled by anyone, and thirdly, you are bringing expensive executives out of the market and you are putting out what you do not want. You do not modernise PPC, instead you follow and apply recipes of past years that have damaged PPC and presented them as a salvation plan. And a comment on the collection of debts. It opens the way for the sale of debts to PPC in funds, since the possibility of transferring claims from arrears to companies other than PPC is provided for. PPC has, to date, commissioned lawyers and collector companies to check how the customer is contacted as owners of the debt. It is unknown, of course, that the fund, which will take on the requirements, what attitude they will take and what strategy they will dictate to collectors and, above all, how weak households and redundant small debts will be treated. But let me come a little - if you will allow me, Mr President, with a little tolerance - to the PCP too. Just as in ELPEs and the ratification of contracts on hydrocarbons, the government's targeting is a specific, withdrawal of the public interest in the interests of individuals and manipulations without a plan and perspective that excludes the public from the energy game. Not long ago, in March, I remind you of 2019, New Democracy voted against the SYRIZA bill for the DEPA, saying that it does not share the need to separate DEPA into infrastructure and commerce, which will lead, as you said, to a depreciation of the company. The bill that we brought back then provided for a strong presence of the public and the infrastructure PPA, maintaining the 51% share and the PPA, maintaining the percentage of the public and maintaining the veto right in strategic decisions for the company. What do we have today? You maintain the separation that you then voted against and you grant private individuals 65% of the public in infrastructure and marketing. You are proving that what you are really interested in - was even annoying to you at that time - was the strong presence of the public. So at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, when the whole world goes into clean forms of energy and the use of natural gas is expanding, you are taking out the public completely outside and granting the network to private individuals, a strategy in a bill that is paradoxical. The first, the Minister, supposedly, takes over the repair of PPC, surrounds it with all these provisions and measures of this bill. You are attempting to modernise PPC, but with old tested recipes that have failed. The third and most amazing paradox is that you are trying to strengthen competition, for the benefit of consumers, as you say, but how? Creating private monopolies. It has been historically proven what the operation of private monopolies is to the benefit of consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, too. We continue with SYRIZA. Mr. Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question. If the Minister, the members of the government eventually are more hypocritical, propaganda or hypocrisy measure. I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that you are all together, with one single aim, to shrink and cancel the presence of the public in all areas concerning the market and energy. Generally, it bothers you. You have an intolerance, but you know, based on that logic, you are actually undermining the public interest. Why am I saying you're a hypocrisy measure? You come here and talk about the need to liberalise, to open up the market. I'm lying? Isn't that right? You don't want to break the monopoly? A moment ago, you said that we were not in the 1970s, which was PPC a mighty monopoly on its own. That's all you're saying. And you come at the same time - where in the plan of small PPC not only did you sell hydroelectric lignite, you also sell a plumbing customer - to what end? To reduce PPC's market share, i.e. fall, leave customers and tell us that for your days PPC's market share has decreased and from 95% we have gone to 65%, somewhere there. Why are you so hypocritical? Wasn't that where it was intended for little PPC's plan? There, along with NOMEs, because both as instruments you have adopted and this is well known. What have you done in the years of coexistence with PASOK, but also together, in the changes either of PASOK or of New Democracy - in the field of energy? No plan of energy strategy, depreciation of the Public Power Corporation, abandonment of the electricity connections, costing millions paid by Greek citizens through the YMOs, no investment in renewable energy sources, because you wanted to leave this dynamic and profitable sector to private individuals, another selective relationship with the private sector alone. You used PPC as a collecting mechanism to collect taxes. You had the most expensive domestic tariff in Europe, the second most expensive industrial tariff in Europe on your day, 60% increase in tariffs from 2012 to 2015. That's what you delivered to us and 5 billion debts. And you come here and you dare and move our finger, you, who have a tradition of a client state into whatever state, because since the 1990s you have loaded with more than ten thousand employees of PPC. There's a family tradition, what can we do? The Prime Minister's name is heavy. It didn't start now, it's a fireplace. And you come here and you talk about us. We reduced PPC's debts to the banks by 1 billion. For the first time, we created a modern plan for renewable energy sources and relaunched the plan. We relaunched the plans for electrical connections. We submitted energy planning. And all this, obviously, at the service of your ideas. Watch out. Little PPC's plan was canceled and we did well, because we didn't want to give the hydroelectric fillets where they are the most profitable units in a company, which we all recognize has problems. We had to make a compromise, on the basis of your own commitments, for a transitional period for the NOMEs, on the basis of which PPC received 2100.000, when I told you - and you do not deny it - that at best in cases, you said that the small PPC project, which would give a clientele, hydroelectric and lignite plants, would receive 1 billion. Not even in your dreams to catch that money. No privatisation could be done in such a way. Before your rapporteur made a statement in the Minutes, when I was Minister for Energy, I disagree with the sale of 17%. Of course, and now we say so. We disagree with the sale of 17%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u208	And what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u209	We disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u210	Please. No dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u211	You didn't give up. You stayed in your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u212	Please let it be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u213	First of all, you need to know why you are a new colleague, be noble and respect the procedures. You must be noble and do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u214	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u215	Mr Colleague, please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u216	17% has not been given and there is no reason to give 17%. We canceled the plan for IPTO. You wanted to sell it. What? The natural monopoly, where there is no competitive environment. Because all you want to do - that's what you suggest and you're trying to do with today's bill - is to make new private monopolies, whether it's called DEDEE, or it's called this 'gas network'. That's what you want to do. Definitely jobs for your friends, for the private interests, but at the expense of the public interest. So this is the concept of the free market, with the "platforms" of the public, with the money of Greek taxpayers making private monopolies? Is that what you want? Free market - because there is a reality in Europe today - means that the public also exists. And wherever there is the public, market conditions are more balanced. Competition is more balanced. Nowhere has the choice of privatisation of the networks of natural monopolies been justified at this time. However, you are retarded in recipes thirty and forty years ago, because that's what you know how to do. It seemed how retarded you are, you know where? In the debate on the Constitution, which you refused to guarantee access to public energy and water supplies. Show who you are. The culmination is what you bring as arrangements for the employees in PPC. Remove ASEP. But you haven't abolished it just now. You are also abolishing it in Enterprise Greece, which is responsible for exports. You want to do the same in the rest of the ECJ. You're preparing it for transportation too. And you want in the place of collective agreements, constitutionally regulated collective agreements, to put the individual contracts in place. Do you know why? Because in your perception of the vision of society you want, the worker not to be traded, to be alone, to be in an unfavourable position to the employer whether he is public or private. That's what you want. Because you are an enemy of workers, an enemy of social interests. That is what you have an absolute consistency. You are still coming, and you are talking about decency, about choices that will be made on the basis of criteria, when you become reckless with the names that are currently coming out for the hospital governors, when you have evicted the sums given for the poster. Literally, you have caused us four years to say about the "children of SYRIZA". Put the numbers down. So that's why you're both hypocrites and liars and obsessed and outdated. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Himaras from New Democracy has the floor, and then the Parliamentary Representative from the Change Movement Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the adaptation to European recommendations for the energy transformation of the country, the delays in the sale of PPC lignite plants, the implementation of important infrastructure projects and, of course, the completion of the privatizations is about to resolve today's bill. I will focus on PPC and the development of the domestic gas market. Allow me, however, especially after the last speaker's reports, to tell you that I had dezavos, I returned five years back in this Chamber. I heard the same narratives that took our country back, which show no prospect. Our aim, ladies and gentlemen, is modernisation, reduction of operating costs, strengthening PPC's competitiveness and, of course, staffing with qualified staff. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, PPC is an emergency company, not an opposition field. You proved four years that you were unwilling, not to say incompetent, to manage the critical and marginal situation of the company. You have not told us so many years how PPC will be saved, how it would cover EUR 900 million of damage, which your government produced, which received a PPC which in 2014 had an annual profit of EUR 90 million. And here you refer to percentages, you do not refer to net figures. You were the ones who brought PPC to the edge of the cliff, according to the auditor you appointed, the 'ERNST & YOUNG' - because we know how to read - with the agreement for PPC to go from 90% to 50% of the market in five years against zero financial compensation. Your agreement, which led to a loss of 90% of PPC's stock exchange value for your days. This was your care for this public pillar of energy, for workers, but also for all the citizens of this country. Unfortunately, even today, you refuse to understand that the country can no longer stand populism and that it needs acts of substance. An end to PPC's decline is needed and a sustainable strategy needs to be developed. I come to the PCA, ladies and gentlemen. The privatization of the PPA is central to the country's development. Already, on 11 September, I tabled my first question as a new Member to the relevant Minister for the Environment, concerned about the dangerous and opaque delays in the procedures for privatization of the PLO. In 2019, and while gas worldwide penetrates all markets individually, in Greece we are called on to fight a race to quickly cover the deficiencies, especially at the level of infrastructure. The previous legislative regime, introduced by the SYRIZA Government, seriously counteracted private initiative and hampered the privatisation process itself. The action map of this draft law on privatization of the IPCC will undoubtedly lead to desirable liberalisation of the gas market in terms of transparency and efficiency. Ladies and gentlemen, we must finally learn to tell the truth in this country. The almost twenty-year participation of individuals as shareholders and managers of distribution networks and gas retailers in our country proved to have been successful, to a large extent. In a relatively short period of time the distribution networks were extended to almost all of Athens, to the urban complex of Thessaloniki, Larissa, Volos, Trikala, Karditsa and smaller cities. On the other hand, however, griefed the results of the actions that have been sought to develop on a purely state initiative. Indicative failed actions were the attempt to promote the movement of vehicles with compressed natural gas, a move without any programming, since I remind you that only fourteen stations were created to supply gas vehicles. I also have to refer to the experience of the TEN. Here the effort to extend distribution networks to eighteen capital cities and cities of three regions, eastern Macedonia, Thrace, Central Macedonia and Central Greece, which I had the honour of representing at that time as the Vice-Regional Administrator with regard to gas, moved at an exhaustive slow pace, which today we are talking about endangering the projects themselves and the guaranteed funding from the NSRF of regional operational programmes managed by the regions. It is worth mentioning that in our region, Central Greece, which was the poorest region, had the smallest programme, 12% of our programme is now committed to the project to extend natural gas to six cities in Central Greece. And, unfortunately, all the competitive procedures remained behind. Today - Minister, I have tabled a question on this - there is a danger that if the competitive procedures do not run fast, we will have a great deal of trouble with the loss of resources. I, at least from my own knowledge and contacts in the Commission, know that in the next programming period, it will not be eligible for financing for projects to expand natural gas networks. This shows that we must move immediately, quickly, to be able to run the competitions, but of course, and set up the local offices. Because we have reached the point, people want natural gas in the towns where the nets are going to be made and looking for information and not getting any information from anywhere. So we need to run the project procedures quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing my speech, I would like to stress that the need to reform the gas market and the completion of the PPA privatisation is largely recognised by the parties in this House, almost all. That is why I appreciate the provisions introduced by this draft law, which could achieve a wide-ranging consensus, since they aim to the benefit of public, consumer and economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u219	I call to Stepma Mr. Strato Simopoulos from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at last, from the most official Step, that of the House, we heard two SYRIZA colleagues last time referring to the very great contribution they had to the development of the country the period during which the nation-stater Karamanlis was Prime Minister, as we heard, and that this fact has made important reforms. It's not too late, it's never too late. Of course, we have heard many arguments, which have nothing to do with reality, which answer the main question why PPC reached this point. And it reached a point where auditors had declared in March that the operation is not viable. The auditors always take into account the administration, always the political environment. That is why in September, taking into account the government's announcements, the new political environment, they stated that the company is viable. I do not know in a few years if some of the citizens or Members from the Step are going to have to say that during the four and a half years, ladies and gentlemen, when SYRIZA ruled the country it was reformed or, in fact, it went through reforms. Because even since the time of the credit card, ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA and its members have been partners in what has been happening for thirty years. also, from the last ten years, the memorandum, half had a SYRIZA government and with your choices, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the deadlock. This dead end, however, also had an advantage. Prove that the Left cannot be a commander. It'll either be left or I've ruled. That was the great achievement you've achieved for four and a half years. This small prologue was considered necessary because we are talking about PPC. When you took over power, you refused “little” PPC, you adopted the electricity auctions, you dramatically increased the debts to the company and generally devalued a large organization, listed on the Stock Exchange and operated on a European liberated market. At the same time, while the RES could have a dominant role in PPC, you kept it with a 3% share. Yeah, you. When you are cut for the environment, you are essentially proving how an idealist and counterproductive government is a problem for the environment as well. You commanded PPC with a left mark and failed fully. Is it, however, or does PPC not have to go through a new period? Should the RES be developed or not, should it go ahead with liberation and increase the collection of debts? Should PPC in general or not be modernised? The answer is, obviously, yes, and goes through the possibility of recruiting skilled staff, obtaining a modern procurement framework and ending being a commitment without a flexible staff regulation. These needs are served by this bill. For the Company Transformation of IPCC, the arguments are proportionate. The main governmental objective remains competition in procurement, while the distribution of investors. This is why it is also necessary for the infrastructure sector and international projects to be separated. In all the above, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Response, how do you respond? You sigh, in a way that refers to your previous opposition period. But you have ruled, and the memories are recent. Rear fights you give, refusing to understand that the liberated energy market requires modernisation both of PPC and PPC. Also, remember that what citizens want is choice in public goods. In this direction we must all move together. The level and prices in the provision of services are of interest to citizens. The creation of new jobs in the energy market is of interest to the citizens. Attracting with good rewards from young scientists from abroad is of interest to citizens. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as long as you stick politically together over the past few decades, you are the joy of the government, I wonder whether, as a point in the constructive opposition, the government's opposition must finally take on him. I am referring, of course, to economic and everyday matters. Finally, I should like to mention a few words about the Mediterranean, a project which, together with Acheloos, must go ahead. We all have to go through this together. Itolocarnania has an aqueous stock of 2 billion cubic water. We can make use of the 250 million cubics and keep Thessaly from deserting. In this we may be together. The data changed, the studies changed. You made a mistake and you did it. You prevented the scholars from taking into account Acheloos in the management of the waters of Thessaly. It is time for the current government to correct this mistake. And all together, we need to take advantage of these EUR 600 million, which are essentially left on shelves. And history will not allow us this EUR 600 million to remain indisposed. You've got a lot of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u221	Be well. Thank you very much. We keep going with New Democracy and we're quiet. Mr Athanasios Ljupis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the majority of Greek citizens did not know until last summer the bad situation in which PPC had reached, as well as the problematic situation in the field of energy in Greece in general. In fact, PPC had been allowed to decline a month with a month. In the first quarter of 2019 PPC recorded losses before taxes of more than 230 million euros with production units largely obsolete and polluting. The network was not maintained as it should, resulting in the known problems and the known power cuts. One of the first initiatives taken by the current government was the abolition of power auctions in order to stop this financially inconsistent situation for PPC. Within a short period of time the new government, with targeted actions, managed to reverse the negative climate and thus PPC's share tripled and, of course, to upgrade the company's creditworthiness. Today's bill makes significant improvements to PPC's organisational issues. Its way of operating is drastically changing to modernise and rely on a corporate governance model. The new provisions will bring down PPC's costs and ensure its viability. In this situation, the recruitment process of workers is changing, with a working relationship of indefinite duration. The recruitment initiative naturally belongs to the board of directors, but the whole process is governed by absolute transparency: public notice, legality check and ex post validation by the AACC. Those who are no longer employed in PPC will be permanent and their employment contracts will be governed by labour law, generally applicable to the private sector. With a clear aim to make PPC a modern big company, it also changes the way it selects its senior and senior executives so that they can come from the private sector as well and not leave PPC's specialised staff in the private sector. In particular, the Deputy CEOs, the directors and directors will not have the current headlines in their remuneration until now, so that PPC can attract competent managers. In the context of the reduction of costs and the more efficient utilization of its employees and its subsidiaries, voluntary exit procedures, internal mobility or transfer of employees to the narrow or wider public sector are provided for. There is currently no proper distribution of employees between the companies in the group. For example, while the DEDDIE as network manager has increased needs for technical staff, out of six and a half thousand people employed, only two thousand are technicians for some 7.5 million benefits. In the process of internal mobility, workers will be better exploited to meet the real needs of each subsidiary. Another measure to restructure the company's finances is the reduction of the power reduction for workers and pensioners, from 75%, currently in force, at 30% and only on the piece, which concerns consumption rather than other charges, which we usually see in the accounts. Another big issue that PPC has been facing in recent years is the large unpaid debts of municipal businesses. Today's bill also provides a common responsibility for the municipalities to repay the sums due. Another important chapter is the provisions concerning the PSC. The privatisation of a company will contribute to the development of competition in the gas market. At first level, the company is divided into the PPC of infrastructure and the PPC of international projects. With regard to the infrastructure PPA, which includes gas distribution companies, 65% passes to the HSE, while 35% remains in ELPE. The GOI undertakes to find an investor through a tender for the proportion that it is responsible for. On the contrary, the PPA of international projects takes over all the major interconnecting projects of Greece with neighbouring countries, such as Italy and Bulgaria at the moment. Their own percentage, now held by the GOI, will be transferred to the Greek State in order to ensure full in the public interest. The part of the supply of gas will be taken over by the DEPA Trade which will also be privatised through the HIPI by 65%. But it's important that the security patterns are also in place. The Energy Regulatory Authority shall be responsible for not granting any applicant for the certification of a natural gas distribution network, if it considers that there is a risk for the energy supply of the country or Member State of the European Union. Ultimately, the new companies of the PPA will ensure attraction of investors and the activation of competition, with a far-reaching gain for the consumer, which will have more good and more economic services of natural gas. The last chapter relates to renewable energy sources. Our Prime Minister has pledged that the country will achieve the complete degree by 2028. The New Democracy remains consistent in targeting environmentally friendly policies and today's bill brings us closer to the goals we have set. By 2030 electricity needs in our country will come 60% from RES. This is why important steps are being taken to attract more investment and to create new RES stations. The non-interconnected islands of the country cannot place more wind stations and photovoltaic for this reason, and the creation of hybrids that allow energy storage is promoted. The provisions in question are also of particular importance to electric power-driven and to the creation of a power-driven network. A major initiative of today's bill is the allowable legalisation and placement of photovoltaics in high productivity rural land, but less than 1% of the total agricultural area per regional unit. In addition, crops, which must be protected and even whole areas, will be excluded in order to ensure the country's agricultural production. The country's energy policy is one of the important issues we have to deal with. Greece is able to find itself at the top of the European Union in the use of renewable energy sources. The current government's commitment to renewables will bring immediate effect, environmental protection and development prospects for the country as a whole. Today's bill is the vehicle, which will lead us to the reform of the energy map and signals a new era for Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House forty-eight students and students and four educational attendants from the 2nd Priveza High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Pericles Mandasse has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to reach a conclusion in today's debate on the bill, I think we all have to discuss and agree on some real facts. Finally, what was PPC’s real situation? In April 2019, the report of the sworn accountants ordered by the previous government of SYRIZA gave some results. Did PPC have, or had, a viability problem? Did PPC have or had no liquidity problem? Lost or not lost about 90% of its stock exchange value in the last five years? Did the previous SYRIZA government lose or lose 600m euros from NOME auctions? Is the competition in recent years created, is it in our country? Do you know that there are dozens of private companies right now selling electricity services in our country? Why are these services cheaper than PPC? Does anyone know? Why have these companies raised about 20% of PPC's clientele so far? They have, because they sell the service cheaper to the consumer. And why are they selling her cheaper? Because they have much lower costs than their operation - this is because of the human resources - they do not have such huge costs as PPC has, and at the same time, they have been favoured by the NOME auctions, which you have imposed, so that they can buy the electricity cheaper than it costs PPC. And Mr. Skourletis came here to tell us about private monopolies, when you raised all the competitors of PPC and became the company to lose customers, to lose stock value, to lose income, and therefore, to create all these problems cumulatively. And then, the most ignorant citizen in this country if he sits and studies all these results, he will finally see that the problems are huge. We all know that PPC is a time bomb, which, if it was digging, would take a ball of Greek banks, would take a ball of almost the entire economy of the country. So that's what SYRIZA would want? What about the workers then, ladies and gentlemen? What if PPC went bankrupt? Would the government, by the Greek taxpayers, have the money to cover all these damages, to cover the wages of these people? Was that moral? And that was right to do? So what was it supposed to be? What was the new government supposed to do, the new minister? To do exactly what we would all do if we were in place, namely to draw up a plan for the reconstruction of the Public Power Corporation, which was a plan from the first day on which it was implemented, and the results were immediately seen. How did they look right away? Because when it came to reason that we had to correct the problems and started to take action, such as the new pricing policy, to plan solutions, immediately the stock exchange value of PPC increased by three times. Is that what happened? The markets, that is, accidentally saw that PPC could suddenly become viable and acquire liquidity and be able to have greater market value and invest in it? Apparently not. They saw that now, there is a plan from a new government, which can create conditions for the development of the company. Why are we talking - and don't forget that - about an anonymous company. We have lived in the last ten years of the crisis, the fact, so many anonymous companies in our country have collapsed, officials on the road and people on the road 30 and forty and fifty years trying to find work and rebuild their lives. You are sowing intimidation in the world and in the workers that they are supposed to lose their jobs. Where did you see that PPC employees would lose their jobs? Tell us where you saw this. Are not all employees guaranteed by the bill by voluntary way, either by transferring to the public services or by taking part in the new liability procedures? Aren't all workers guaranteed with this? Why are you responding to new recruitments and inadmissibility to new recruitments? I don't understand that. So much of a state? Do you remember what's going on outside in the real economy? Do you remember what happens to anonymous companies, the rest of which exist in our country? Have you considered the agony of all these people working? Why so long with perpetuality? Response to intake of strains from the market. But, so well now political intolerance to the right, scientists, people with experience, people with degrees and anything that can get inside the company and lift it up? And how will a market man come to work in PPC if you don't give them proper supplies? Do you know that right now private companies have milked all PPC employees and made them their managers, to have the information, to have their experience, to exploit all this network they have set up? So we, PPC, what will she do? Is she going to stay like this and accept and do nothing about anything that's going on around her? Can you not support aid, strong support for renewable energy? The share of RES in our country is 3%. Do you agree with that? We have a country with huge natural wealth that we can exploit every natural resource. Aren't PPC going to win this? Won't it win costs if we produce electricity at less cost? Don't you understand? What, then, have you supposed to be and environmentally friendly and protecting the environment? We understand, then, that all of the narratives you present are politically narratives. You can leave it with a little bit. I have listened very carefully to many of SYRIZA's colleagues, and Mr Pappa, who has attacked the Prime Minister, allegedly for a political transaction with Mr Father. Who, Mr. Papapas, who at the same time, Mr. Kammenos for SYRIZA's infamous agreement, was going out and complained about the political agreement, the Prime Minister himself, Mr. Tsipras? Where were you then when he told you that you placed his MPs on the ballots to vote for the Ambassadors' Agreement? Are you talking about political agreements under the table? Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that the only person capable of an eighty-year-old operational, efficient, qualified in our country is Mr Flamouraris. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much. Mr Ioannis Callianos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, having listened to the public views of SYRIZA, SYRIZA MPs on the last days in committees, televisions and here in Parliament today, I have the impression that we are in the 1980s and not in 2019. I heard about a sale by PPC, for the application of neoliberal recipes by the government and so many other, off-site and time-consuming comments, which show that the political reason of the Officerial Response remains stuck in ideals that the evolution of reality itself has overtaken them. Nor in the 1980s are we, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, nor do you still have the luxury of swinging our fingers especially when it comes to PPC. A company was handed over to you with a profit of EUR 100,000, 000, and you delivered it with a billion losses and arrears of EUR 2.7 billion. As you can see, the figures speak for themselves and I think they explain why some people might have to answer for this at some point. In all of this, add the redemption from PPC of EDS in Skopje and you will have a picture of what political irresponsibility means, but also political courage, because when you come and blame the government today for trying to rescue PPC from your own irresponsible policies. So you are now talking about selling out, while you yourself and your policy have despised PPC and you know it very well. How else can things be when you agreed to reduce PPC's share from 90% to 50%, of course, in five years' time for zero financial compensation. To achieve this, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you have applied the electricity auctions, namely the famous NOMEs, for which you celebrated at the time. You celebrated, which the taxpayer lignite plants paid for power generation, which PPC would then sell through the auctions below costs, resulting in the specific fact that EUR 600,000,000 for its competitors being lost. That's a success! And all this to satisfy your ideas, by abolishing Law 4273/2014 on the creation of the small PPC - so we said then - the sale of which would bring 2 billion euros to the Public Power Corporation funds and an additional 1.5 billion euros to the Greek economy by the contractor's obligation to build Melitis II plant in Florina. It was also a model that had been successfully implemented in 1999 by the Italian public electricity company, ENEL, as it is said, which managed to expand to forty countries by quadrupling its revenues. On the other hand, the NOME model has not been based on any previous successful example, but something that you have not, it has not hit you. However, you have done so, with complete failure, by charging PPC 600,000, 000 damages, and now from the headquarters of Anti-Population, you are accusing the Government of New Democracy, which, of course, is called on to collect the broken ones you have left. This bill, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, is coming to do, collect the broken ones you left. It is a legislative initiative, which aims to address the bad practices of the past, but also to resolve rapidly and effectively critical issues relating to energy. A key pillar of the draft law is the modernisation of PPC, which is the next necessary step on the road to reassurance, following the first rescue measures implemented by the Ministry from August until now. It is not possible for PPC to be in a competitive environment anymore and to continue to operate at rules and rates that prevent it from competing, because this at the end of the day also costs it. We don't think this is so hard to understand. We do not think anyone needs to have ten doctorates to understand this simple thing that I said before. It is a cost which the Greek taxpayer is asked to pay every time and you know that, too, very well. In the context of the modernisation and increase of PPC's competitiveness, therefore, there is, among other things, the lifting of permanentity. It is something that has been implemented, I remind you, and the OTE. The bill also contains the roadmap for privatising PPA, which will achieve further liberalisation of the gas market. In the new reality, which will be created by rapid degreasing, natural gas will be the bridge fuel, so I would call it, until the best use of renewable energy sources in support of which the bill contains concrete measures, in order to achieve the national objective, which by 2030 is 35% of energy needs to be covered by renewables. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the basis for a framework for electricity is laid down and arrangements are promoted for the energy upgrading of public buildings and for the creation of a competitive framework of procedures for energy efficiency measures. Contrary to the previous government, which spoke about the ecology, but did not have the slightest plan for deprivation, the New Democracy actually proves that it is interested in the environment. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is regrettable that the Civic Opposition chooses, instead of first making an elementary self-criticism about the situation that led PPC, its inappropriateness with regard to liberation, but also its hypocrisy about privatisation, to insist on a criticism that, not only is constructive, but is essentially, out of place and time, as I said before. However, the more you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, continue to deny the reality that you yourself have created, the more you confirm that you continue to see politics as a means of satisfying your illusions in a fantasy world, in your world and not as a means of solving real problems in the real world. And your illusions you know very well that they were paid well and at an expensive price to Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, too. Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the country needs a modern energy policy. Today's draft law lays the foundations for modernising the Greek energy market in the context of the single European market. The development of the country requires a strong, modern and dynamic energy market, a market in which legality, economic freedom and healthy competition are guaranteed. The previous government brought PPC to the forefront of the collapse. But we cannot remain disobedient in the face of this danger. Such a development would have disastrous effects for the national economy and thus for the Greek society. This bill creates the conditions for a competitive, modern and efficient PPC, for the benefit of the national economy, businesses and, above all, consumers. PPC is freed from the constraints of the TECs operating regime, which prevented it, while it is exposed to strong competition operating on equal terms with their competitors on the free market. Its corporate governance is strengthened and its functioning is released. It reduces its costs and ensures its long-term viability. The aim is to stop following developments sticking to past attitudes and practices, to be able to stand up to circumstances, to be flexible and functional, to perform its development role for Greece and - why not? - to the future and to the Balkans. In addition, in the context of the national energy saving objective, legislative intervention in the ELECTRA programme is very important. This programme aims to upgrade the energy efficiency of central government buildings. At the same time and in proportion to the "I save by private individuals" programme, the "ELEKTRA" programme for general government bodies concerns interventions in the housing of the building and in electromechanical installations and in general interventions which contribute to the energy upgrading of buildings and to their static support. We are strengthening the effectiveness of the programme and broadening its scope by the general government bodies. We achieve this by increasing the available funding and participation of the beneficiaries in the repayment of investment loans. In fact, in this kind of energy upgrade programme, which will be completed in two years' time, this House building will also be subject to a minimum 30% reduction in energy consumption and at the same time a 39% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions on an annual basis. In this context, we are also strengthening the role of energy services companies. We are thus contributing to the development of a new business and a new market. This makes it easier to mobilise private capital in a sector with great potential in our country, which will greatly contribute to the ambitious objectives of the national energy and climate plan, which we are completing in the next period. Another important innovation in the bill is the modernisation of the electromobility framework. The development of electricity mobility is a prerequisite for the energy transition to a low-carbon economy. This will have significant energy and environmental benefits. This also needs a legal and regulatory framework for the development of charging stations for electric vehicles, but also for the operation of the electricity market. So with the proposed bill we organise the charging market for electric vehicles, we ensure the efficient development of charging points for electric vehicles and we define the roles and responsibilities of the stakeholders. In this way, we are laying the foundations for the development of electricity transport in the country, the reduction of dependence on oil, the protection of the environment, with all the benefits for development. The regulation of these issues opens the way for the direct entrepreneurial activity of entities for the rapid development of infrastructure and for the definition of the role of the State in strengthening and supporting these actions, in order to implement directly the necessary investments. Already the President of Parliament is implementing the policy of adopting clean energy transition practices. In this context, the choice of rental of electric vehicles is given to all Members of the national and European Parliament in order to convey a strong signal of awareness to Greek citizens about the need for clean movements and environmental protection. First of all, we must do all that we are voting on. The aim is to achieve a rapid development of clean transport within the context of the wider carbonisation targets of the country's energy mix. Ladies and gentlemen, the good functioning of the energy market, environmental protection, sustainable development are major challenges of modern times. In recent years, our country has remained behind in these areas, and today we are experiencing the consequences. From now on, Greece will be at the forefront of the European battle against climate change, as our Prime Minister has, after all, committed himself to meeting with the UN Secretary-General in New York. With the reforms promoted by the New Democracy Government, we hope that at the end of the four-year period Greece will be a country much different from the one we received. We are creating a new legal framework, a new framework of stability, so that soon Greece will become a normal, modern Western country and the first results already appear. The first twenty bills that New Democracy brought in within four months are only the beginning. We continue dynamically all together for the modern, creative Greece that we dream of, for the present and future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that a request was made for a roll-call vote on Articles 3, 4, 9, 16, 17, 24, 42 and 44 by Members of the SYRIZA. I therefore propose that the debate and vote on the rest of the articles should be concluded this evening and that the roll-call vote should take place tomorrow at the end of the topical and urgent debate before the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, about 2 p.m. There's no objection. Mr. George Tsipras has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me inform you, because there is recent publication of official documents and because many New Democracy Members have mentioned the share lost by PPC under the NOME regime, that a 15.5% share has been lost in thirty-two months and today, within two months after the increase in tariffs, a 4.5% has been lost. Make the calculations. And yet the new, increased invoices to consumers have not arrived. But because we probably won't agree on what PPC was in 2015, what it was in 2019 and what it was today, let's go to the things we can agree on. You want to privatize everything in the field of energy. First let's say that. It's not a shame. Do you want to do it? Let it be said clearly. And the question is, what exactly is that based on? Is it based on a European model? Is it based on any international experience? Is it based on some privatization experience in Greece? I think that it is not based on any of this because, if it were based, you would have a very opposite policy. It is based first of all on an idealism and secondly on your political and economic decision to sell everything out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u231	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u232	You're accusing us of being convicted, and you're accusing us of being left behind. So let's see who's left behind. But first of all, let me say that the policy pursued in the field of energy - we are supposed to agree - in one way or another, should ensure better conditions of competition, better prices and more developed infrastructure and energy security. You'll fail all three of them. You'll bring in much worse conditions. And I start: 2001: California's Energy Crisis. It's known. The World Bank report. They're known prisoners. Over the last fifteen years, more than thirty countries have started reforms in the energy sector. Typically, these included restructuring, privatisation and more competition, but this has changed today. This was in 2001, but this has changed today, because prices were launched, we had a lot of black out, we had bankruptcys of electricity distribution companies and we had efforts to renationalise, deprivationism that accompanied the project's failure in California. And politicians around the world are looking for solutions. In California, they seek, among other things, the renationalisation of the network. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, George Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This was in 2001. You guys aren't as big a neoliberal as Californians. You're tougher. Let me tell you, by the way, that a recent October post at Los Angeles Times said that two million people were never left with no black out electricity. To come to our own, closer. What is the international experience? Throughout the first world, the so-called West, the United States in particular and Europe, there are hundreds of examples of renationalisation or concessions in regions, in the public sector, in any case, of dismantling a series of networks, not just energy. What's the point? The one to which the World Bank referred earlier: Price launching, stagnation and degeneration of infrastructure and incomplete energy security. What is the case in other countries of the European Union? In most European countries either the energy producer or the national gas or electricity manager, or the distribution companies, public control exists whether it is an absolute public control or a majority package. Even where there is no, there are practices of gold shares or practices of particular minority rights, so as to ensure lower prices, infrastructure development and energy security. What is the experience of privatisation in Greece? I will not talk about air transport and a steadfast privatisation that the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, is taking on, where you have replaced a State monopoly by a private monopoly, even causing the reaction of DGCom, the Competition Committee of the European Union. I'm going to telecommunications now. "My philosophy" - says Mr Hatzidakis - "I am Kyriakos Pierracakis", that is, as you do not ask him how the invoices of "COSMOTE", "WIND" and more, so in future I want you not to ask me about PPC's invoices. First of all, let us inform the Minister that for PPC tariffs, we will continue to ask him why he obviously has the responsibility, especially as he increases, but let us go and see what happened in the telecommunications sector Mr. Hadjidakis would like to have the place of Mr. Pierracakis. "Cathedral" 13-11-19-recent is - "Second more accurate country in the European Union is Greece in nominal broadband charges for fixed telephony connections". A study by the Community was presented a few days ago and shows on average Greece as the country with the highest charges, after those of Belgium. That's in terms of prices. Great price drop, great success! As regards infrastructure: ‘Belgium, Greece, Cyprus and Ireland countries at the end of last year, 2018, did not provide any speed connections of 1Gbps and only two countries, Greece and Cyprus, they did not even offer 200Mbps. "View" 15/3/2019: "Uragos Greece in broadband connections through fibre optics. Last place in the thirty-seven OECD countries. These were the results of privatisation, in a space that was not even a natural monopoly, such as in the gas networks, of OTE. Congratulations, congratulations! You mention this as an example of successful privatisation and many Members of Parliament. This poor experience in telecommunications you want to transfer it to the area of the networks. But let's note one thing. Recently, the Prime Minister - "Catherine" 26-11-19 - has called for price reductions in telecommunications companies. The Prime Minister himself! So is Mr. Pierracakis. The same thing a few weeks ago the Prime Minister against bank charges. The banks - you will like me - have regularly written it in terms of prices, so have the telecommunications companies. But the question is what model you want. You want a model of completely fleeing, launched prices, zero infrastructure and even the Prime Minister begging, to surprise companies to lower prices. As far as telecommunications is concerned, I am tabling a motion for a resolution on this subject. [[At this point, the Member, George Tsipras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But let's go to the experience of the gas network itself. We, as you know, bought the share of 'SHELL' in 2018. What for? Because we're prisoners? Let me tell you why we bought it. Why did the Attica and NCA companies where since 2001 had 49% - take note of not even 51% - but of the management of SHELL? Do you understand why it happened in Attica? It only reached 30% of the activation, i.e. in the most densely populated area in the country, which is the smallest cost of expanding the network. I don't want to talk about mountainous areas, remote provinces, etc. Where exactly is your full privatisation model for both PPC and the networks based and that this will ensure lower prices, better competition and better infrastructure? Nowhere!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u233	And if we succeed, what are you going to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u234	I tell you what international experience is and that it is not based anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u235	Because you asked!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u236	You're saying we're going back. You go back to a failed neoliberalism in the 1990s that has failed all over the world and especially here has failed more than anywhere else!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u237	Good wines, they say!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u238	Please leave the dialogue!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u239	I come to other 'wine's' now, such as the issue of most and better paid jobs. Well, on the subject of'more' I do not want to say about the record of redundancies, which you have already won within two months. I come to what you're doing. What piece of legislation is in line with the best paid jobs so far? You're four months government. The multi-legislative bill provides for a lot of convenience for businesses to be able to come out of sectoral contracts in order to make it worse for workers to be paid, and the PPC bill also provides for new entrants to come out of a collective agreement. In other words, two legislations basically provide for worse paid jobs! Let me tell you where the 'better paid' fits. The best paid get stuck in the hundreds and possibly thousands tomorrow - tomorrow for Golden Boys, with liberalized wages, outside a single wage and, of course, without an ADP. That's where the best paid jobs stick. And two last issues. First of all, in Amendment No 92 to Article 2 we have an attempt to reduce the guarantees to be paid by suppliers in terms of OTE RES network costs, which the consumer pays anyway. I imagine the Minister knows that this framework has been tightened after the 'ENERGA' and 'POWER HELLAS' scandal. I guess he knows. Why are we going back to the previous ones? Do we want new 'ENERGA' and 'POWER HELLAS'? Secondly, we have a transparency recital in Article 4 as far as the priority for electricity distribution is concerned. In other words, while a law or a regulatory framework should be given priority as it is given to all the countries of Europe, the priority for the distribution of electricity is now up to a Minister's decision, as in a Minister's decision, even without an environmental study signed by the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, the distribution will be decided on here by Mr Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u240	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u241	Then let us completely abolish the legislation and make all the ministers decide! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u242	Be well. Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement now has the floor, Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u243	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u244	Good evening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u245	I will start my position by denouncing the MEP of SYRIZA Mr Dimitris Papadimoulis. I promised the Committee on Revision of the Constitution that in relation to Article 5(2), which proposed that a member of the SYRIZA be re-examined and agreed - because there had been a bad precedent in the previous parliament - that the position of the Change Movement is clear: we are voting in favour of Article 5(2), amending it, for the freedom of sexual self-determination. I said that anyone who dares to leak would personally and brand him in the House. So I denounce the man who dared this morning to say with a tweet he made or a statement he made - I do not know exactly what - that we voted against the revision of Article 5(2). I denounce him personally and he must be ashamed of what he does! Now, Ministers, I would like to begin with something I mentioned this morning in my speech that a Parliamentary representative of the Change Movement today is to strongly criticise the way in which the governors were appointed to hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we took over from you in 2009, and the situation we received in hospitals was a situation of total dissolution. We have contributed them with struggle and effort, and then, in the practice of days, you show a completely party logic, condemned by you when you were in opposition, and you show a loss of remembrance, you do not remember what you have done in this field. In 2009, we received a disgusting situation in hospitals and we had stressed as a major threat the lack of administrative capabilities because it is a very difficult thing to run a hospital, public or private. You went to a logic that is being trampled by cartoonists today and by your newspapers. Minister, I was expecting you to come and talk, because when I hear you talk, I sympathize. I'm telling you straight away. You will see, as Mr Arvanitides has said, in the morning and now, we criticise your government initiative, but you are one of the few ministers, who when we hear you understand that you have received a very loaded, heavy portfolio and that you have in front of you a fight. Somewhere you remind me of myself in 2009 with the insurance. However, I have said here from July - August - in our first positions, ladies and gentlemen, that many ministers in the way they act, about say to the Greek people that it was enough to change political ties and parliamentary ties to get everything done. It's with a lasting smile and you feel like they're so happy they're becoming ministers. The question is, however, to solve no problems. I told you - your parliamentary representative, Mr Lebanese, has heard this from me several times and we have said it in personal discussions - that always in government changes, after a few months, the citizen considers that the problems he has caused to him, not that he has found them. If you don't say what you've received, the citizen will never know what it is you're trying to do. So the smiling ministers are a problem for their party, for themselves and for the country, as it will prove soon, because their smile shows that they have no conscience about what they have undertaken. The immigration, Kinetta, the insurance funds I think are very typical examples of our homeland problems. Before I say my views, which will be concise, I hope that it is beyond brief and concise - I would like to make a reference, Minister - and I address to you - to what we have read, which we are not space experts, such as you who now have five months, such as Mr Famelos or Mr Maniatis, who have, in any case, passed through this ministry. I have no such experience, but I used in my election speech a statement from Mr. Yiannis Maniatis, who said what our government, the Samara - Venizelos government in 2014, has delivered to the next, namely you, by the SYRIZA government. With the distance I take from an object, which I have never personally dealt with, I am conveying opinions from my fellow Members, who have used in my election speech, and I am in a certain amount, and that sometimes I have asked the relevant questions to the then Minister, Mr Stathakis. He says: “First, do they have the courage to talk about power values when their foreign policy at PPC has resulted in the debts of the citizens to PPC from 1.4 billion in 2014 to 2.8 billion today?” He continues: "Second, no PASOK government has handed over to corpses - speculative funds to PPC the citizens' debts. The SYRIZA government did so." It also states: ‘Third, while reducing PPC’s cost in 2015-2016 by EUR 800 million, due to the cheap oil price, no decrease in PPC’s invoice has occurred to the citizens. Fourthly, they voted against our own legislation on the social domestic tariff in 2010, in which we incorporated more than six hundred thousands of families and then presented it, as government, as their own. Fifth, they presented the energy stock exchange as their own reform when we handed it over in 2014, and made three years to legislate. Sixth, PPC was received at a stock exchange of EUR 2.5 billion and became only EUR 400 million today." I think that, Minister, you have said so yourself. He continues: "They have delayed two years the electrical interconnection of the Cyclades, which we have announced, and thus the public pays for services of general interest in excess of EUR 150 million. They extend for two years the electrical interconnection of Crete, which would be ready in 2020, and the accounts of the citizens additional to EUR 800 million.’.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u246	And with national resources.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u247	He also states: "They took 24% of IPTO into an investor with just 300 million euros, while at the same time giving him a deferred amendment to the majority shareholder rights!!''.'. That is with many wonderful things, ladies and gentlemen. And it continues: "They dragged PPC into a competition of old, uneconomic lignite units, with the result that there was no interested party and that the competition would be barren. They have completely ignored the upcoming increase in emissions of pollutants, from 5 euros in 2014 to 22 euros. The "small" PPC, which was an attempt to do something that was very foul in terms of privatization, was in any case about that project, which SYRIZA canceled when he took the governance and came to give 50% of her clientele free of charge, while taking 2,5 billion to the "small" PPC. "I delivered them," says man, "a company with profits of 90 million in 2014 and became damaged by 900 million, when they handed over a few months ago. They charged PPC with 1 billion euros, as its administration confessed, due to their foreign policy on wholesale energy sales NOME and the special RES account. Finally, he says, "It cost PPC and the national economy more than 7 billion the SYRIZA administration." That's what you've got. That's why, when you talk, you're intense. That is why you said about a committee of inquiry. It is now time that we, as parliamentarians and opposition party, see what you are doing to respond to this great problem. If we asked you for magic solutions, you and your parliamentary representative and your Members would be right to blame us for irresponsible attitude. But that's not what we're doing. We have drawn up a path of a responsible opposition, based on your facts and will either try to correct or save. I will make a four-point selection of what George Arvanitides said, and I repeat that I will try to be concise, that is to say, brief and concise. We are not wrong when we tell you that in the face of such a problem - as we claim to be, and we hear you present it with tension on the permanent committees of this House, on the media this morning, when you took the floor - you have two basic elements to deal with. You lack the so-called 'business plan', that is, a concrete integrated plan for PPC. The man told you ten times. You also lack an overall energy plan, because, alas, if we see PPC as the only theme of energy. So you miss two things. They're missing from the National Representation. Because when we are called upon to bear weight, we need to know what these are and what the prospect is. When we have a lack of two plans, with the luck of not being government MPs, we can call alpha or beta weakness here and not make general positions, as the Members of the government are obliged to do, by supporting their government. This is where we say you miss those two. You haven't presented them to us. Secondly, we stress that from what you have said, your design involves a violent frustration. The substitution of lignite units by private units will become too violent. We have said - George Arvanitides was very clear about this - that this poses two dangers. A risk associated with the economy and a second risk are the possible dependencies of replacing lignite in a violent way from natural gas. We underline that and we stop here. Thirdly, what is it that caught you, a liberal politician, to want to do the PPA of international projects state-of-the-art for a transitional period? Your template is different. The model of public enterprises is not successful in Greece, but everywhere. That is why privatisation was necessary. That's why the privatisations didn't get mad. At least as far as our own terms are concerned, they have always been reasoned, balanced and balanced as possible. What do you want here and that's what you're going to do in the state? This is a question and a political one and a management one. Finally, you have a tendency - the New Democracy generally has this - to demagogize, turning around the issue of the permanentity of those working for the public. Do you know that there has been no permanentity in PPC since 2012? In the morning I heard you, although the issue was the control of constitutionality, refer to it and relocate it by the Members of the Chamber. What's new? Since 2012 there has been this. On the contrary, we in the morning told you that the limitations that go beyond a limit are concerned. I hope that in the answer you have given, because your explanatory statement is not sufficient, you will also give the historic interpreter of the Constitution, namely the one who will make a historical interpretation, looking at what we have said here, what the explanatory statement says and what you said, to provide supplies for these restrictions, namely that they do not violate the principle of proportionality. Otherwise, there will be problems in the future. I quote, first of all, this data from our colleague, Mr Giannis Maniatis, what PPC company was in 2014, early in 2015, when our government handed over, and how SYRIZA handed it over. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I'm closing up with this. In the country's biggest problem, it makes sense for a Minister to respond with measures that look at its liquidity, although the violent demilitarisation has indicated that it also involves the contradiction: How do you have a liquidity problem and a difference between cash adequacy and accounts? When you have a problem like that, you're very careful how you change a source of energy with another much more expensive. So we are telling you that, in order to be able to monitor, we lack your general view of the energy issues of the country and, of course, your operational plan as a whole for PPC. Instead, we see concrete measures which also contradict each other's regulations and do not give what we need. What does Greece need, ladies and gentlemen? It needs an organized policy and PPC because, if PPC collapses, we agree, the Greek economy collapses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u248	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERY VENIZELOU", forty-four students and students and two teachers from the High School of Aichea. The House welcomes you. [[Applause]] We should also welcome Mr. Vinci from the New Democracy, who is waiting patiently.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u249	Thank you very much, Mr President. As you said, I have listened patiently since the morning, but I have heard something that cannot be left out of business. We have heard it all, but we have heard the word 'fakes'. And it goes a lot, I think, to call us Mr. Skourlet and liars. Let me remind him of some of the good things that have been said in the previous period of his speech: 'The abolition of the memorandum with a law', 'No house in the hands of a banker', 'Samaras will increase VAT', 'HYPIA is an unfair law, it is not corrected, it is abolished, 'the minimum wage at EUR 751', 'No house in the hands of a banker', 'No house in the hands of a banker', 'Samaras will increase VAT', he has received 13% and he has taken it to 24%, 'The referendum to leave the compound', YES became 'the brake on all privatizations of the airports', 'the banks will go to public control, no case for capital control', 'go back, Madame Merkel', which he said many times said 'Alexis the best boy for bishops'. So let us move on because time is relentless. This bill is part of the country's overall energy planning. It is about PPC, which has a central role in the development effort that our country is doing today. The main axes are, moreover, other than the consolidation and modernisation of the Greek energy market. Moreover, the way the international market is structured and the modern conditions of competition make the need to house the largest electricity company in Greece unnecessarily. Isn't that right, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation? Or is there any other solution, such as, say, the one you have been applying for so many years? The solution reached by PPC a step ahead of total destruction. Indeed, I have listened very carefully today to the criticism of this draft law. I am amazed at the criticism that has been made from the point of view of Officerial Opposition. If anyone hears you, he will think that you have never ruled this country, that you have never made decisions on the status and functioning of PPC. The total energy planning of the country was successful, in your view, while you were government? I will not respond to this because the truth is recorded, both by official indicators and by bodies supervising PPC's financial data. Is it not a fact that the auditor placed by your own government raised a serious issue of the company's viability? This view was, of course, changed on 24 September. It also changed the vow, the share tripled and PPC's creditworthiness upgraded. The situation has changed because, as soon as we took over the country's governance, we quickly developed a rescue plan, such as the change in tariff policy. We promoted two main legislative initiatives relating to services of general interest, where the Ministry of Finance gave PPC around EUR 200 million, and the abolition of NOMEs. It is a truth, which clearly demonstrates that the country's energy map needs radical changes, because the introvertibility and indifference regime for the international market you have tried to impose simply did not work. Of course, you can cover this with the left-wing cloak and the supposed protection of labour rights. And I ask: in the context of the protection of workers' rights, have you led PPC to the edge of the cliff, playing with the jobs and fate of so many people? You have tried, at the same time, once again to mislead your own audience, since your actions over the years have proved that you are not so against the market after all. We all remember that in 2018 you agreed and granted the sale of four lignite plants, while you were the ones who made the privatisation of the ICES. But political instability and ideological inconsistency are notions that have always described you and it is this political instability that led the largest Greek company to a regime of devaluation and marginal collapse. I would remind you that you rejected the Samara plan for "little" PPC. When, of course, the core of the Union's obligations narrowed and the European Union's cheques imposed an opening of the energy market and a reduction in PPC's share capital, then you changed your mind. Thus, you had to sell power to PPC’s competitors and even at a price below costs. Think we'd have done it. In this way you have managed to turn our largest company into a systemic risk, which has come to threaten the entire Greek economy, and has caused a serious crisis in the electricity sector of the country. The bill under discussion includes a package of measures aimed at modernising PPC and its sustainable development, far away from past practices and attitudes. With the time being, therefore, flexible recruitments of permanent staff are being established by abolishing permanentity. However, the AACC will monitor the legality of the AACC. It is also planned to abolish the durability for the directors-general and to introduce incentives to attract market participants in order to limit the leakage to PPC’s competitors. At the same time, a plan is introduced for targeted voluntary exits at an exclusive cost of PPC, without any charge on the taxpayers and their insurance funds, because PPC will reduce its costs. The bill also provides for the abolition of the existing preferential framework for PPC’s employees’ and pensioners’ tariffs. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law introduces provisions aimed at returning the country to a path that is sustainable and environmentally friendly. Energy is, after all, an extremely important branch of our economy. Thus, a rapid and effective response to the issues relating to the energy planning of the country will play a key role in the development of the Greek economy. It is no coincidence, moreover, that the draft law opens the way to privatising the IPCC, a measure which will allow for further liberalisation of the gas market. Here is hypocrisy: SYRIZA today, who disagrees, is good to tell us why he kept it as a memorandum obligation, but also why he promoted the privatisation of the CRS. The regulation of the draft law on increasing renewable energy sources has a predominant role, since, on the basis of the national energy and climate plan, renewable energy sources by 2030 should constitute 35% of the country's energy mix. There is no doubt that with this bill the energy map of our country is changing sharply on the basis of European and international cheques. The Greek energy market is remodeled and modernised. She's gaining extroversion and she's ready to win a place on the international business arena. At the same time, provisions are not omitted, which relate more widely to society, such as a reduction in tariffs for night domestic current of up to 65%. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise the great importance of the new framework for electricity, introduced by this bill. This is a framework for Greek data, since the road to modern transport is now opening, with very low costs and zero pollutants. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill promotes the necessary reforms that will enable our country to change into a modern country, socially advanced and economically free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, too. Mr Nicholas Andreas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate and vote on today's draft law is an extremely important, structural intervention by the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which comes to serve a dual need. Firstly, as you are well aware, since the first day the new Government of New Democracy took office, it has been faced with the tragic economic situation in which the Public Power Corporation has arrived. SYRIZA's irresponsible and extremist policy has led the country's largest public company to total depreciation, with accumulated losses and debts, one step before the lid of total economic catastrophe. We immediately prepared a strategic plan to rescue PPC, through the promotion of the necessary measures and structural interventions, to address the company's liquidity problem, to reorganise and modernise its operation, in line with international standards and modern energy market requirements. So the aim of this intervention, as expressed by today's bill, is to make PPC more flexible, more functional and more effective. And how do we achieve this? First of all, with defoliation, which will make the company not only environmentally friendly by reducing carbon dioxide emissions, but will also benefit it economically, since we are adapting to international conventions and EU law, the violation of which has cost Greek taxpayers millions of euros. At the same time, with today's legislative intervention, we are modernising the company by reducing its operating costs, making it economically viable according to the data that the market imposes. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the timeless distortions and ideologies of the past have made PPC a company hydro-headed, ineffective, dysfunctional and loss-making for the Greek state and taxpayers. And this is changing today, taking out PPC and its human potential from its introvert yesterday into the extroversion of today and tomorrow. It changes by making PPC more competitive vis-à-vis other energy companies, attractive to potential strategic investors in the future and friendly, maintaining its social face and a rational pricing policy for consumers. All these large areas are served by the provisions of today's bill, promoting the voluntary exit programme, without burdening the taxpayers or the insurance funds. With today's bill we are facilitating the internal mobility of PPC workers and, if they want, we are allowing them to move towards the public sector. We are introducing a flexible framework for procurement in order to make the company competitive, in accordance with market rules, and to strengthen PPC's corporate governance. We remove the permanentity for newly recruited PPC employees and make recruitment flexible. We dare and remove the permanentity of PPC’s directors and directors through three years of contracts, while introducing incentives to attract private sector managers. Ladies and gentlemen, this government does not hide the problem under the carpet. This government will not continue SYRIZA's practice to be blinded by a obsolete idea of a state and economy, which ultimately cost the Greek people dear. That is why we dare and act on our commitments. We are finishing with the irresponsible policies of the time of the market monopoly and the logic of the 1980s, and we are laying the foundations for a healthy and sustainable business with this bill, for the benefit of the many and not the few. The second need for the legislative intervention of the Government is that of restructuring the Greek energy market. The relevant provisions for the organisation and supervision of energy markets contribute in this direction, such as the introduction of explicit competence of the Energy Regulatory Authority to ensure the integrity and transparency of the wholesale energy market, the adoption of the target model and operation of the Energy Exchange. Particularly important are the arrangements for privatisation of the PPA and the relevant provisions of the natural gas market, which concern the ownership of the gas distribution networks and the corporate transformation of the PPA. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the most effective corporate transformation of the PPA focuses on the essential reform of the gas market in Greece and is a crucial factor in the economic and social progress of our region. The State's long-term inability to ensure the energy adequacy of the entire Greek territory is undoubtedly an implicating factor in the development of regional and local communities. In particular, the regulation of Article 33 of the draft law on the safeguarding of the energy supply of Crete is considered positive. However, I could not focus on the fact that many regions of our country have not yet joined the energy planning that we should have as a state as a whole. One of the remaining areas in this area is the area of Western Greece, including the Ilias Law, whose citizens I have the honour of representing as a new parliament. I have to say that for many years Western Greece has been out of energy planning successive governments, and as a result, we have fallen considerably in this area, depriving us of the possibility to use significant productive and development resources, which we have as an area. The great challenge is for Elias to acquire natural gas in a liquefied form and through distribution networks to reach consumers, restoring the weakness of the past and offering a significant lever for growth on the side of the business and production forces of our place. The well-appointed interconnection of Elias with natural gas will benefit businesses, will benefit consumers and households, as well as the public structures and services of the law, offering cheap and environmentally friendly energy. In the context of this important project, it is important to create stations with the appropriate tanks at the Tower, where liquefied natural gas will be transported through the terrestrial transport process, as well as the prospect of building liquefied natural gas at the ports, Katakolo and Kyllini. Given the strategic and tourist dimension of these two regions, we all realise that such a project will enable us to supply gas to cruise ships, making these ports of energy and tourist development in the western axis of our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The relevant arrangements contribute in this direction and will further contribute to the expansion of the energy adequacy of the Greek regions and islands of our country. Because what we want is a balanced development of a centre and a region - I end, Mr President - and the energy market is one of the strategic levers, which will ensure the balanced use of our productive advantages. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, we are moving decisively towards the overall reform of our country's energy landscape. We move on to the necessary areas and structural interventions, which are confronted with the economic tide of the Public Power Corporation, laying the foundations for a healthy, sustainable and effective public undertaking. We move on to the necessary changes in the public interest, environmental protection and the Greek consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, too. Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Hetas. You have the floor, Mr Colleague, for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, thank you. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, PPC is a great wound, perhaps the greatest wound, in the history of the ECHO, with very rich, is the truth, past, and it seems with a future pity. All the previous governments, including your own, have failed to exalt the largest production company and not only have failed to rebuild it, I will say that I have also put their hands in bankruptcy for the destruction of the Public Power Corporation. Your government, which would have solutions coming to power for everything, seems to be at a dead end for PPC. And the point, of course, is whether we are talking about failure to manage - it is what we are now living, Mr Hatzidakis - or whether it is an organised plan for the end of the leading public undertaking. So here is the question and the dilemma. You, Mr Hatzidakis, were - 18 July I remember, here we were - you said there would be no increases. On August 23, however, we received the billet with PPC’s invoices on fire. A little bit of an increase in the price of kilowatt, a little of the integration of the carbon dioxide clause, the abolition of the 10% discount on the consequent consumers, came up with the bill. In the first few months of governance, it is clear that you have tried to continue what you have systematically done and as Opposition, Mr Hatzidakis. And it's true what we've been talking about in the first few days here. You have undermined and continuously denounced PPC and prepared the ground to privatise it or - if you still want - the sale of PPC’s fillets. This is not a question for us at all. This construction will not be a two-speed PPC. It's gonna be a four-speed PPC. Maybe it's more than that. Your bill, unfortunately, is not a sustainable development bill, but a bill characterised by underdevelopment and fragmentation. It does not promote the proper use of sources of energy or of course also focuses on the needs of the Greeks. I will be very brief because I do not have much time, Mr Hatzidakis. In addition, our rapporteur has said it and the President of our Party has developed it. I just want us to be honest today. I want you to give me an answer. You will either answer the questions that we ask you or you will tell us I do not answer for specific reasons. We are just beginning to feel a little graphic in this Chamber, putting a few questions at once. Mr. Hatzidakis, today, Wednesday, at 18.25' I ask again: Will we do SYRIZA's bankruptcy investigation? You had it announced beforehand. I've asked you before. You told me "when the bill comes". I'm asking you again. If you wish, as you follow my speech, you answer me. Secondly, what is Mr Bacatsellos doing in the DEDEFOP? If you want, answer us. On which criteria was it chosen? Mr. Villard asked and we didn't get any answers. The bad news is that we don't get any answers to the committees either. The aim is parliamentary dialogue. We're talking. We're asking questions. You're answering. That is the deposition of democracy. Third question, if you would of course like to answer us: Who are these two customers? Tell us. We don't know them. Who are they? They just have customers who buy less than costs? That's all for PPC, Mr. Hatzidakis. I hope that, because you are following - and I really respect you - you will answer questions that we have been asking for many weeks now. Don't say months and I'm overreacting. Now we are going to another issue, ladies and gentlemen. We are going to Mr Chrysochoidis and the famous ultimatum that Mr Chrysochoidis gave to non-governmental organisations. We have been urging you for months since the problem of illegal immigration has eroded, to close off illegal non-governmental organisations, because it is the biggest wound to the problem of illegal immigration. You are now giving a ultimatum of ten days to see which of these are legal and which are not legal. I will say that copying from the New Democracy point of view continues. But it continues in a bad way. It's another episode in the triumph that you have inside the New Democracy on how to deal with illegal immigration. You don't know, too. Every three and a little one succeeds. One is a plan. The other one's changing the plan. Get out of the islands. We should take them to the mainland. We should take them to the mainland. We can also build centers closed. And centers open and centers open. We fly both, three rabbits say about the uninhabited islands. In other words, we have a turtle in an effort to see how we deal with this issue. Here, I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Chrysochide, that the nation is lost. Our country is being Islamized. You need to understand this soon. Our word is not hard, but it is realistic. Our country is being Islamized. Political analysts, not officials of the Greek Solution, say that in a few years, one in ten who will live in this country will support the dogmatic Islam, whether you understand it or not. We have ultimatums, laws, etc. Make up your mind. We have told you what the solutions are as Greek Solution. The solutions are clear. Put an end to this. And start with non-governmental organizations. I come from now on, everyone made ruffles. Everybody's had a hard time at two o'clock. But they had a way. Let's have a little way. Now, we caught the old man, the eighty-year-old man, who today took the channels, who says "I sold a hundred seventy votes, because the Prime Minister promised me to put me in command". I mean, for god's sake! This is a party state. The party state lives and reigns. So where's excellence? Here, excellence becomes the recompense. The perfect ones don't go any further. You don't even keep your pretexts. Party friends, presidents unrelated to health, retired, best friends, associates, whoever wants and who is ours is ours. So your commitments to a state of service, to democracy, to transparency and to reform are going for a long time. Do you remember what you were saying before the election? I have them here. Scripta manent. Ms.Mitsotakis on tweet in November 2017: "I will not tolerate hospital administrations to place failed states who seek slow wages in the public sector." That's what the current Prime Minister said in 2017. And Mr. Georgiadis, who is also popular in the tweeter, said that the health minister's demand that all hospital commanders resign to put out of the process parties is scandalous. All about the pins, ladies? There's a limit. We can't do it all for the pins. I hear that the neo-democratics that grandparents have in their homes are locking up, not meeting any minister on the street and making him commander at the hospital. They're locking up their homes, grandparents. And I'm hanging up with the scout. So much love for the fake guys, really, I wasn't expecting her. It's beyond me, too. I saw Mr. Treasury's meeting with his counterpart Skopje. You might have kept writing about the unpublished Northern Macedonia yesterday. Because it is unexecutionable, Minister. For the Greek people - and know it - Skopje was, Skopje is and Skopje will remain. Mr. Dendia, you too are very active in social media. Tell us how you feel that your Skopje counterpart on his own profile - you met him yesterday - keep writing about Macedonia? Here, what Nicola Dimitrov writes. And I'm closing up with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, too. Mr Makis Vorides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make an intervention because, of course, the bill will cover it and Mr Hatzidakis will defend it as a whole. I would like to make one speech, which concerns two, three points. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] First of all, following on from the step taken by my colleague, do not stress the issues of migration management. A plan will be put in place to ensure what needs to be done. Refugees - those who are refugees - will receive humanitarian protection, as provided for by international conditions and will harmonisely join the Greek society, in so far as they want to join and do not want to stay on the ground in order to return to their homeland. Everyone, and the rest, that is, illegal immigrants, will be judged immediately and quickly. If it is deemed to be illegal immigrants, they will be led to closed pre-regulatory centres and re-propelled. So don't worry. It's in full control. The plan's evolving. The truth is that we have received a very difficult situation. One government left the state completely unrealistic, not because it escaped, but because they were the specific ideological and political views of the SYRIZA government. The well-known 'lasser passer', all of them to come in and pass. That's what SYRIZA's government did. Politics has changed. Everything will be checked, by the way. Our plan is under way. The second point I would like to make is that I have heard a great deal about agricultural land: first of all, we have to clarify a number of issues. At the moment with the existing, as it is now configured, with measures on both sides of the roads, which can be used to install in these PVs, squares are far more than 1%. Can we come to an understanding of this? Since, then, we can agree on this, for those who are cut off for the loss of the productive land to inform you that we are limiting the loss of the productive land. We're not increasing her. Why? Because you are all diligent colleagues, in particular the Plenipotentiaries of SYRIZA, have certainly read that 1% of what has already been authorised or those who have already applied. So there's nothing more. Nothing more! Why? Because make your bills, you who are practical people. What do I mean, here? If there is regulation on measures on either side of the roads, since they are bound by land, if licenses have already been issued, the licensed ones will be removed if you make your bills, the whole earth will be less. So what's left of it? There remains something less than what is currently being provided. So don't cut yourself. And also, take a seat, because we can see what that serves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u256	Mr President, I would like to ask one question later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u257	Why are you upset now? Don't you want me to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u258	I asked the President to ask you a question later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u259	Okay. What question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u260	Minister, go on, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u261	I, as you know, allow holidays, according to Parliament's traditions and traditions, as long as I do not take time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u262	I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u263	He is removed from my fellow Members, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u264	That is why I am saying, provided the President regulates it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u265	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u266	I have one or two more issues. So we must make this clear and make the choices. Do we want to move on to a change in the energy mix? Do we want clean energy? Is that bio-environmental energy? Do we want her? We have to decide whether to take a measure to do that. So things are clear and clear and cannot be said otherwise. I would also like to state my support for an amendment which has just been tabled by fellow Members from the New Democracy and is to be distributed to the Chamber and which fulfils an important and essential objective that we have in the Ministry of Rural Development. So what? To reduce production costs. How do we do that? We are doing this because we are anticipating the existing regulation, which allows farmers to produce electricity for the use of their own needs. It gives the existing provision a margin of 20% to exceed these same needs, on the grounds that this 20%, which is converted into income for farmers, is used to amortise their investment in PV. 20%, my New Democracy colleagues are proposing that 75% should be made more attractive to investment and that this investment should be repaid more quickly. So we accept - Mr. Hatzidakis will say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u267	Why are they disturbing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u268	They don't like favorable measures for the productive world. They prefer unfavourables. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are therefore accepting this amendment. Mr Hatzidakis will say so, provided for in this bill, to make the amendments acceptable or not. We have reached agreement on this issue. This is extremely important because it enables production costs to be reduced, precisely because electricity will no longer be paid. It is a central point of our policy and it is extremely important. Now, I am simply finishing with a reference, which is not my responsibility, but I would like to praise the Minister on this issue, for this courageous reform step, which concerns the issue of the permanentity of PPC recruits, or rather the lack of permanentity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u269	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u270	I'm done. I heard an argument...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u271	Since our government in 2012!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u272	I'm talking about this regulation. Good, Mr. Loverdo. So this choice and this arrangement continue. And I heard the following two: or that this is already the case - so why the complaints? Because, at the most, we do something superfluous. Since it is already the case, we are relegating something legislating, so we are all in agreement. Very nice or inappropriate and now legislated. And I must say that, in any case, for PPC, which operates in a competitive environment, one must choose which terms it will operate. Is it possible to have a public company exposed to private competition with all public burdens and conditions? What hope and luck of survival do you give the competition of such a company? Therefore, as soon as PPC is adapted to all conditions of private competition, this is a survival condition for anyone interested in PPC. The opposite is a condition of undermining that will in fact lead to closure and dissolution. So that's the reality. I also salute the energy. I wholeheartedly support the initiative of the Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, too. The Kalamatian has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u274	Mr President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u275	It can't be done. There's no procedure like that. Then if Mr. Janakopoulos, who is a parliamentary representative, is happy to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u276	For the amendment he tabled, I would like to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u277	What do you want to ask about the amendment now? Then. There is no procedure for the amendment now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u278	The amendment, of course, exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Janakopoulos, we're going to open a process. Is it in the Rules of Procedure, to open the procedure, for each rapporteur to ask now about the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u280	For the amendment, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u281	The Minister is here and we will continue. You have the floor after...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u282	He has a right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u283	He won't talk. If there's one question, he'll make it, but not talk. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u284	I want to ask the Minister about something that has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u285	Ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u286	Mr Voridis, in the article in question on the agricultural land, in this article you mentioned, it is stated that capacity must not exceed 1% of the total area cultivated, not 1% of the land of high productivity, but of the whole area cultivated. It is therefore clear that the land of high productivity - you are also interested in Arcadia, Mr President - is, for example, 10%. Therefore, we will exclude 10% of the land of high productivity, which accounts for 1% of the wider cultivated area, while in a presiding land-use decree the land of high productivity is prohibited, because it gives a competitive agricultural product, to be used for PV and we have all the lowest productivity land available for it. This is a strategic question for the agricultural sector, not for the energy sector, but it is a strategy. So, it seems strange to me and I ask you: is the Minister for Rural Development blocking the agricultural production of quality products in Greece? It's a question. It can reach a high percentage. And secondly, as far as Mr Hatzidakis is concerned, I heard something about the increase...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u287	Are you asking Mr. Hatzidakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u288	For the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u289	What amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u290	For what the Minister said about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u291	But please, Mr. Famelle, let's get this over with. If we keep this up, we'll never stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u292	I have also heard about an amendment, which Mr Vorides also referred to, which increases the rate of production from 20% to 75%. This, Mr Voridis, means that these projects will not be built to satisfy the agricultural needs, but rather to sell the energy. So the purpose is changed. If someone's going to sell 75%, it's not about their own need. There is therefore an inequality of competition for producers who are also competitive. So the market that operates at the Ministry of Energy is overthrown. There are two problems. That's what they need clarification. It is clear that it is at the expense of both agricultural production and the energy market. You are confusing the energy market at the expense of all producers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u293	Minister, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u294	Yeah, I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u295	And please, as soon as possible, because there are too many speakers. They're forty more speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u296	He's got a day tomorrow, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u297	We decided on this at the Conference of Presidents, Mr Janakopoulos. He was your representative, we talked about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u298	Thirty seconds. I won't get tired, because I think it's very simple. The regulation on the amendment - you will read it and read the legal text as a whole - concerns only farmers and only energy, which is used for their own needs. There's nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u299	How does that work if you sell 75%? Where are their own needs after you sell 75%?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u300	May I? Why don't you just leave? Mr President, he has asked for clarification. He doesn't like clarifications. So it's interrupting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Femmelle, please very much. Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u302	I don't have a problem, but you don't even hear the explanations. I'm reappearing, like the system, the already existing one. I'm not changing it. I'm changing the percentage. Should I say it differently? Let's make an example of this. Eighty are the needs of the producer. It produces eighty. Electricity ends, nets it, doesn't pay anything. He puts it in the system and doesn't pay anything. Up to 20% more - it is the existing regulation - enables it to produce. Why does he give it to him? Does your argument apply to 20%? Answer: No.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u303	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u304	Listen, Mr. Felmelle. You're sensitive too, and you're from a rural area. You are moved by the agricultural issue. So be careful. Why does it give him that 20% above? In order for the producer to be able to use this, depreciating its investment. What do we do now? 20% we do 75%. We're not changing anything in the system. As the layout is, it remains. We give him an additional possibility. He's coming and says Mr. Famelos doesn't give him that possibility. He doesn't like it. Mr Famelos does not want the producer to have an additional income to strengthen his ability to pay for his production. He doesn't want to. Yes, sir. Place on 'I don't want' and it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u305	It's not like that, Mr. Voridis. I asked you another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u306	We get it. You don't want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u307	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u308	You'll explain it to the producers tomorrow, who'll ask you why you didn't want to. You'll explain it to them. You'll tell them the market was smearing. Watch out now. On the other issue you raise. You're not answering the basic. How much was the land bound to the existing system? By the measures from here and by the measures from there on the road, how much was it? Was it more or less? The rest doesn't matter. The answer is that today with this system - because we measured it - it ends up being the land more. And with 1% the earth is less. So that is not what is crucial in our debate. What matters is to enable the photovoltaics to be placed in areas - which, while being able on the streets and on the roads, is therefore the commitment of the earth - to which this possibility is not currently available for geomorphology reasons in reality. So that is the possibility and nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u309	Thank you. Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to say that the Agricultural Chamber is not well informed and perhaps the Minister for Rural Development knows better. The production and supply of electricity in Greece began as a private one. For historical social and developmental purposes, however, it went into public control in the 1950s. The development necessity has led to the establishment of the Public Power Corporation. The aim was to operate for the benefit of the public interest by developing and implementing a national energy policy. Central philosophy of this policy through the exploitation of domestic resources was to provide electricity throughout the territory, confronting it as a necessary social asset and as a development tool. And PPC did it. Electricity is provided with a homogenised tariff throughout the territory, including remote, remote, remote and insular areas. Greek society through the public sector has undertaken the development of PPC and the coverage of social and business needs in electricity in a fair and socially beneficial way. Means such as that of social benefit, are not compatible with the extreme liberal development model. Privatization is not an answer to the problems. The sale of the enterprises under public control has now been shown not to support the development. On the contrary, it reduces household income through increased tariffs and ultimately further increases social inequality. Private acquisitions of public enterprises in contrast to what is projected, do not magnify the economy, do not carry out long-term development projects and lead to an increase in employment. In the narrow economic sense, they do not even constitute investment. In response to your lame, unproven and obsolete arguments, Mr Tsipras earlier, very well, said why privatisations are the past and why the reorientation or maintenance of public goods in the public sphere is the present and the future. I quote seven reasons why PPC is imperative to remain in public. First of all, national development policy depends to a large extent on the production and disposal of electricity. Public control ensures the uninterrupted production and disposal of electricity and the strategic planning of the economy. Secondly, the production and supply of electricity under public control ensures the common pricing policy throughout the territory. Third reason: Public control ensures working conditions and wages, which are largely dispersed in the private sector. In addition, long-term public investment increases employment. Fourthly, public control gives the possibility of socially beneficial pricing policy. In this way an indirect distribution of income to the weaker income classes is being carried out. Public production and supply avoid the private monopoly structure of the market, which by definition increases prices. The price policy is not determined on the basis of the logic of a profit increase, but rather of an increase in overall social benefit. Fifth reason: Under public control the environmental conditions laid down are met. The quality of the environment is a public good. The private investor has no incentive to apply costly environmental protection measures with long-term amortisation because it aims at short-term profit. First reason: The State has lower costs of raising capital. Therefore, the cost of production is lower and the benefit to the consumer and society is greater. Some of the profits, of course, are fruitful of society as a whole through its redistributive policies. Seventh reason: Electricity is a natural monopoly because of the high capital and long-term investments required for production and supply. Production units and networks have been constructed by the public. Public control can ensure economies of scale. I now come to work. It is clear with the bill that you are making sure that two-speed workers are created. On the one hand, PPC's new employees will be recruited by individual contracts of employment. Labour law is thus violated, collective agreements are being circumvented. These workers will receive 650 euros. This is the one side of the coin. There's the other side of the coin. A group of directors is set up with three-year contracts, which are excluded from the pay bill and may come from the market, with criteria, of course, adapted to the political priorities of the New Democracy. The recent provision in Mr.Adoni Georgiadis' development bill for the abolition of the cap on the salaries of presidents, directors and advisors at an EKO opened the way to the creation of the "blue" Golden Boys. Now in PPC, the new caste is expanding, as the wall is removed and for other managers, which will of course have great rewards. Otherwise, according to the Minister, PPC is falling apart. On the one hand slander PPC, you undermine it, and on the other hand take care of your supporters, who, of course, will pay for it. In addition, recruitment will take place outside the SAPA. I know, you will say that - after the outcry - you suggested that the results of the tender should be announced in the AACC, but without a substantive check being carried out. There is no effective control of the AACC. You have forgotten the words of merit, evaluation, excellence that you have spoken in the election. You have, of course, forgotten about them in the placement of hospital managers. You're forgetting them now in PPC. These movements, ladies and gentlemen, are turning us back to 1990-1993. During the government term of Constantine Mitsotakis you remember - not you, the older ones - we were recruiting eight thousand nine hundred non-ACP officials, and there, one third of PPC employees, with specialties that were not in the company's priorities. These were loaded to PPC at the time. Finally, it should be noted that the New Democracy Government does everything in its power to create social automation. Has Mr. Vorides gone? I wanted to say that this is the essence of the provision that you are bringing about the alleged abolition of permanentity. Mr. Loverdus said so. Since 2012 PPC's permanentity has been abolished. It can now be fired by its employees and the active, those who are now, on payment of legal compensation and the restrictions on collective redundancies apply. Your aim is, therefore, to create social automation and to tell the workers outside "yes", supposedly, "we are abolishing perpetuality", which has been abolished since 2012. You are also using the measure of reducing the reduction in the power tariffs of workers in the company so that you are supposed to share the burdens that you, the New Democracy and your Government have borne in the society as a whole with the recent inexorable increases in tariffs. You have increased your invoices and now you say we remove the tariff reduction to PPC's employees, to balance this difference. It's a lot of lies, gentlemen of the government, in five months. But you cannot make fun of the Greek people. You are once again applying the same policy that led the country to bankruptcy. You are privatising public property, you are abolishing labour rights, you are creating your army of supporters, as you have done in the past. But the people have understood your methods and targets and will respond, as they have done in the past.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Mr. Kalamatiano. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the moment at number thirty and we will finish at seventy-three. The Parliamentary Representatives have not spoken with Mr Lebanese, Mr Janakopoulos, Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mrs Bakadama. Also, the Minister hasn't spoken. Please very much and I insist that we stay in time. Mrs Skondra has the floor, and then the Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on the electricity market, as presented to us by the Minister for the Environment and Energy Kostis Hatzidakis. I will begin by congratulating the Minister for the determination and hard work he has done in implementing the commitment of the Government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis to liberalise the energy market in line with European standards. But also to congratulate him on his temperability to handle dangerous missions like PPC today and as "Olympic" yesterday. So arrangements are being introduced with this bill that serves consumers, the market, the workers and, in general, our national economy. Through the modernisation and consolidation of PPC, privatization of PPC and support for RES, our country is moving towards a sustainable future. However, the Civic Opposition continues the method of depreciation and denial. I have heard her rapporteur blame us for disorientating the people. So he's denounced instead of explaining what SYRIZA said? How did SYRIZA receive PPC with 90 million profits deliver it with 900 million losses? Why don't you tell the people the truth? That you agree the NOME auctions where you forced PPC to sell its competitors power below costs by leaving it with 600 million? How in your years did PPC lose 83% of its share value? These are the figures, ladies and gentlemen, which, unfortunately, are not disproved for you. As the reality does not deny that PPC is no longer a monopoly and must survive within a competitive environment, so it must be modernised and evolved as you must understand that the soviets of the monopolies have gone definitively and irrevocably. You are constantly disagreeing with our proposals, but you are even disagreeing with your own proposals, with what you are tabling. You're talking about a plan. What is your plan for PPC, for liberation, but also for the country in general? We are told by Mr Famelos that we are not focused on the intentions of our legislative initiatives. To have fun with your concerns, I am referring to outlines of basic arrangements, which we are launching today. We move on to degrease and stop all lignite plants until 2028. At the same time, an exit voluntary scheme will be implemented with the aim of reducing the operating costs of the enterprise. It is important here to report that voluntary financing will be self-financed, not to burden taxpayers and insurance funds, but exclusively to PPC itself, while the cost will be amortised within a maximum of three years. We abolish the permanentity of directors and directors. These positions will be proclaimed and motivated to attract staff from the free market. In order to normalise the recruitment status, we abolish the permanentity of new recruits. They will be recruited with control by the AACC, but with faster procedures and fees, which will be defined by the relevant company committee. By order the horizontal discount to PPC's preferential tariffs will be abolished, and from now on there will be only 30% discount on the competitive part of the invoice. We open up the possibility of moving the workers between PPC and DEDDIE and "PPC RENEWABLE S.A.", as well as the possibility of moving workers from the group towards the public. We are creating a flexible framework for low-value supplies in accordance with Community legislation and maintaining pre-contractual control by the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, the gas market has already shown great interest in the PPP where the public is now controlling 65%. For its full privatization, the Government creates two packages, the PPC Marketing and the PPC's Infrastructure. By privatization, new funds will be injected to allow for the expansion of the natural gas network across the country. Incentives are provided for the promotion of renewable energy sources, the rationalisation of tariffs for services of general interest in the night tariff, which will lead to a significant household relief, as well as the establishment of incentives for the construction of large renewable energy plants and the acceleration of the Public Building Energy Upgrade Programme. I am going to stand in particular at the RES party that directly concerns my Law of Carditsa. It was and remains my permanent position, Minister, that farmers and farmers gradually leave the cost-benefit and energy-intensive oil and electricity, rightly with the controlled installation of new photovoltaic plants in high productivity lands. In order to reduce, however, vertically - which is the great demand - the cultivation costs should then be mobilised and, if possible, even by land, even on the basis of a plot on the acres, their land can be self-evident. I would also like, Mr Minister, to stress once again the value of hydroelectric power such as the value of the Mediterranean in Karditsa. It is a project that has been spent EUR 600 million from national resources. It's the Greek people's money. It is ready to produce a hundred and sixty-five MW of green energy, which entails 30 million net profits for PPC, but remains inactive after the Samara government had not been able to do so, and then SYRIZA's ideology left it on the ground. It is time for your Minister to operate and offer like the dam of Sykia, Minister, Acheloos's work, which is complete at about 70% again from national resources with a dam and a tunnel of about twenty kilometers. I invite you to Carditsa, Minister, to visit them. These are large, energy- and environmental projects, which will make it possible by 2028, for the 35% energy target to come from RES. Finally, by taking a dynamic approach to 'green' energy, the energy of the future, we incorporate automobiles. This is clearly moving in the right direction, and everyone is aware of that. The only exception is the Opposition and the General Assembly - PPC - which, as a reaction, announced forty-eighteen recurring strikes. However, in Greece, which goes forward, some must finally realize that the times of the state monopolies in which the switches in question came down whenever they liked them, because the government did not do them the favors, were finally passed. PPC is not the paradigm of any trade unionist and the government as it owes itself is doing the right thing for a country that is modern in a European environment and a time of demanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u313	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am thinking of responding, as we have discussed the matter several times in committee and this morning because of the objection of unconstitutionalism tabled by SYRIZA, in some respects by colleagues, to this bill and to the policy of government in relation to PPC. The Secretary of State, Mr Thomas, will then speak of all other issues, DEPA, RES and so on. Request First: The Government supposedly deceives PPC. I will tell you at the end what exactly he has done - and it seems that the PPC government has done - these months, but let's see what the SYRIZA prosecutors have done exactly to PPC. I'm starting at the stock price. It was received by 7,2 euros and delivered by 1,3 euros. In the SYRIZA vocabulary, this is obviously characterised by PPC's support, because SYRIZA has already joined an organic perception of things by baptizing the fish meat. However, I would like to continue, beyond the price of the share, by speaking with more specific figures, because there are too many of them. I have two documents here. A letter from HORIZON, a minority shareholder, addressed to PPC’s address, to PPC’s board of directors on 28 September. I'll submit it to the Minutes. It says wholesalely that "PPC is not going well and something must be done. The situation is getting out of hand. The government and the administration are deaf. The stock keeps plunging. The problem continues to grow.’ On 11 March HORIZON returns and says that the problem is getting worse. ‘Where are you going? Do something. You cannot stay abducted." The government and the administration are being abducted, ignoring all these warnings, which I shall submit to the Minutes. You will tell me, because there is always something inventing SYRIZA and I have to admit that it is all right, because HORIZON says it doesn't mean it's the gospel. Let me talk and make it easier for you. Indeed, it's not the gospel. But here I have another paper, which has been released and is a letter from the general economic director of PPC to the director and president of the company and is based on an attached document from Credis Suisse, a PPC consultant, in order to get out and borrow on the markets. After saying a number of things, it says that "if we cannot be convincing about this, that is, in terms of an attempt to reorder PPC, it becomes very difficult to get out on capital markets. I think it would be a good thing to promote the excess. The principal's note is on Friday, September 21st at 17:43 and I'll submit it to the Minutes. I am referring to September 2018. This is ignored both by the administration and the government. You're going to say that it's not the gospel and the recommendation of the general economic director, who has not been placed by us, was there, cooperated with the administration and cooperated by the last day. I have another document - I told you that I have much more, but I have chosen these - and it is the same of PPC's administration. On 14 January 2019, the Governing Council shall be assisted by the recommendation. What does that suggestion say? That there must be intervention in PPC's pricing policy, in the abolition of the discount, in several other interventions, so that PPC does not sink. I have here the suggestion, which reads as follows: adapting the discount policy to the low and average trend, adjusting the fees for the commission of PPC's low voltage invoices, proposals, etc., stamps, signatures etc. At the same time, one speaks in those days on the newspapers, on the websites and I have here indicatively two publications, which say "increases in electricity tariffs are coming from PPC" and "Panagiotakis": It is necessary to increase revenues on tariffs for PPC to come out on the markets. On the table the 15% reduction and the CO2 clause.' And while all this is done on January 14th, in a few days PPC's board of directors meets, and the invisible handles, ignores the board of directors and the exhortations of the hierarchy, but also the one recommended by the president - according to these papers - to the board of directors and decides not to do anything. You will also tell me that 'we, we are merciful, did not want to increase tariffs'. But all this policy - and I shall be tabling it in the Minutes - is leading to two-three months later on in this House, which is the report by ERNST & YOUNG, which I have spoken about in the morning, entitled 'Very uncertainty relating to the continuation of the activity'. What does ERNST & YOUNG say, since the merciful government had this policy and the administration did not act? It says: "We pay your attention - much says, but I read the essential - in note 3.1 of the financial statements, which indicates that the company and the group in closed use presents reduced revenues and high losses before tax, while on 31 December 2018 the short-term requirements of the company and the group fell by 949 million and 708 million of its short-term liabilities respectively. On the basis of the assessments of the administration, i.e. Panayotakis, the above conditions, which are expected to continue during the next 12 months alone and in the whole together with other issues, as described in note 3.1, indicate - based on assessments of the administration - the existence of material uncertainty, which might give rise to considerable doubt as to the company and the group's ability to continue its activities." It adds 'ERNST & YOUNG' that 'our opinion is not amended in this respect'. So who's coming? The administration itself, which by intervention of the invisible hand did not take measures, and said to the sworn accountant "we go to the toast". And the sworn auditor comes out last spring and says so. Normally here, the game should be over. It is so clear that it is not questionable. Just because, in addition to the primary surpluses produced by the Tsipras government, it also has primary excesses of force, which is why they are continuing the debate, without realizing that the more they continue this debate, the more they are being harmed. Because a clearer case of indifference and political hypocrisy on such a serious issue cannot be resolved. I shall once again present the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, and the So what did we do, who deported the company? I've been sick of hearing it since summer. They say that Hatzidakis deceives the company, deceives the company, deceives the New Democracy. Yes, sir. How did we deceive her? Firstly, we took the EUR 1.3 share, on the day of the European elections, which was SYRIZA's first defeat. It is not, of course, an indicator showing everything - every other - but as this counts for the alleged depreciation, I would like to remind you that from 1.3 has gone to 3.1 or 3.2. You don't call it disdain. For as long as this also counts, on 24-9 after the measures we took for the NOMEs, for the abolition of NOME auctions, for the invoices, the same auditor came to the opposite conclusion, which has been presented since then and which has obviously been recorded on the market. You will tell me: 'This is your assessment, because we question everything and you are reading the conclusions of the solemn auditor'. I may read them wrongly, but I do not think you recognize me as so great a skill that it is my own body or government's body, the 'STANDARD & POOR'S'. Because if it were, they would have changed everything in this country. It would help us everywhere and horizontally. The 'STANDARD & POOR'S' therefore comes and refers to all these measures. It says that these measures are 'almost neutral for the customers', almost neutral for consumers. It refers to the abolition of NOMEs, it refers to all measures announced by the Government and then the 'STANDARD & POOR'S'. It upgrades PPC's creditworthiness. This is the policy of the New Democracy in PPC, as recorded by official figures, and that was PPC's real policy of depreciating PPC from SYRIZA for which you should finally apologize to the Greek people. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I shall also present the report on 'STANDARD & POOR'S'. Second complaint. You say in the past few months the company has lost, one says thirty thousand customers, the other sixty thousand customers. You have various numbers to give us. The result of NOMEs, unfortunately, will be here for several months, because that is how the market works and everyone knows it. I want to see who's talking, who's talking about thirty thousand, sixty thousand and so on. They speak of those who in December 2014 took seven million three hundred eighty-eighty-six hundred twenty-eighties and in June 2019 left six million seven hundred fifty-five thousand nineteen six-sixteen customers, six hundred thousand less customers. Doesn't that count? Doesn't it tell you anything you got a PPC 95-96% and you gave a PPC with a market share of 74%? Aren't those numbers there? Or have you repulsed them somewhere on the edge of your subconscious, because they're bothering you and doing here theatrical political plays? Is that all they've lost their importance? Did the words, the meanings, the numbers, everything and we speak in vacant? I'll testify to this in the Minutes. Thirdly, 'Networks will not develop, because you privatize them'. They have reason to take networks, to take DEPA, to say, infrastructure, and while they may win from the so-called 'wack', which is the toll, which is collected by anyone who manages the networks, there is a reason, according to SYRIZA, for the new network managers not to extend the networks to take less money. That's a strange point of view you have for investors! And obviously, because you have such views on investors you have done so well in the four and a half years that you have ruled. Because you obviously cannot understand how the economy and the market work. The investor obviously has every reason to extend the networks to increase his profits. He won't do it for charity reasons. And how much it will make, as is done throughout Europe, is determined by RAE in accordance with European Union regulations. It's not his thing. Fourth complaint: "With all these arrangements you do, you will increase PPC's costs." Well, here I can't figure out, because on the one hand you're objecting to unconstitutionality, because we're going to give hunger wages, and on the other hand you're saying that PPC's cost will be increased, because the blue kids will get in. Decide on which side you will criticise us. Either we increase the cost or we have hunger wages. Increased cost with hunger wages doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u315	How isn't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u316	But I'm over it, too. The truth is that there will be a significant scale of voluntary exit for which we are setting the bases today, which will be completely self-financed by PPC. It is precisely because it will be large-scale, that PPC's costs will be significantly reduced. It is also due to the defoliation, basically, but not only and will be amortised at most in three years' time. All the intervention, which we are doing, will lead to a lower-cost PPC, which is good news for consumers and taxpayers, and that cannot be reduced. Fifth complaint: 'You are obsessed with privatisation'. The truth is that we are indeed in favour of privatisation. Our difference is that we are, and we say it, while you do and blame them against doing the same thing that you have attempted. You'll tell me I'm wrong with you. I'll tell you if I'm wrong with you. Who privatised 49% of IPTO? Is it a party that starts with S and ends in YRIZA? Who privatised 66% of the CNG? Did any party that had a leader of a party whose name starts in T and ends in SIRRAS? And who decided to sell PPC's lignite plants in two rounds, even the second time without a threshold, i.e. even a euro, regardless of whether an investor was found, because in the meantime they had been devalued. Do any parties, who are sitting today at the headquarters of the L.A., pretending to be an apology to the D.A.? Are you accusing us of doing what you have done in triplicate? And I keep going down. Next injunctions: You'll put the blue kids in the AAP. Why are we gonna put the blue kids on the SAAP? Because we provide that an audit of the legality of the contract notice is carried out on the one hand and the AACC carries out an audit and validation of the final lists of recruitees on the other. If that's possible! Determining crime! Do we do such a thing? Unprecedented! Let's see how unprecedented they are. I do not want to refer either to the 2K notice or to the 3K notice. It is remembered by Mr Skourletis, by several other ministers who were responsible. I'll be much more specific and stay in our ministry. I want to stand - I don't think you have such a short memory - in one of the last laws you've passed - may be the last - the last one - to Mr.4618/2019. He got FEC on 10 June 2019. It is on a contract for the mutual benefit Foundation 'Stavros Niarchos', but you have tabled an amendment to Article 15 'Agreements to strengthen the operational independence of the Energy Regulatory Authority, RAE'. So what are you doing there? Do you decide to hire employees to the RAE, and what are you doing? Here's what you're doing to remind you of something. These officials are to be recruited as follows: The RAE's decision is to issue a notice following a legality check carried out by the AACC. Below it says: Candidates submit their applications to RAE, which they evaluate - RAE! - and draw up provisional tables. And he goes on to say: the AACC carries out a legal review and a check on the tables in the previous subparagraph. Ladies and gentlemen, for those who insist that they do not understand what we are doing now, it is exactly what you did on 10 June for recruitment to the RAE!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u317	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u318	Well, at some point SYRIZA's nerve must have some limits! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'll testify to this in the Minutes. Don't trouble yourself any more. It's not worth it. I'm going further. Preferential invoice. The truth is, SYRIZA is confusing me. I will end tomorrow when their vote on the privileged invoice for PPC officials is recorded, because their position shows a occultness and to the extent that they are manifested is not clear. However, I have heard from various other colleagues 'why we are abolishing the privileged invoice of PPC officials'. We are abolishing this because it is a privilege which - at this stage that everyone has a burden on PPC - must not have, and I think PPC officials themselves, who have a 75% discount and that discount, not only for PPC's invoice but also for what we pay on the right side of the invoice, i.e. for the PPC, IPTO and the PPC. We are therefore abolishing the discounts for DEDENE, IPTO and the YYPOs and we are going to get the 30% discount, as are most of PPC's competitors. I am therefore waiting for the vote tomorrow to see the positions of SYRIZA and the positions of the other parties, because it is important for society as a whole, as well as for the other categories of workers! We wait tomorrow, and we'll see what you'll vote for! I hope we agree. We have the courage, however, and we are abolishing this privileged arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u319	Do you know the cost?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u320	I come to the issue of permanentity.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u321	Please, how much longer will you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u322	Two minutes, Mr. President. I won't say much because I spoke in the morning. I would like to remind you, however, that there is also a contradictory criticism here. On the one hand, I have heard some people say 'but perpetuality is already abolished'. If it is - as Mr Vorides said before -, all right, there is no problem, at the most - that we have had an unnecessary regulation, you should not complain. But at the same time you say that it is disgraceful that we abolished permanentity on your part, and that is neoliberal, irresponsible, unconstitutional, and you have also made a statement of non-constitutionality. We've answered you. Everyone is placed responsibly towards the Greek citizens. Yes, well, because PPC needs to be modernised and because PPC is no longer a monopoly and has competitors and has to stand up, we - we say clearly - abolish the permanentity for new entrants, as the permanentity of PPC's managers, who will now be engaged in three-year contracts and will be judged on their work! We are also proud of this policy. We're going with tomorrow. You guys stick together in the last night! I would like to close with a few comments which made that Mr Lovers and others have made about whether we have, apart from the emergency measures that we have adopted and a business plan. We have it, and I'm referring to titles. It is five basic things: the rescue of PPC, the measures we took in the summer. Modernising PPC with all the arrangements that we bring for the perpetuality, for the supplies, all the other issues we discuss in this bill. Illegalisation is a very big issue, of course, and we care about the consequences that will exist in the regions and we will discuss this in detail. PPC's privatisation to put money in its pocket and modernise the network. And a courageous opening of PPC to renewable energy sources because despite SYRIZA's rhetoric about green sensitivity, PPC remained with a 3% share in renewable energy sources in the country. You'll see all this. Some - the first two - have already been unfolded, the remaining three of them will unfold over the next few days and months and know that we are proud and Mr Thomas and I, and above all the Prime Minister, that within a few months for PPC we have done what should have been done for many years. You should know, then, that we have a quiet conscience towards not only those who voted for us, but those who did not vote for us. And we have a quiet conscience towards those who have voted for us and those who have not voted for us because, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that this policy is our duty towards the economy and above all towards our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u323	I would like to inform the House that the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and forty-eight Members of his Party tabled today on 27-11-2019 a proposal for a law: 'National Civil Protection System'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA Mr Dimitrios Janakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that on our side we have to show one by one the conscious lies and inaccurate ones, which Mr Hatzidakis had written a moment ago, from this step and which are not inaccurate and false, which are recently inaccurate. On the contrary, from the first moment, Mr Hatzidakis has undertaken the dangerous mission - as previously with the "Olympian", where he has managed to create the only private monopoly in the country, with his highly successful privatisation, which he has prepared and completed in his former ministerial term - and extremely joyous for him to privatise all energy operations in our country. But, before I begin on the issues of energy, PPC, PPC, and precisely the inaccuracies and false ones we have heard from this step forward, I would like to point out something else. We have told you for some time already, since the first weeks of your government, that you have prepared and implemented a plan for the complete control of public administration, state, institutions, the suffocating control of the whole public life in the country as a whole. Examples too much these months. ERT, ERT, ERTEA, poster with increased wages, nephews in positions of the executive state, best man. We could multiply the list. But, in the case of hospital governors, who have seen the light of publicity in the last few days, things have become extremely difficult for you, because Rusfetti is now directly attributed to Mr Mitsotakis. O for one day commander of Carditsa Hospital, Mr. Father, said it well. Mr. Mitsotakis bought Mr. Father's votes, in return for the status of commander in a hospital. This is Mr Mitsotakis, the man who sells the state as a spoil, in exchange for a few votes. Rejoice him! And one wonders: Where did the big words go about the ultimate state, excellence, about democracy? You have the head of your party and your government a man who sells the state by buying votes. It is a disgrace to democracy, and Mr Mitsotakis should already have taken a stand, explaining to the Greek people, because otherwise he will become the greatest political fraudster in modern history. So you, when you bought votes and sold positions of the state as a spoil, dare and dare still blame SYRIZA for allegedly partisan state, when SYRIZA was the first government to set up special committees of experts to choose the administrations of hospitals, while, as I said before, you are selling positions of the state to get votes. Shame, shame, shame, Mr Hatzidakis, to repeat your morning expression. So Mr Mitsotakis has an explanation to answer. It is now a personal report and I think that this is the beginning of a situation which will lead to extremely big political problems for the New Democracy and the current government. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, is nothing to do with today's bill. They are not at all independent of what is currently envisaged by the abolition of the PPC procedure. I would like to reply to Mr Hatzidakis on what he said about the special arrangement that was made for RAE. You must be aware, Mr Hatzidakis, because you are an experienced politician, that the RAE and its administration appoint it by the House with increased majority voting. The government does not appoint it. The RAE is an independent authority. There is therefore much greater confidence in the way RAE does its recruitment, and contrary to PPC's case, we have a public company whose board of directors, Mr Hatzidakis, you yourself have been appointed personally in collaboration with the Minister of Finance, perhaps. Therefore, you understand that the two cases are rather asymmetrical and it's rather miserable the comparison that you sought to make. So the abolition of PPC's new recruitment in the case of PPC is precisely part of a general strategy that you have drawn up and implemented with a double objective. Firstly, the creation of a strong customer network and secondly, the suffocating party control of all PPC's internal functions. I now come to your favorite sport, as it evolves, i.e. the false news, the distortions, the inaccurate ones. I think that Mr Hatzidakis, with his previous speech and with what he says in the last four months, has become a worthy competitor to Mr Georgiadis and Mr Brutsis. And this is an accident, because it now competes with the two previous gentlemen in relation to who will say the greatest inaccuracy compared to who will produce the most false news. I'm starting with Mr. Hatzidakis' favorite theme, NOME. I hear many of the New Democracy Members reading the non paper, which has obviously shared them with the Ministry, and constantly repeat the complaint that SYRIZA was supposedly the one who applied NOMEs and led to the damage to PPC. Your Mr. Famelos has said it several days ago. You agreed, you signed it in the second memorandum. And you did not sign it and agreed it as an alternative to "little" PPC. They were both predictable. And "little" PPC and NOME. Therefore, your 'broken' attempted to weaken. We managed to keep IPTO under public control with 51% in the Greek state. We did not manage to reverse your own commitments, which have your signatures and were part of the second assessment. I have absolutely no doubt, Mr Hatzidakis, that neither you nor your Members will stop repeating this false news, because you have clearly the strategy of'say, say, something will remain'. However, I have to say it for the sake of the truth, the history, the information of the Greek citizens. Nevertheless, I can tell you again that I have no hope that the other Members of the New Democracy who will come up to the Step will take this little detail into account, namely that it was your signature in the second memorandum, in order to secure and commit the country for the NOMEs. Privatisations. You criticised us for the privatisations, which you know were included as commitments in the second memorandum, in which you have put your signature wide and you have committed the country. But what did we do in relation to IPTO? I told you before. We managed the moment that IPTO would be privatised by 66% to keep 51% in the Greek state. Let's go down. What did we do with the D.C.D.? It was a privatization that you had opened the tender, that the competition had been completed and you had received a price of EUR 135 million, Mr Hatzidakis, in your own days. Did we repeat the tender, and what price did we get for the CRS, given of course the Memorandum Obligation? We got 535 million euros. Therefore, in this suffocating Memorandum, where we were obliged by the Treaty, which you had imposed on the country, we managed to increase the price five times. In relation to the lignite plants, you criticised us, because we started with the commitments of the "little" PPC, which he did? He gave all PPC's "fillets" to private investors, i.e. hydroelectric plants. We removed them from the obligation to privatise, and what we ended up with, after a hard negotiation, was from 35% that would come out of a competition based on "little" PPC's only 10%. Therefore, in this case what the previous government sought was precisely to collect your own 'broken'. Damage to PPC. I'll tell you two numbers, Mr. Hatzidakis. In 2008 under the rule of the New Democracy - I do not remember who the minister responsible was at the time - PPC's losses were at EUR 250 million. In 2013 PPC’s losses were around EUR 400 million. So when you're talking about the treaty that we received in 2015, you should remember that you were that political force, which over the years fully devalued the operation and we tried to set it up on its feet. Loans to PPC. You are accusing us of launching PPC's lending over our days. Let me tell you one more clue. PPC's lending was EUR 5.5 billion in 2015, when we received the governance and under EUR 4 billion was PPC's lending, when we handed over in July 2019. You want to keep going?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u325	Mr. Colleague, may I, because you have a lot of time, make an announcement about the children?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u326	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u327	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIAOS VENIZELOS", forty-seven students and students and four teachers from the 2nd Nafpaktos High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u328	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let's go on: Absolute perpetuality. What are we accusing you of? What are we accusing you of, Mr. Minister, Mr. Hatzidakis? We blame you for this. We do not welcome the abolition of permanentity, but we accuse you of the fact that, in trying to touch the specific audience that is following you, a special audience that rejoices when working rights are being lost, a audience which rejoices when conditions of social automation and conflict are being created for private and public officials, precisely so that you can gain even greater access to this audience, by constantly lying. For you are now saying that you are now abolishing the perpetuality of PPC, by imitating Mr. Georgiadis again, who said that "the Troikas will not take the glory away from me, I did the Memorandum". In the same way you say "I will not get the glory of the 2012 Papademos government, which abolished the perpetuality of PPC, I abolish the perpetuality". So all of this is essentially elements of a structured strategy of yours so that you can get the access you want to the audiences that you are interested in. Now, I could go on with the lies and the inaccuracies you have said. A sworn accountant's report. You put in the mouth of the sworn accountant, which he has never said, but which he added in the report of the sworn accountant the appointed board of PPC, saying that the uncertainty has now been lifted. Also, the sworn accountant came in October 2019 and what did he say? He said that "in the first half of 2019, the image is not what we thought we would have, but instead we have PPC's operating profits before taxes of EUR 100 million". In the first half of 2019, Mr. Hatzidakis, were you a minister then? And you are now coming to say that the change and reversal of PPC's image was supposed to be related to your speech and even to your speech, because we did not increase the tariffs, which again the statement of the board appointed by you are neutral in relation to what the households will have to pay. So I will tell you what the neutrality is. Household with low consumption will be charged EUR 75. Household with average consumption of 100 euros. Household with a high consumption of 120 euros. Shop with low monthly consumption of 165 euros. Store, small and medium-sized enterprises with high monthly consumption of EUR 735. So do not come here and present us as supposedly viewpoints of the sworn accountants what the board of directors, who you appointed, claims for your own policy. It is at least necessary for us to respect the basic rules of dialogue and openness. But now we're going, because I don't have much time in the mornings, where literally false news, inaccurate news, distortions have come to an end. And I am talking about the answer you have given, Mr Hatzidakis, in relation to what we have charged you with the unconstitutionality of Article 3(5) which relates to the principle of equal pay for equal work. Because there, speaking of an issue you do not know - and I want to be well-meaning, I think someone misled you from those who advised you - you claimed things that have nothing to do with reality. You left three issues tops for SYRIZA's criticism. You said that there is a well-established case-law of the Ice Bay, which allows for differences between the workers. However, the decisions you have referred to, Mr Hatzidakis, have absolutely nothing to do with this issue, and on the contrary, there is a consistent case law of the Ice Bay, which says that the time of recruitment is not a crucial issue and is not a good reason for different treatment between workers. First inaccurate. Corrosion? Wrong? Possibly misinformation? But, from there on, things begin to get very strange, because you invoked an OTE's collective labour contract, which you said was signed in 2017. No such contract was signed in 2017, on the contrary, there was an OTE contract signed in 2014 on your own days, where, notice what happened, the government did not then come to change unilaterally collective labour contract with legislative intervention, but on the contrary, workers and employers decided to step up wages within the company. I do not regard it as an evaluation of the collective agreement, but there is a fundamental difference and you probably did not understand, Minister, what we are talking about. I'll get it out of you. What we are discussing is that you are coming unilaterally as a government to intervene in a collective labour contract, which, by the constitution, you are not entitled to and you have tried to load it with SYRIZA as well. And third extreme falsehood that supposedly there is a working regulation in force at "PPC RENEWABLES S.A.", where there is supposedly SYRIZA did the same as what you currently fully unconstitutional want to do. So let me inform you, Mr. Hatzidakis, that no working regulations at "PPC RENEWABLES S.A." are in force today, nor has it ever been, on the contrary, the government's policy was to incorporate the employees of "PPC RENEWABLES S.A." into PPC itself and to be covered by the collective agreements. That was the working regulation, adopted by the workers' agreement in 2019, about May, and it did not come into force until it came into force, precisely because of the European elections and then the elections. Your credibility, Minister, is in Nadir. You have said at least fifteen lies today, and that is no way to make politics. I close by saying it is obvious that your aim is to privatise PPC and PPC. It has explained to you why it is disastrous for the public interest, it is disastrous for the investments. You insist on your ideas, you insist that privatization is panacea for all problems. You will be disproved, but unfortunately the marble will be paid for by the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u329	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the speech has now been requested, for you know, by the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece for six minutes, Mr Karathanasopoulos. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has then asked for the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Varoufakis will speak and we will continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u330	We, Mr. President, tomorrow?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u331	Tell the Parliamentary Representatives of our parties. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr President. Since this morning, we have been watching a gloomy confrontation between the Government of New Democracy and SYRIZA. Centrally, we would say, elements of this globe are privatisation, who is in favour or against privatisation. And New Democracy and SYRIZA, when it was government privatisation, also did in the energy sector. And the New Democracy wants to do energy. We are watching a gloomy controversy over what governance PPC has lost more customers. But they forget to say that in the third memorandum with SYRIZA - ANEL government, which voted for New Democracy and Change Movement, there wrote very characteristicly "in the course of liberalisation of the electricity market", stressing that PPC's share would be reduced to 50%. So why are you fighting? Since that's the main idea. So, Mr Hatzidakis, did the third memorandum say that PPC's share should be reduced to 50%? Well, that's the work of both SYRIZA and the New Democracy that supported it in the third memorandum, she voted for it. SYRIZA is protesting about the conditions of the labour market today, against what the government brings. Of course, with what the New Democracy Government brings, there is a step forward in the cracking of labour rights. However, as a government five years that SYRIZA was responsible for allowing more than 30% of workers in enterprises under public control to be workers, without collective agreements, without rights, many cheap, consumables, and indeed often the contractor owes them some consideration. From this point of view, therefore, it is clear that you are in a strategic choice, which is nothing more than the policy of liberalisation of the electricity market, a policy which has been imposed by the European Union with specific objectives. It says the government - and here, please, note how revealing the government - is, Mr Hatzidakis says, and repeats it many times, that PPC must adapt to the new conditions of competition. What is the government actually doing? It admits indirectly that competition works at the expense of workers' rights. That's what the government admits. It clearly admits that competition is, therefore, responsible for breaking workers' rights, abolishing permanentity, abolishing job security, abolishing sectoral contracts and workers working very cheaply as consumables. That is what you say, Minister, what the JRC points out every time: that competition is responsible for smashing, it is the millstones that grind labour rights. And what else does competition do, Minister? It is at the expense of satisfying people's needs because it has the effect of increasing prices. And be careful, all these two decades of opening up the electricity market and its liberation, the electricity price has multiplied for popular strata. Because of competition and liberation, extensive parts of the Greek people live under conditions of energy poverty, more than 30%. So the reasonable question, which arises, is this: Who does competition serve? Who is liberating? There's only one guy who serves. It serves business groups active in the electricity sector to shield their profitability, i.e. serves the interests of the capitalists. In this process, therefore, the process of worsening the position of workers and the rest of the people's populations, the policy of liberalising the electricity market was also the cornerstone of Halos. Because it has led to the rapid deterioration of the position of the workers, it leads to expensive tariffs for the Greek people, it has led to an increase in the energy dependence of the country because of the imported fuel, natural gas, and of course it was also at the expense of the environment, as well as health and safety. It was at the expense of the environment precisely because extensive forest volumes were given north of wind parks, which had a significant, very serious impact both on biodiversity and on the management of water resources. So, from this policy of liberalising electricity and privatization, the only ones who benefited and guaranteed prices were the predators of businesses, active in the field of renewable energy sources. Crime, in essence, continues and has the name of liberation, which will be at the expense of satisfying the people's needs, but it will also be at the expense of the country's sovereign rights. At a time when the instability in the region is very strong, where conflicts and competitions are too great cannot be a transitional fuel an imported fuel, such as gas, to stabilise the system, which you know very well - we have seen in the recent past - how the cannons of those who have gas rather than those who have pipelines are closed down. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, from this point of view, it is also a crime against the country's sovereign rights. So, through this bill, land and water are given to business groups. This will lead to an increase in tariffs for the people. You are able to install photovoltaics in high productivity lands. So, basically, you're moving on to a land use change. In fact, you are doing this and it is at the expense of satisfying the agri-food needs of our people. In the JRC's view, it is a false dilemma 'if you want to protect the environment, then you must have an expensive current'. And we say this because there is a basic question, Minister, that we have also raised to the committee, and we are now telling you. Tell us whether it is possible under these conditions of the system that we are experiencing and which you are defending is the best system, that there is a formula, that we can use all domestic sources, energy sources, where this use of domestic energy sources will lead to a reduction in energy dependency, that will lead to a stable and efficient electricity system. If there can be such a method which will be upgraded and without degrading the jobs of the workers, it will be permanent, under high working safety conditions, with high wages, where there will be cheap current for the people, because there are productive sources and where the environment is protected.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u333	Mr. Comrade, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u334	I'm done with this. Technically there are tools to combine and meet all these criteria. But never, whatever you do, that's not gonna happen. And why isn't it going to happen? Because it's clean, Minister. Because precisely all of this, the fulfilment of all of these criteria, runs counter to capitalist profit. And with this capitalist gain, we must actually get it over with. As a party we are calling for a roll-call vote, symbolically, both in principle and in relation to Article 3 and Article 24. With regard to the article you said, Mr Minister, on the privileged tariffs for workers, this is an attempt to deceive and condone, because it is part of the income of the PPC workers, which is why it is taxed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u335	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u336	So, what do you do? You reduce the earnings of the workers at PPC, and with that logic we will vote against it and tell you clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u337	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theory they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", fifty-two students and students and four teachers from the 5th High School of Xanthi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a slight change in the programme. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative will now speak. After Mrs Bakadima, the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25. And Mr Varoufakis is expected to speak later. Come on, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening to the children from Xanthi. They were just kids from Nafpatto there, but I didn't have time to talk to them, where is my area. Be well. Welcome. Because we heard things today in this Chamber, I will put at the end what the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said before, which shocked us all those who heard him, because they were, from all the speeches he has made, the only one that was from the beginning to the end of everything that he lied about. Before I arrived there, however, I wanted to talk about some of the things that colleagues have said before. I'm starting with Mr. Pappa. And I will focus a little on ministers, on people who had executive powers over SYRIZA, because it is scary - it is not terrible - to listen to them today with this courage, which comes in this Chamber to blame the next ones, without apologizing for any of the things they have done. So since he has referred little to the issues of the bill, he has come and made a political analysis of how the simple analogue, which is this spectacular political electoral system, which you have brought, will be able to help the country. And she ended up saying that this party will reduce its power, its MPs will be less, because SYRIZA will increase its power. Where did he see that? All surveys, all polls show the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u339	Plus fifty seats is due to the electoral system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u340	Please don't interrupt. You'll be placed later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u341	You lost the election. And today, you come here and instead of apologise for the anticipation of the country that you delivered, you come and you teach us lessons and tell us that the simple analogue, solvent everywhere, will come to save the country. And in the end, you come and say that the polls that keep you up, are upside down. I would just like to say that it is'short get together'. Mr. Skourlet, in the same logic, defeated the New Democracy. I would like to ask him a simple question and an exhortation: Before he comes back here, or in public, to tell us, firstly, whether he is proud himself and his government of what he did as Minister. And secondly, in these hundreds of honest questions, which we have constantly put to him, let us answer even a few questions at 10%. So he can tell us and apologize for his policy. If he doesn't do that, nobody's gonna hear him from now on. Mr Loverdos has made us an exhortation, which he has really done before, and I think we should listen to him. We have to record what we have received as government. Because if they are not recorded, after a few months of being thought by SYRIZA's gentlemen and ladies that they will be forgotten, they will come to ask us for the change of policy. The government needs to think about this very well. And we must see how the House itself will move in relation to the examination of all these issues. I think the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement is right. Mr Janakopoulos, in criticizing the Minister's speech and placing all of the material on top of it, also said nothing about the years that you have governed. And what he tried - through his ironic style but also his agony to show, say, certain of what he said - to tell us, it was all false, it was broken. And most of the documents Mr Hatzidakis submitted this morning have been devastated. But he said a big lie, which has nothing to do with the bill. He said the Prime Minister bought votes from Mr. Father. This is an arbitrary interpretation, and I would like it when it comes back to the Chamber to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u342	After telling SKAI.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u343	Did he say he bought it? Did he say the word "purchase"?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u344	Did the word or the transaction hurt you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u345	Did he say the word "purchase"?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u346	Mr. Femmelle, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u347	It's funny, what you're doing. Retract it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u348	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u349	Did the word or the transaction hurt you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr. Famelos, for disputing Mr. Janakopoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u351	What did he say about the transaction?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u352	Please, Mr. Femmelle. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Calm down, gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u353	I'll talk to you later. By yelling, you don't gain your right. You're losing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u354	Mr. Lebanon, do not continue the dialogue now. Continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u355	I just want to say, to remind both Mr Famello and his companions, but above all in the collective subconscious of your fact that it was Mr Tsipras who had this amazing Minister, Mr Polakis, who had his friends in his hospitals in his office.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u356	But please, ladies and gentlemen. It is not every time a speaker of any party talks about this process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Santorinier, you know how much I respect you, please very much. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, please. You have the floor then to speak. Doesn't he have the right to say it? Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u358	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u359	You don't have the floor. Those who are registered will speak. It's Mr. Vardakis. They're so many colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u360	Instead of hearing about PPC...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u361	But please! Did I just stop Mr. Janakopoulos from talking about other matters that he talked about? Did I tell him to stop talking? Please! Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u362	So he got - because we really need to mention them often so you don't forget them themselves - his good friend from his shop, a vulcanizer - we don't have any problem with that - and he put him there...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u363	But please, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Janakopoulos is here. He'll ask after the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u364	I said it and I'll say it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u365	Mr Colleague, I invited you to withdraw it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u366	You've made a trade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u367	So we want to remind you too...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u368	You've made a trade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u369	You exchanged votes with...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u370	Mr. Janakopoulos, you will have the right to speak later. Mr. Famel, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u371	You're laughing. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u372	I'm laughing at your eyes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u373	What kind of situation is this? Do you think what's going on now is the right thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u374	But not tell us...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u375	Please let the speaker speak, and then the parliamentary representative will speak. He'll take the floor again and the MPs won't talk. No problem. I can't prevent that. Please don't interrupt him again. Let's move on. Already, we've lost several minutes. Go on, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u376	I've spoken for two minutes, and the MPs, like, six minutes. So I just wanted to remind you once again - and tell us about this - Mr Dimitris Bouto, this amazing other best friend of the Prime Minister's best friend, who was appointed to Nice, who had four fake degrees. Thirty pages have come out of the Public Administration Inspectors' Corps. And what did you all do? Nothing. Mr. Paulakis also posted in favour of him. And finally, he didn't last and quit. What's our difference? If a mistake has been made, what you yell at, this has been corrected immediately. That man, that's not a commander anymore. We explained to you, and in the morning what the procedures we have set for the evaluation of hospitals, which you did not put in. And if you don't yell and vaporize, we'll judge them every three months. They will be judged by the people and by the services. And we will be judged as a whole at the end of the four-year period. The style and spirit that is hidden under the style of speech and your voices and the way you understand your parliamentary procedure characterizes. Our counterpart and the Minister before and how he tried to convince you of his view, in relation to your opposite view, also characterises our party and, of course, him. I don't want to comment on this. As far as unconstitutionalism and anxiety are concerned, Mr SYRIZA Parliamentary Representatives and colleagues of SYRIZA - firstly, we have answered that this has been judged in the case-law of the Ice Bay. Secondly, it's in the public interest. You don't like our answers. Accepted. The majority, however, decided. So no matter how much you yell, that doesn't change. All you do is create impressions. The question put politically about our prolongation and the government, if we support privatization, the answer is obvious on our part and I will deal with this in the next minute of the speech. I respect the JRC and the representative who said what their position is, that they are perpendicular to us. Tell us, however, four and a half years after your government service and today from the headquarters of Anti-Population, what do you stand against privatisation? We, ladies and gentlemen, as much as you shout, will say what we believe is right and the Greek people will listen to us and join us. Since the first day of our governance, we have told you that we will implement a specific plan for strong investment growth in our country. This draft - the Prime Minister made it clear - will have a triangular form. The first aspect is the reduction of taxes. We have already legislated in this direction. The budget and next week is the tax bill in plenary. The second side and a strong banking system, completely different from what you left us behind. Our plan, the HERAKLIS project, as a legislature comes also next week and we will talk about it here. And there, let's see again what you're going to say. The third is the reforms. This bill we are discussing - for which you are certainly not discussing, but you are shouting, you have only sat down two articles from all over the bill - is precisely a reform of major political importance, a reform that - and we are replying to your question very well - bears the ideological stamp of the New Democracy. Our resignation, and we are proud of it, believes in free market, healthy entrepreneurship. It believes in liberalism, efficiency, extroversion, productivity, and yes, in the private sector's initiative, which you have smuggled in the past few years. Only a strong private sector can create jobs and good jobs and well-paid jobs. Your policy leads to company closures, workers redundancy, then zero wages. What you are expressing, in addition to your false logic, is just the power from the past, the power of populism and the introversion of our economy. You are simply followers of an outdated detainee of over decades of statement, of a subsidized policy that you have conducted for election purposes - and failed - and of course of this amazing pasture entrepreneurship, if you remember. We, however, have no ideals and do not get tired of you. We shall proceed on the road that the majority of the Greek people have taken us. We want to change page and this bill here actually captures this page change. I will say again, not to bore colleagues, simply because I understand that the numbers have to be left, you got PPC, and Mr Skourletis, who was the Minister at the time, when he handed it over, didn't tell us anything about them. Yes, he had 90 million profits in 2014 and delivered 900 debts. It had 9.1 billion stock exchanges and a maturity of 1.4 and you delivered a value of 300 and a maturity of 2.5. The price of the share that we would like you to comment on, if you can, in January 2015, before you take over, was at 5,70 euros. The share when you hand over the government was 2.25 euros. Today, after four months, it has gone up to 3,16 euros. We want you to tell us something about it, too. Your overall course, what you left behind, but also our courage, once again, makes me say the simple thing to understand it and I hope your speech will be in this direction from now on. You have no right to blame anyone. You're indicted and registered as defendants for the case in consciousness...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u377	Will you take us to jail?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u378	We don't take people to prison. You set ten polls here to take the political opponents to prison. You have been recorded as defendants in the conscience of the Greek people. Your hugs, your friendships and colleges with Mr. Fotopoulou, who had done his own with PPC, but also with Mr. Liberopoulos who you took him last - in your ranks, show exactly where you belong and where you want to take the country. We've been through S.H.I.E.L.D. for the day. I don't think I need to abuse time. You've stolen too much from me, and let me not steal from my fellow Members. I just wanted to say a word, by closing, on the issue of 1% on agricultural land, because I come from a rural area as well. If you haven't figured out what the ministers were saying before, we're fine. You may understand it when you read it. But if you have understood and really disagreed, it would be very good if you would go to the next television broadcasts, but also to the debates that will take place in this House, to place and speak directly - and I hope that the SYRIZA Members will do so - that you are against the amendment we have said to increase the percentage that farmers will take. To explain this to them, to have honest situations between us and to be honest for once with the Greek farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u379	The power of an MW is not for farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u380	You haven't understood anything yet. You're on a different wavelength. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about another thing. Your colleagues will explain. In any case, by closing my intervention, I wanted to say that you have decided, you have chosen to be toward us, to be with the artisans and activists of the margin. You have decided to stand against the great majority of the Greek people, who not all support us, but support the logic of development, support the logic of the free economy in our country. We have decided that no matter what you say, no matter how much you say, no matter how much you try to oppress us, we will serve the interests of many Greeks, who are our only commanders. We will fight to become Greece, against your will, modern, liberal, productive country. Obviously, with these thoughts and those answers, waiting for your positions, we will be voting in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u381	Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor as expected.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr President. I was invited by the New Democracy Parliamentary spokesman with comments on morality, not only my own, but also my colleagues and colleagues from SYRIZA, to withdraw what I said a moment ago and I will say again from the Step of the House, that Mr Mitsotakis bought votes from Mr Father in exchange for a state position in the hospital. I do not withdraw it, and when the Houseary Representative of the New Democracy makes comments on the principle of morality, it should be said: in this instance, on the SYRIZA side, we have a moral attitude that does not allow us to sell votes, Mr Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u383	When you gave the hundreds to the retired...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u384	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u385	Mr President, I am going to start and not respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u386	Please listen to the procedure now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u387	All right, let's hear it. On the basis of the roll-call vote by Mr Karathanasopoulos, the procedure is as follows: Will the votes take place tomorrow at 14 noon? and the process will be completed today. To complete the process today, you understand that we must be careful in our time. Because we have at least forty colleagues to talk to Chiefs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-three students and students and four teachers from the Elementary School of Nuremous Lefkada. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Bakadima has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u388	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall begin with and not refer to hospital administrations, even though it is not just Mr. Father's problem. The General State of Nice also presents a similar problem to the new Deputy Commander. But I'll start and stay in the bill. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the current draft law, which is proposed by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, is entitled: 'Delimination of the energy market, modernisation of PPC, privatisation of PPC and support for RES'. Let us remember that the government is literally following its programme statements, since the Prime Minister has referred to this liberalisation of the energy market, or - to put it right - to the sale of PPC. After the programming, the next step came with the increases that were adopted and were implemented in August on the pretext that the viability of the energy company is at stake. The well-known recipe for neoliberalism was followed, with the depreciation of public business in this regard, which produces a social asset necessary for the lives of the citizens. Subsequently, the price increase, which aims to make consumers angry and, gradually, to start leaving, seeking private companies that provide the same good, using the public company’s network. Thus, the value of the company is reduced, which is ultimately privatised or better sold at a degrading price. The humiliation of PPC, which attempts in this draft law, accompanies provisions that bring down tariffs, but only for customers with high consumption, the complete overthrow of labour relations within the company through the total overthrow of collective negotiations and the promotion of individual contracts specifically for newly recruited and increased wages, along with a special labour regime for external partners, while at the same time providing for a circumvention of the ADP, allowing recruitment with fixed-term individual contracts, with a three-year power, freeing the remuneration for contractors. There is no provision in the draft law on what will be done with company officials leaving the management position they held, as well as for executives who have come from the market. At the same time, there is no safety test, which will prohibit the return of former members of the organization who are retired, so that they can come back with such a contract, attempting to return to the 'active action' and, indeed, with wages outside the designated wall. The whole process will have the effect of splitting two-speed workers across the level of employees. It is enough, of course, to remember that before there were cases of Golden Boys of PPC, which received great pay and other privileges, to consider where today's bill can lead to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the circumvention of PPC's industrial relations is the first step that will lead to the company being divested. A step which becomes more decisive with the "salinisation" and the break-up of the PPC between the infrastructure, marketing and international projects. Thus, there is a partial division of the infrastructure sectors of international projects and marketing of the existing PPC and the establishment of two new companies called PPAs and PPAs of International Works, while the existing company keeps the marketing. Following this restructuring, the GOI is expected to sell, through international competitions, 65% of the FIFG's infrastructure and commerce, which will, without any doubt, mark the full privatisation of the company. It is worth noting that PPC's employees from the beginning were opposed to the bill, denounced the secession and privatization of the TEN, the sharp reduction in public participation in IPTO and the total overthrow of labour relations. After all, they had a protest gathering today. As a mera25 the subject of energy has dealt with us from the outset. We firmly believe that the potential for growth by mining and using fossil fuels has been exhausted worldwide. Undoubtedly, in future, growth will come only from technologies that achieve zero even negative greenhouse gas balances. After all, as a country that pays great fines due to waste, we must bear in mind that if we continue with this pattern of production of electricity, we will in future be called upon to pay much of our budget to fines for pollutants. The main pillar of the Merra25 programme, ladies and gentlemen, is the preparation of a programme of complete decommissioning from fossil fuels by 2040, while extending the RES, always in balance with economies of scale and environmental protection, respecting geology, natural ecosystems and their natural beauty. It is necessary to combine the local potential for geothermal, solar, water, biomass and wind turbines for energy production. Moreover, the production of energy from RES may belong to a wide range of producers, which may clearly include PPC, as well as 'energy citizens' initiatives, as has been the case in many European countries. It is also necessary to place emphasis on local energy production, bioclimatic architecture and other innovations, such as the use of LED technology for public space lighting. However, it is also necessary to draw up a collective plan on energy in our country. A plan that has to be detailed and followed literally so that by strategic steps we can bring our country to the 21st century and energy. It is not possible to talk about technological development and 5G networks, at the same time that we are still relying on lignite. We cannot continue to rely on the pillaging of natural resources, which was the foundation stone of the post-war growth model. At the same time, we find it unacceptable that this bill, with its provisions, establishes a private monopoly on natural gas, which, together with PPC's increases and sales, will increase the cost of meeting the energy needs of all of us and of course - as always is the case with this tactic - will be affected and hurt by the weaker groups and our fellow people, who already have great difficulty in meeting their economic needs. Because there is always no control over the disposal price in cases of such monopolies, since there is no other supplier or supplier. Regrettably, once again, the sell-out is being baptised'seed-up' and'modernisation'. Once again, in the name of growth, workers' rights are being violated and people's basic needs are being neglected, with the sole and ultimate aim of satisfying the demands and pursuits of the local oligarchy, which once again seeks to increase their profits and to enrich them to the detriment of the rest of the people, especially the back of the weak, whom we, as representatives of all Greeks, must protect and not leave them northwards to speculators and entrepreneurs. And because perhaps the term "shop" sounds graphical and undeniably used in recent years, let me prove to you with evidence that, in the case of PPC, not only does it make sense, but it takes flesh and bone. If we look at the price of the company's share - which was the only electricity company in Greece - it fell from the 37 euros that ranged from December 2007 to 1.4 euros in May 2019. So if privatisation was the ultimate goal, why was it not chosen to be at a time when the share price would be higher and now it is about EUR 3? If we're talking about proper privatisation, which would aim to exploit the company, why didn't it happen then? Why do we choose to sell her out now? [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable to continue past practices aimed at the full benefit of a public company with the total levelling-up of its entire business model, while restructuring other subsidiaries, with a view to becoming attractive and to approaching'strategic investors' that will take them at a low price. In recent years, moreover, we have had many examples of these, such as OTE, OSE, regional airports and so many others. It's probably PPC time. As it seems, unfortunately, it is not expected to change the reasoning of the Greek governments that adopt the growth model of gifts. Permanent victim? Citizens. Paradoxical loss? The possibility of designing a real development plan which would make use of the strong elements of our country and would stimulate any good points of public enterprises in order to make them strong and positive, without any additional costs being passed on to consumers. The crew of time has arrived and we must finally show the necessary political will that does not appear to exist. I fear that it will be confirmed, although for the sake of all of us and the future of the next generations, I would like Nikos Gatsossos, who at the last turn of Kemal, says that "this world will never change". This world can change and we have a duty to try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u389	Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you a briefing. We're on number thirty. I was informed that Mr Varoufakis will be speaking sometime later as President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group. Parliamentary representatives have completed their positions. If the time is up, we'll go at 2:00. I propose that, as an alternative, instead of the twelve o'clock at midnight, said by the Conference of Presidents, we go to 1: 00. We'll take it over an hour. In order for all Members to speak the time from seven minutes, which has certainly not been observed, because if it had been observed we will now be at least forty minutes to go to five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u390	It can't be, Mr. President. They've spoken thirty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u391	Mrs Fotou, otherwise some colleagues will not speak at the end. There is also a third alternative. It is Mr Janakopoulos here at a happy time and Mr Lebanese. I would like you two to know whether - I am making a proposal outside the Rules of Procedure - it is a gentlemen's agreement - to withdraw from four and four colleagues - because the other parties do not have, are New Democracy and SYRIZA from what I have seen - so that we can get out of one hour and one hour at 1: 00 to 1: 15 to finish. Don't answer me about that now. If you agree, the problem is solved, without reducing the time for colleagues. So until, Mrs Fotio, I have an answer, whether positive or negative, come to Step for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u392	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u393	But for a minute, Mr. Dritsa. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u394	Mr President, you know that better than I do that the Rules of Procedure of the House have three articles which deal in detail with the procedure under Article 2. This tradition in the Greek Parliament was cut with the memorandum. Instead of having a meeting at the outset and two, three and four times as we had in the past on the articles when the bills were large, we have now made one meeting a status. I would ask you, as an oldest person, to take the initiative and return the parliamentary order to this Parliament now that the memoranda is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Drizza, you're absolutely right. Personally, I endorse your objection. Incidentally, however, in the last Conference of Presidents, Mr Karathanasopoulos raised this issue first, as you put it, and Mr Voutsis supported it, and I and the President of Parliament promised that he would do everything he could to get back to what we older people knew, one day at first and another on articles. Not only will I go against you, but I sign it. Mrs. Fotio has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u396	That is a very good proposal, Mr President, and your consent. Ladies and gentlemen, with jokes, with intelligent rhetoric and poaching, there is the dissolution of our country's largest public development arm, PPC, which took precedence over the economy and the development of the country. The government is determined to impose the full privatization of our country's energy, because it is treated as a marketable product of course of enormous economic interest and therefore a privileged field for the uninterrupted action of the market forces, namely the business interests it favours. It is well known, it has been said here many times, that we should say again, so that the Greek people, who are excluded from the channels, because they repeat the well-known lies, see Parliament - and will see it by 1:00 or so, Mr President, when advanced countries such as Austria, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland and France are monitoring the public's major energy infrastructures, while countries like Germany are going through hundreds of republication of public infrastructures of this kind, because they have experienced the negative effects of privatisation, Greece today, now that we have come out of the memoranda, intends to sell out the natural monopolies of the electricity and gas networks, after of course their full reparation to which the Government has been delivered in the context of the methodology before any privatisation. I will not dwell on the circumvention of the AACC to recruit staff, for which the current operational contract does not apply, nor on the provision of provision for the Golden Boys in the New Democracy, whose remuneration will be determined by the recruitment and pay board without ceiling, nor on the fact that the public cars used by them will run without a cubic capacity. All of this is obvious and fair, since the Golden Boys of the New Republic cost dearly because they are excellent. We were also shown this by the recent appointments of the hospital managers at the height of the day on the resigned new commander of the Carditsa Hospital who, in his naive sense, burned the account of excellence on camera and at the same time revealed how the rouste is made at the prime minister level. The important thing is that the strategy of the government fails to meet two objectives which are at the heart of our own understanding. The treatment, firstly, of energy poverty and, secondly, of climate change. Because you told us that in 2014 you left us a client account of six hundred thousand consumers in PPC, to remind you that these six hundred thousand customers did not pay. They were cut off. Ninety thousand people lived without power. Let me remind you that multiples of unthinkable unpaid bills were found in thousands of families. Improve methods of heating, with handkerchiefs, with which matter looked like a fuel, with deaths of fumes to remind you - it's not old, it's five years ago - from fires. With the law to deal with the humanitarian crisis, then, in March 15 we reconnected ninety thousand cut streams to households free of charge, 300 kWh free of charge for every household that could not pay its electricity. We have then organised, in cooperation with the management of the company, a system for regulating debts so that they can be repaid, and finally, we have reduced VAT to benefit all consumers and not only those living in extreme poverty. All this, at the moment, has been done with the synergies of PPC, with the synergies of these people who are today deceiving them and trying to create a social automation for them. So you are privatising what has been left in the public by depriving the State of the ability to exercise public policy in favour of the weak and against energy poverty, so it is no coincidence that during the constitutional review New Democracy refused to vote for a provision on access for all to clean and economically accessible energy and now the reason is: it does not intend to pursue policies that ensure low energy and access to all citizens and businesses. What's very important? That you give the sale of claims to private funds which will of course be able to claim the claims due to the company free of any social criterion. Now, however, it is not less the role that energy plays in tackling climate change, as the Bank of Greece notes. And here I will read you from the Bank of Greece's report: "Critical change with energy poverty creates a vicious circle that is defined in international literature as energy and climate poverty". You, your Prime Minister, cut off for climate change! It says the Bank of Greece: "It is the vicious cycle of poverty - the absence of access to energy and technology and reduced protection against damage due to climate change". [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. It continues: 'This is a problem for the resolution of which public intervention is required. The public service obligation must be upgraded.’ Mr Stournaras says that, I'm not saying it. Instead of public service, we have PPC's privatisation, the country's large public development arm in the hands of private capital. They'll pay for that, the weak layers and the middle layers. You know, these don't forget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u397	We're moving on with Mr. Charitou Dimitrios. In a parable case there is also the 'Takis'. How do you prefer to be called?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u398	Dimitrios.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u399	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u400	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I listened very carefully to you present a series of reports which you have devoted almost most of your speech. In fact, however, with all the presentation you have made, you have questioned the viability and prospects of the company itself. Of course, I'm not going to dwell on the smarts. I think they're not worth commenting. However, I have not heard you - and I say this sincerely - present a comprehensive plan for the rescue and recovery of the company. I have not heard any references to development programmes, energy investment. Repeat once again what we hear from the first day you came out, a constant danger to its sustainability and its defamation at every opportunity. After all, on this, you have pressed to move on to unjustified increases in tariffs, increases with which you will charge to each family EUR 100 per annum. You have achieved the impossible within a few months, you have persecuted the good customers of PPC to its competitors and instead of rescuers, Minister, you have become the customer of the company. But what is the big reform step you are taking with this bill? Change working relationships for the new workers who will be employed from now on. Congratulations, you're getting a lot of incision! Why? Because - it says - wage weight is unstable and you want to lighten it. So, apparently they do, so they want the interests you talk to to to sell it out. So lighten it when it comes to the new workers you hire, and when it comes to the Golden Boys you're hiring, there's no burden, they're obviously allowed everything, because they're going to serve your overall plan to privatise the company. If, indeed, you have a plan and a programme for the development of PPC, I would like to ask you, Minister, why do you not go ahead with the development of new units, where the conditions and possibilities exist? Why don't you develop the second unit at PPC's thermal power plant in Komotini, which, moreover, has a second unit, since it has all the capabilities and conditions in a critical and with great geopolitical significance? But you seem to have your mind elsewhere, not to develop PPC but to amputate it, because at the same time you are going to license there, next to new private interest units at a much higher cost. Gentlemen of the majority, you are enacting the concession to private individuals of the entire percentage of DEPA public. What don't you understand? That you're legislating to sell off the natural gas networks? That you're setting up a private monopoly on the networks? That you have in this way called into question the creation and expansion of the networks when you know very well that they will no longer be subject to social needs but only to the rule of private profit? If, Minister, you agree that the transition fuel is natural gas, what is your plan? What are the targets you set? What are your ambitions? We didn't hear anything. If your only ambition, apparently, is to give it all to private interests, congratulations! However, I ask you directly: Since the public will be withdrawn, how will you ensure that gas supply and the most remote parts of the place in most of the population and businesses is guaranteed? Ladies and gentlemen, decades have waited for the citizens of eastern Macedonia and Thrace to see the gas. All pipelines pass through a narrow area and households and businesses have not yet seen a cubic centimeters of natural gas and now that the moment has arrived, now that the competition for the networks is being opened in the five major cities, you come and bring them up - down. I ask you: will the public procedure continue or will the private monopoly be undertaken? In any event, the guarantees given by the public body, Minister, of the low cost for all citizens and businesses to cover almost all regions will apply or be modified by the private monopoly at the appropriate time? Ladies and gentlemen, there are no guarantees, no margins, and once the public has withdrawn areas, they will expect and even wait for those living the weakest economic strata, because others will be the priorities: the greatest, the most affordable flows where private profit is obviously the largest. It is certain that the citizens who are following us should know that the cost of access to gas from households and businesses will be increased. You promised - and the Prime Minister personally - that Thrace would be a model of development throughout the country. None of this is going to happen, because in another direction your policy is moving slowly, but it is stable, thankfully, the citizens of our country are aware of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u401	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for the exact respect of time. Mr. Eleftherios Avramakis has him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when the New Democracy Government has destroyed every sense of dignity and dignity, at a time when rousfetti, partisanism, the decommissioning of the state machine and public administration by friends, "lovers" and best mans is now daily, at a time when cynically some teenager eighty-dog says that he had agreed to electorate at the Carditsa Hospital, we are invited by the government to participate in the divestment and sale of public property. I was amazed to hear the Member of the New Democracy, Mr. Pilari, swinging our fingers in the morning and accuse us of saying that we have the political courage to talk about PPC, which we led to bankruptcy in his words. We're being indicted by who? Those who led the country to bankruptcy and rocks. Who? Those who still owe as a party to banks, insurance funds and their employees. Who? Those who only yesterday voted for the immunity of bankers for maritime loans to parties, media and entrepreneurs, even to political leaders who happen to be prime ministers today. Who? Those who decided to release captive property from the Greek State, derived from criminal activity. Irrespectively Savages! On the occasion of today's bill and all the initiatives of the Government, it is becoming increasingly clear that the public interest in the New Democracy is the discharge of the Greek state from every critical and nationally important infrastructure, the creation of an environment that will allow private investors to undertake the works and services offered by the Greek state. Investors, however, who do not want to produce and create wealth, but want to place their money on ready, viable and profitable or potential profitable businesses with the aim of over-profit. They are not interested in matters of national importance, nor in social justice, nor in society's overall prosperity. In 2010 mainly, however, since 2012, the Greek people considered that all the austerity policies and the blackmail efforts to divest public property were the result of the obsessions of the lenders. Today it is shown that all these policies are being expelled from policies of New Democracy and neoliberalism. Starting with PPC, the government attempts an unprecedented, cynical bypass of PPC, roundly restores the customer relations of the greedy species, gives thoughtlessly critical infrastructure of the state. There is no need to mention the fact that the reconstruction of Greece and the development of Greece in the previous century was based on PPC. Its systematic repayment by the government within five months has already reduced its value. The increase in electricity tariffs for professionals, farmers and households has already led many consumers to alternative suppliers and suppliers. I am not sure whether the government is seeking to sell PPC out and exempting it from the burden of high wage costs or simply seeking to dissolve it and gradually replace it by its competitors. In fact, whatever happens, I don't know what's worse. The firm of cancellation in practice of labour relations and labour rights in PPC is not a mere case. It is a crack test to extend to other critical sectors of the public this model of administration and cessation of rights that have been conquered in recent decades. The government is testing another recipe. It does not abolish collective agreements for today's workers, but replaces them for new workers. Other, inferior wages for young people, voluntary exit and other public services for older and more expensive workers. In common, to empty PPC from wage costs, to transfer people to other public services, regardless of their needs and with questions about the wages to be paid to the employees. If this model of overthrowing of these contracts succeeds, it is certain that it will apply to the rest of the public. What the memorials have not been achieved, the rental of workers of the past, the reduction of wages and austerity, now wants the neoliberal party to succeed in claiming that it has the popular mandate to move forward in this direction. Except he didn't say that in an election. The New Democracy has been ordered to reduce taxes and create new and better jobs as a whole. What it does, however, is to increase the payroll for its party executives, to unleash public property and create new but worse jobs for the Greek people. The big question is why the government is going to give private individuals the electricity and gas networks, i.e. the entire public infrastructure covering the energy needs of the country of the Greek people and businesses. To date we have known economic poverty in Greece. Now the conditions are being shaped to get to know energy poverty. What interests are served by suspending the extension of natural gas networks? What interests are served by the withdrawal of the Greek State from the exploitation of the hydrocarbons you are going to take? What public need, anyway, do you cover from the retreat of the Greek state for the sake of multinational companies? I will once again invoke the example of the poorest county in Greece, the Serres Prefecture, which I have the honour to represent. In June 2019, the natural gas network expansion projects were to be launched in order to allow most Serres residents to connect to the network. Because of the elections there have been delays. In August of this year, the TENs launched the first tenders for the supply of materials, namely distribution stations, measuring stations and regulation for the supply of large quantities, smart meters and other necessary materials to expand the network. The project to be done was about one thousand and fifty kilometers of network total for eighteen cities, including Serres and thirty - eight hundred new and free connections. If the timetable of the TEN was complied with at least for Serres Law, we would have doubled the number of workers and the links. This would mean the largest service to the public of the city of Serres through the gas supply process. This small job support would be very important for a county like ours. When will this network expansion take place in the city of Serres? It's unknown now. The Government is selling the networks without committing investors to expand the existing network. It considers that it is in their interest to extend it. It does not, however, calculate the weighting of interests and the hierarchy of expansion depending on the profit and the possibility of more rapid depreciation of investments. It does not even ensure that there will be new free connections as provided for in the plan of the TEN. It is going to create a private monopoly, without guaranteeing either the network expansion, the new links, or the European resources guaranteed by the public guarantee. So we ask: will the European funds that would finance the projects be used by the private sector? Is the European Bank financing guaranteed by the Greek State applicable to the private investor with the same guarantees? If the private person decides to leave, what's going on? He will again undertake to pay for the broken neoliberalism of the Greek people. The extension of the natural gas network to Serres Law cannot be treated simply in terms of the cost of an investment. We have been at the border with Bulgaria and we have been facing unfair competition from the neighbouring country for decades. Now with your own actions, you have a strategic advantage in Bulgaria, since there will be a more rapid development of the natural gas network from our region with what this may mean in terms of the installation of new industries in our region. Why would a private investor give...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u403	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u404	...in the network of Thessaloniki? It will in future allow for an extension at regional level, such as the city of Serres. It will also happen in other regions of Macedonia. To sum up, the government with this bill opens the way to circumventing the SAAP, creates a private monopoly on natural gas networks, stops the expansion of the networks in the Greek region. In conclusion, I will mention the Serres Prefecture, that this means less investment, less prospects and less jobs. Your love for the region that gave birth to your founder Constantine Karamanlis is moving us. But a little bit of it if we are to be able to get through and develop, at last, on equal footing with the other regions of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u405	Let's move on. Mr. Davakis has been deleted. There's been a mutual change. Mr. Constantine Barkas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u406	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would like to begin by condemning the attack on the person of journalist Dimitris Manatis a few hours ago by a government official, Minister, from the one Mr Mitsotakis placed as the second head of the government's programme for unaccompanied minors, who, Mr President, with a vulgar announcement he called on the newspaper in which Mr Manatis works, because he criticised the lady who has been in charge, the national coordinator for the unaccompanied. The state, therefore, because it does not control, Minister, a number of journalists - because it considers the rest of them to be inspected - is asking for their expulsion. I think that, as a political system, we, as a Parliament, should condemn such attacks. Sadly, such behaviors are only observed in the worst dictatorships! Mr President, in the last 24 hours we have been in front of things that I think are the culmination of the role that New Democracy wants to have in the state, in the government and in the country, a state that she described as a perfection and which is the only one that cannot be designated. I believe, Mr President, that we are faced with the absolute humiliation of a party, which considers it to be defending democracy in our country and which, of course, has helped from the years of post-population and then to unite around the world that is truly a democrat. And I am speaking, Mr President, about the absolute humiliation of the government, the absolute humiliation of the state, but also of the absolute humiliation of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which, Mr President, has to defend acts of the government that expose it. Today we have had the revelations of Mr Mitsotakis' rosé and I think it is a top political issue, which cannot be passed like this, arrogant drinks. So what do we got? We have a appointed commander of a hospital to admit he's been dealing with the country's Prime Minister. These things are too serious for you to get over it! So what did the particular gentleman, Mr. Father say? "I have asked the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, that is, when it becomes power, because I did not want to take part in the New Democracy ballot in Trikala, to give me one of the two seats. Mr Mitsotakis agreed, in exchange for the power and army I have in my region." This, Mr President, is a tale, it is a clear tale between the Prime Minister, the first citizen of the country, with only one man for votes. Of course, the New Democracy MPs have found the courage to come here today and ask for the floor and say a lot about the SYRIZA MPs and the dominant slogan they are invoking is that we are with an obsolete state, while they are with the markets, with the people they are studying, doing everything else. So because they are with them, they were appointed by party criteria only in the positions of hospital administrations a hundred and ten members of their party! I won't tell about the rest. I will not say for Mr. Tachiau, your failed candidate head of mayor in Thessaloniki and a failed state appointed or others, but I will refer to only a hundred ten administrations of hospitals. However, the answer to the state that you are accusing us, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, comes from your political ruler, the man who has the political hegemony in your place and is Mr Vorides - and congratulations on that too. What did Mr. Vorides say this morning? "And who can we get? Foreigners?’ Foreigners, therefore, for you, gentlemen, of the New Democracy, young children who are undergraduate! Foreigners all who filed their papers and had the qualifications needed to get into hospital administrations! But are the best friends not foreign to you, as Mr Jekalayas admitted, your MP in Kastoria, who said what? He called the Minister, Mr. Kikilia, and made an intervention for his best man and friend, said a good conversation, to get a commander into the Kastoria Hospital! That's what you're defending! That's how you understand the state. You do not understand this and you make a terrible mistake. You demand more power and more wealth, even economic wealth, around Mr. Mitsotakis. This has once cost you politically, between 1990 and 1993. I'm afraid it'll cost you one more time. Of course, I cannot go along with another example in my area. That's where we had something great! The secretary of the NOTE Artas became commander at the Preveza Hospital and former secretary of the NOE Preveza at the Artas Hospital! We have tabled a proposal with Mrs Gerovas, and we have told you that every rascal should go to his counter, that we also have locality, and of course you should rid them of costs! It is a solution, Minister, and this one is a fantastic solution! And, of course, no number for those commanders who come out one - one on the surface. Mr Hatzidakis, with the bill we are debating here today, you have a global originality. You are the Minister who sold "Olympic", today he sells PPC and you are the only Minister who succeeded in two top cases of the political and economic life of our country to create monopolies. Because, Mr. Hatzidakis, you're with the state-owned oligarchs. That's where you want wealth to go, that's where you're defending them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by that phrase. So far, only one political nightmare had been mentioned in the modern history of our country, a nightmare of national interests. Unfortunately, Mr President, today the figure of a second nightmare for our country is being deleted, and unfortunately this second nightmare comes from the same political family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u407	Well, now that Mr Barcas has finished and despite our personal friendship, I have to read out - so that you know that from now on I will not tolerate it - Article 66(8), which says: 'The speaker cannot move away from the subject under discussion. Otherwise, the President invites him to come back to this. If he doesn't comply, the President warns him he'll take his word off. Although after the new labelling the speaker does not return to the matter, the President shall remove the floor.' Of the seven minutes that you had, Mr. Barkas, 6.36, you talked about things weird from the bill under discussion. Is that right? To know, when we are invoking to observe the Rules of Procedure, to observe it for ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u408	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u409	I didn't ask you to sit down, I read the Rules of Procedure. What can you tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u410	On staff, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u411	Let it now, let's turn it off here in a mild way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u412	I've had a drink. We'll shut it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u413	Mr. Barca, please. Did I say anything that didn't happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u414	Did I say that, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u415	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u416	Mr President, I didn't even speak. I didn't say you said something wrong. I would like to thank you for your intervention...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u417	I said this in general at the occasion of your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u418	Mr President, I thank you for the speech you are making and I hope that all the Bureau and all the President-in-Office will make the necessary contributions to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u419	I can speak for myself alone, not for the co-chairmen. Now, as he has the right, he has asked - and he will have - the floor for the nine minutes that he is responsible for speaking about a part of the draft law which Mr Hatzidakis has not covered in his speech because he has the authority of the State Secretary. But before that, I will read the names of the five colleagues - although I have seen that you are all here - who will then be given the floor: Mrs Theodora, Mr Papadopoulos Michalis, Mrs Kaphetaris Charas, Mr Vardakis Socrates and Mrs Eleftheriadou Sultana. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u420	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise a few points which have been discussed today and have not been covered by the Minister. I'm starting with the energy market. The will is to move on to the proper organization of the energy market in our country. It is an issue on which Greece continues to be late, has been delayed many times, the operation and preparation of the target model has been delayed and not only the starting point of the target model has been delayed, but the necessary steps have not been taken to operate the market after the establishment and operation of this market. We have continuous delays, which must be speeded up. We've taken certain steps. We started with the operation of the Regional Coordinating Centre in Thessaloniki. The agreement has been reached with Italy and Bulgaria. Therefore, we have in Thessaloniki a Regional Coordinating Centre for the purchase of energy. We are also moving on from similar regional initiatives with Italy, Bulgaria and Romania to the energy stock exchange in Athens and ATHEX CLEAR and the 'clearing' mechanisms. We are still moving on with the harmonisation of Greek legislation with European legislation on this. There is the REMIT Regulation. Many questions have been asked about derivatives, about hedging possibilities in energy markets. It is something provided for by European legislation, which we need to move forward so that different suppliers can operate and reduce their market risk. Examples have been given from California, examples that do not match the European model. I would remind you that in Europe there are over a million and a half people, who are negotiating in derivatives in the European Union every year, more than they are in America, and that ensures the proper functioning of the energy markets in the European Union and in countries such as Germany, France and all countries where the energy markets are operating well. Article 2 also strengthens the responsibilities of RAE in line with the Regulation on transparency and integrity in energy markets, without in any way affecting or affecting the powers of the Competition Committee. For this reason, these markets can function properly and even produce derived products. In addition, fines have been introduced, which are higher than other countries in the world and the European Union. It's 1 million euros on a personal level and 10% on the rest of the issues. Some comments were made on the country's rate of defoliation. We all know that by summer the prediction was the liberation to take place until 2047. It is something that has been debated since 2010. In fact, things have not been done. We've been here and it hasn't been prepared since 2010. It is not necessary for Greece to always be the last country to do everything in the European Union. I would remind you that eleven countries have already come out of lignite, such as Belgium. Austria will come out in 2020, Denmark and France in 2022, Slovakia in 2023, Italy and Ireland in 2025, Finland and the Netherlands in 2029. Germany is talking about 2035, but the political debate is how this pace will be accelerated. With the previous plan of the previous government, most of the units would have been closed by 2027 and three units would have stayed after 2027. We are therefore speeding up this process with a proper design, which will allow the country to return a page more quickly and move on to green growth, with green investments. In these regions, production has been slowly reduced by 50%, without the necessary projects to accompany development in this region. We are preparing a master plan which, until summer, will allow green growth with the new period of structural funds, which will start from 2021, with the European Fair Transfer Fund and the Hellenic Fair Transfer Fund, which will be supported with an additional EUR 30 million this year and with EUR 130 million from the end for PPC. Natural gas. A lot has been discussed about the role of gas as a transitional fuel. The role is not to further strengthen natural gas as a fuel in the country. The transition will make renewable energy the main fuel in the country over the next twenty years. The strategy is to use gas as a transition fuel with its forward use in the 2020-2030s. The role of the public has been discussed. As the Minister said, there has already been the privatisation of the CRS and it is going very well on the distribution of gas. We have the example of the TEN. The TEN is 100% state. We have not made progress in creating networks in all areas where TEN is the TEN. Therefore, it does not offer the appropriate model. Nevertheless, because questions have been asked about whether the projects that have been launched will proceed, until privatisation takes place, the TEN will continue. There are discussions with the European Investment Bank and with the IPCC. This week and next week, the projects that have been launched will also continue the regions or municipalities that have moved forward with the TEN and have been approved by the RAE for the projects that will be done, will proceed. The works, which have begun, do not stop. The aim is to put new capital into these companies, to have an investor who will be left for at least five years, trapped, not to be investors who come and leave, as has been done in the past, and who will be able to develop under the supervision of the regulator and the state. Discussions focused on themes of trans-European projects. This year we have already put on the trans-European networks the works of Alexandroupolis and Kavala, the gas tank in Kavala, which will enhance the country's energy security and be able to offer the orderly operation and competition, as this comes from only one country, mostly, until very recently in Greece. So we have a very ambitious programme for renewable energy, which will reach 35% by 2030 and higher in 2040-2050. There's steady steps going on. This is the first step, and I told the committee, in order to unblock authorisations, to unblock payments which have been unpaid, and that is why a number of articles are being made which have been cleared up, with guarantees, with administrative contingencies, which did not allow these investments to be promoted, but there will be two more steps. One in the first quarter of 2020, where we will make a lot of changes to the authorisation of renewable energy and one in the second quarter of 2020, so that we can radically change the issue of licensing. We've put the electromobile issue forward. Again, it is the first step, which will be another legislative initiative in the next year, so that we can introduce the framework for electricity mobility in the country, so that we can create a framework for the next ten years. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u421	As I said before, Mr Varoufakis will now be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u422	Mr President, I would ask you to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u423	Mr President, wait a minute. Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u424	Mr President, on the basis of your proposal, we have consulted Mr Lebanese and we will bring you the names. But I must say, and I know that you agree, like most in this Chamber, that it is not right for Members to resolve the problems arising from the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u425	I fully agree, but my experience shows that sometimes the proposal I have made is better than us to resolve it. Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u426	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the pre-election period, Mer25 warns that the new New Democracy government that was coming and now is here would build the most parasitic oligarchy on the foundations of SYRIZA's fourth memorial. I remember when I first saw it in this Chamber, a colleague from the JRC with some irony saying to me: 'Well, is there an oligarchy that is not parasitic'? Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is as if it was written to show that yes, there is indeed parasitic oligarchy and is really ready to rave in the name of PPC's modernization and rescue of new excursions, new revenues, new raids on the common and common wealth. Minister, let me speak very well and soberly. Your PPC bill is anti-liberal, anti-liberal, anti-social, and especially anti-ecological, so we will vote against it. It is anti-liberal because it humiliates the concept of free market and market competition. This is because it aims to abolish what has been left in this country to protect wage earners. You start from PPC, like Mrs Thatcher started with the miners, to hit the sector with the strongest trade union as a preamble to an overall attack on all workers and in favour of full commercialisation of labour. It is antisocial because it premiums even greater inequality of income and assets in a country where four plus seven Memorandums brought inequality to Bananas levels. It is anti-ecological, because it delivers renewable energy sources without a programme, without social or environmental control to these oligarists and thus eliminates the hopes of an effective, decentralised electricity generation and distribution network produced from renewable energy sources with technologies produced in turn in our country. However, let us take things from the start, it is important that the electricity sector should never be competitive or operate under free market conditions, so that it can be delivered to private individuals as an anti-liberal oligarchic act that they are obliged to condemn, not only the economists, the greens, the Marxists, but also the genuine liberals. A electricity distribution or transmission network is the designation of the natural monopoly. The same applies to a large extent to power plants. Huge fixed cost, almost zero marginal cost. That means two things. Firstly, no individual has the size, the economic surface to create it in a way that serves the territory. Proof that it was necessary to create the Public Power Corporation in order to actually power the country. Secondly, no competitor will enter such a network without State interference in favour of it, as the former monopoly or oligopoly, because of almost zero marginal costs, can always throw the price at a level that will economically destroy the new entrepreneur. So when, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, you are talking about competition on the electricity market, you are basically talking about a state-owned oligopoly, where the state intervenes to increase market prices that would return it to the absolute monopoly. Ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, you're one right now, but I'm talking to everyone. Isn't that what you've been doing since 1999? On PASOK you broke the single PPC and actually gave a share of the pie to the known commonly known four, Mr. Bobola, Mr. Latsis, Mr. Vardinoyannis and Mr. Mytilinios. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, after 2004, were you not the ones who imposed increases in PPC tariffs, so that they would cover the highest production costs of the four oligarchs? Together, PASOK and New Democracy, did you not agree to the mechanism for recovering variable costs of third producers that it imposed on PPC? What imposed on her? You forced it to sell at four currents at a price below the daily market price. In fact, you offered the four who, in the meantime, controlled - let us not forget this - public works, the media banks. You guaranteed them guaranteed guaranteed fees from PPC. Where did that sound? Guaranteed by the state of profits to consumers, in the name of the free market and the opposition to stateism! Have you ever met a better example of state hypocrisy? Just to say it, since 1999 PASOK and New Democracy have made the PPC's objective of providing the known four oligarchs. You put them in the game of a play against the property of the Greek people that was built a stone stone from the time of the government of Constantine Karamanlis of the 50s. Then came the bankruptcy of the Greek state because of the unbearable debt they loaded PASOK, New Democracy and the particular fewer, along with others, on the shoulders of the state. First the public went bankrupt, then the banks, then the private sector, businesses, small and medium-sized households. About ten years now everyone owes everyone and nobody can pay. The state's overdue debts to the citizens, the banks' IOU's in the state and, of course, the households that cannot pay for loans, taxes and, of course, PPC. And what are you, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK and New Democracy? You put the well-known charm, the precursor of HISPIA, on PPC account. It was as if you wanted to give PPC the final blow at the time of the crisis. Minister, I have heard you from this forefront speaking with anger and I think also with a fair indignation about how PPC has been forced to go bankrupt in recent years, through the criminal - allegedly - electricity auctions, in fact by force PPC to sell to the four few-farmers much below costs, both under the variable-cost recovery mechanism and the power safeguard mechanism. But you forget that you first started this procedure against PPC. Do you forget that in the first quarter of 2013 you imposed PPC on PPC to grant the four to 105 million euros in one quarter? That in the first quarter of 2014 PPC granted them 55 million? Who were those who started this process? It was you. You are launching this crime against logic, PPC, consumers, citizens. As for you, SYRIZA's friends, what can I say? On the days of the third memorandum that you voted on, you voted and regulations that extended this process, the state-owned oligarchy over PPC. You also required PPC through RAE to sell a certain amount of electricity to the four oligopolists at degrading prices. What did that little present do? They did not pass it in the form of lower invoices to citizens, consumers and businesses. Oh, no. They exported the cheap electricity they grabbed from PPC by buying profits without any risk, no investment, or net income. That is right, Minister, with your act of legislation, abolish these auctions, of which PPC entered 600 million, quite rightly. But you know that we in Mera25 do not forget that this process has been initiated for some time since PASOK, from New Democracy and continued in SYRIZA. I now come to this bill. What does he do exactly? In the first two articles you adopt the Greek Energy Exchange legislated by SYRIZA, making it easier for these specific few-farmers to sell cheap electricity abroad, despite the lack of electricity internally. Do you realize what that means? It means that if a reduction in the cost of production is achieved below the level of Italy, in theory, you encourage them to export electricity, while the tariffs in Greece will not be reduced and competition will not be increased here. In the name of liberalism, the concept of the free market in favour of an oligopoly is affected. Once again, Adam Smith's bones will tremble. You do not have the opportunity to say that you do not know what you are voting for in the name of a liberalism you are engaged in. This is really an anti-liberal bill. The Minister often asks workers to put their backs on to save PPC. What exactly are you asking for? The PPC that has been bankrupt by the well-known few-governed, whom this bill strengthens with ever-increasing returns, should the workers save it with sacrifices? What sacrifices? By accepting the full Americanization of their employment contracts to the fullest satisfaction of the International Monetary Fund, which has been fighting this for years? Accepting new directors, directors-general, deputy directors, plaque-free wages, which you will appoint almost on account of the increased specific weight of the interview, while the young workers in production will receive the minimum wages without any protection? What you're asking them to do. You ask them, at the same time, to accept a large reduction in the deduction that they are entitled to for the quantity of kilowatts from PPC. I will not go into the fairness of this discount for PPC's workers and pensioners. I will only tell you that you may have been distracted by the ideological commitment to hitting this particular group of workers. You reduce the discount to a level which, in essence, stimulates PPC’s employees and pensioners to transfer their account to PPC’s private competitors. In other words, you even expel PPC’s employees from PPC’s clientele. In addition, enter the securitisation of outstanding accounts. For God's sake, Minister! Haven't you learned anything from the toll titration in the government Simitis with the help of 'GOLDMAN SACHS'? Are you going to add something further to what has happened since? You're obviously privatising the debts of the households at PPC to sell them. Where? In the same predatory funds that are currently buying red loans with uneven profit rates from red loans, at the expense of citizens and banks, whose capitalisation collapses through these sales. To have a good question, what haircut are you going to sell? What percentage of the nominal value of the outstanding accounts will you sell? Will you really give the right to the funds that buy these new titles to evict families who have no money to pay? I wonder. Overall, if we look at these regulations, the transfer of wealth and incomes from the public business and workers to the few-government individuals, to the landlords of PPC - as long as they are still public - together with the abolition of the protection given by the collective agreements to the weakest, they achieve two things in the PPC area and very soon everywhere, as this is the model with which you will go in other areas and in the rest of the labour market. Firstly, you are launching economic inefficiency in heaven, and secondly, you are launching social inequality in the heavens. And as if the anti-liberal, anti-social character of the bill is not enough, we have its anti-ecological character. Minister, I know you were one of PPC's supporters in 2013-2014. Then it was clear that you planned to sell hydroelectric power plants to private individuals, along with lakes, rivers, coastal areas. I wonder if this is part of your plan. And if it is part of your plan, in a few years' time, how will you answer our children and our grandchildren when they say: "And you, gentlemen of the Couple, where were you when they sold our rivers and lakes?" We are, however, going to the more general issue that considers the country's ability not to lose the 4th Industrial Revolution, the first green industrial revolution, the one based on decentralised production networks not only of renewable energy, but also on the technologies that will produce it. Let's take the liberation. We are very well aware of the anguish of our fellow citizens in Kozani, Ptolemais, Megalopolis, of what will happen after liberation, which must be done - there is no doubt about that. People know very well there that even to cover all the land with photovoltaic arcs and wind turbines, jobs will be minimal compared to those that will be lost. That's a fact. That we have to do it, we have to do it. What's the solution? The solution is not to give the renewable energy sources to Mr Mytileneios, Mr Kopelouzos, to the gentleman I do not know who, with guaranteed yields, without taking any chances. This, the only thing it will do is, firstly it will continue to be ineffective and, secondly, it will deprive any legalisation between societies, communities, villages, towns, renewable energy sources. Without social control there is no possibility that these communities will accept the investments that will be necessary - not even private investors will - and that are consistent with Greece's participation in the first green industrial revolution. What would it take? It is clear that with electricity we are going to a new structure of industries. We already see today that AUDI has announced that ten thousand jobs have been lost. You know that. That's not the magazine. The movement of capital to electric cars means a significant reduction in all mechanical parts, meaning that the game for electric mobilization will no longer be played in the construction of chassis and cars, but will be played in the manufacture of batteries and in the technology for batteries, where currently China has the great lead. The model to which we should all aim together in this Parliament is in Ptolemais, Kozani, but also in the rest of Greece there should be investments in production and development - in the building development - for batteries. That's where the game's gonna be. What does that mean? It will not be done by liberalising the market, by giving it to the well-known oligarchs who are not going to invest. This needs a pan-European programme. You need to be able to go and ask for a pan-European programme, as proposed by Mera25, for investments by the European Investment Bank, together with support from the European Central Bank. Transnational agreements with China will also be needed. It will need an integrated investment framework so that we can also have a network of decentralised, public energy production and distribution, public without being a state-owned, along with a network of batteries producing modern technologies to support this decentralised network. Nothing in this bill is consistent with such a plan. Nothing in this bill does anything more than go on with PASOK starting in 1999, resulting in inefficiency and this rampant on public property. Ladies and gentlemen, the PPC bill is in the wrong direction since 1999, in the logic of socialism for the very few and the throwing of many into a terrible arena, where only the most parasitic oligarchy is won against consumers, businesses, workers, all those who need a plan that is consistent with the 21st century. We condemn through this bill, if we vote as a Greek Parliament, the continuation of growth, of underdevelopment. For this reason, Mera25 is voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u427	We proceed with the next five colleagues, Mrs. Jack, Mr. Papadopoulos Michalis, Mrs. Kafantaris, Mr. Vardakis and Mrs. Eleftheriadou. Ms. Jackie, a SYRIZA MEP, has the floor. You should know that we're being watched by our fellow citizens. You heard that I said now that the party, because I was notified by my office that they took two of our compatriots, who are blind and who have asked the President-in-Office - they are not obliged to know three hundred names - to say from which party he is speaking. I think it was an extremely good point. It has indeed been very kind. Here you go, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u428	Ladies and gentlemen, while insisting on its original design and on the pretext of PPC's liberation from its tight state embrace, the Ministry of Energy submitted the contested multi-legislative plan for PPC and PPC, with the aim of restoring the status of Ruspheological Recruitment to PPC with, in essence, the imprisonment of PPC, secondly, the control of the administrative hierarchy with non-transparent and undeclared criteria by diversifying the wages of managers and thirdly, the dismantling of the working rights of young workers by abolishing the Staff Regulations, in general application of the New Democracy's policy on the dismantling of all employees' rights. These are provisions that open the way for PPC's appointments, without, in essence, participation of the PPC, leading to the abolition of collective labour agreements, the creation of two-speed workers and the liquidation and partitioning of the administrative pyramid. In accordance with these provisions, the recruitment process through APA is, in fact, abolished and the only change is that an official control of the public service recruitment notice is added, entirely in detail and obviously because it has been imposed by the AACC. It is recalled that PPC’s previous administration had already prepared a draft law, which, in short, said that recruitment, in terms of number and duration of contracts, would be decided by the PPC Board of Directors and would, in any case, prepare them. But this plan, as you can see, has been abandoned. At the same time, the PPC Staff Regulations are abolished for young workers, which means, in practice, total abolition of labour protection, in line with the general view of the Government. In addition, the provisions of the law stipulate that the term of office of directors will be three years. But, if possible, ladies and gentlemen, the issues of the administration's term of office and of the service in general, should be regulated by law and not by internal provisions, the PPC regulation, in breach of the principles of corporate governance. This, ladies and gentlemen, is an indication of the centralisation of the state of Mitsotakis, which instead of supervising PPC, where PPC is guarded by the state and by the supervising Ministry. As far as the famous abolition of perpetuality is concerned, it is another method of activation of social automation. Because, simply, there is no permanentity in PPC. And what the Minister says is just a propaganda to confront PPC's employees with the rest of the private sector. Its real aim, according to the strategic principle of neoliberalism, which the Government of New Democracy is to become all the civil and private workers of a lower god. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill stipulates, first of all, the transfer of Attica, Thessaloniki SAR and the TENS to the new company, DPRK Infrastructure and then the sale of the percentage that the public holds in the infrastructure DPA, which is 65% for private individuals. An investor of more than EUR 550,000,000, estimated to be 65% of the value of fixed assets and the value of the gas distribution network's rights, should not be found, while another private ELPE owns the remaining 35%. It is not understandable why the public divests the fixed distribution networks, to investors when they have already been built or guaranteed grants from the NSRF, from the Public Investment Programme and from low-interest loans from the European Investment Bank, as is the case with the extension of the gas distribution network to the Yannitsa and the other cities of northern Greece. It is not understandable why many other European Union countries do not practice on the basis of which public bodies hold the fixed, distribution networks and grant long-term contracts, such as in Germany, for example, where those contracts are of a 20-year duration, rights of management to individuals. There is no guarantee that individuals who will acquire the fixed, distribution networks and network management rights will fully implement the Expansion Plan of the Gas Distribution Networks, as currently provided for by the TENs. For example, there is no substantial commitment that in Giannitsa all forty kilometers will be built currently provided for by the TEN. There is no obligation to implement the Distribution Network Development Programme drawn up by the Ministry of Energy, RAE, TAP, DESFA and the TAP to convert the TAP Valvestasy to a point where the Municipality of Skyras is located in order to supply it to the gas networks of Edessa, Aria, Scydra and possibly Naoussa - may - and Giannitsas, if the consumption of the Giannitsas cannot be covered by the transport of compressed natural gas. And there is no commitment to building distribution networks in the other cities of central Macedonia and above, in Edessa, Naoussa, Skydra and Aridia. And it is reasonable, ladies and gentlemen, to wonder whether all these shortcomings and omissions are the result of the reproach which the government sees or serves, and some dark feasibility of granting public property at a price lower than its book value. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to close with one comment, ladies and gentlemen: the people say 'the wolf is getting old, but its head is not changing'. The New Democracy's right-wing practice has been known for decades. From ruffles and facilitations, nothing else. Election by Mr Mitsotakis spoke of dignity, modernisation, renewal. All this until it's elected. From July 7th to today, we are living in an dystopia. Not even four months have passed, and we already have an MSF commander with a diploma in the lung musical instruments, associates of ministers who are not qualified, friends and relatives in public and lately, hundreds of twelve young hospital managers, most of whom are teachers and kindergartens, the only relationship they have with the health area is that they may have been operated for tonsils when they went to the preschool. We saw that after the mass reactions, the state-of-the-art commander of the Carditsa Hospital set up by the Mitsotakis Government resigned. As man said, the President of the New Democracy himself made this position. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is the clear case. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that he just played the role of a rabbit...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u429	Finish it, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u430	...in the attempt to cover up the scandal caused by these positions. This is a scandal. And the New Democracy seems reluctant to repurchase.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u431	Finish it, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u432	This is the real face of the New Democracy. He was chosen under the motto 'work, work, work'. And all he does, ladies and gentlemen, it's just ruffles and work. The Greek people, however, also have a memory and, above all, a crisis. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u433	I will give two, three minutes of the speech to Mr Hatzidakis to make two, three legislative improvements and to answer what amendments he makes, so that the services can make the instant. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u434	Thank you, Mr President. I will make four remarks from my side. Firstly, we are tabling two more legislative improvements, with no particular significance. But you will judge them anyway. Secondly, we accept the amendment under the general number 97 and a special number 10 tabled by Mr Stamenitis, Mr Antoniadis, Mrs Chapters and others entitled 'Auto-Produce from RES and NATIONAL for Farms'. This is the third point: we are accepting the amendment with a general number 98 and a special number 11 tabled by Mr Spanakis entitled'regulating RES issues'. But I would like to clarify this in this amendment. We accept the first paragraph as an independent article entitled 'Regulating RES issues' and the second paragraph as an addition to Article 20 of the bill. Finally, we propose adding to the title of the draft phrase 'and other provisions'. We are not making indicators, as I have said, but I am clearly saying that the JRC's amendment of a general number 95 and a specific number 8 on the working arrangements in the DEPA Group for the reasons we have explained in the committee. Also, we do not accept the amendment under a general number 93 and a special number 7 of the Members of the Change Movement, supplementing the provisions of the Act...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u435	You don't need to read them, Minister. After you said what you are accepting, the rest are not accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u436	All right, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u437	Mr Michael Papadopoulos, Member of the New Democracy MEP from Kozani, has the floor. Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u438	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to all colleagues. So far, no fellow Member has spoken from a lignite region, from Kozani, Ptolemais, Florina, Megalopolis. They're on their way and they'll talk later. I see them. They're here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the honour of electing a Member since 2000, as you know, and of coming from a county, who has lived on the notion of lignite. I hear colleagues who speak in a bill, as they could talk about any bill. For me and my fellow Members from the lignite regions, it is quite different. We've lost our relatives in mines. We've lost friends. We have lived all the way - and our parents are even more - of this great lignite period. I really wonder that there is no respect for all that has happened. I wonder why the Confederal Members, particularly the Major Opposition, have not been apologised to this day. And I have heard some colleagues who have also used some conditions quite strange. Because I don't know your name. Forgive me. They have not apologied for what has happened in the last four years. We all have to apologize, because PPC has been hurt by all of us. But what has happened in the last four and a half years has never happened. I think, however, that it may be time for us to leave a constant and fruitless debate on the post-Lignite era, as many concepts have been heard. Many concepts have been introduced in our vocabulary, such as the monoculture of PPC, the dependence of lignite, etc., which has finally been proved today to be pitfalls. I think it's time to move on in a new era, after endless discussions from all of us about who's faulted us, how we got here, because so late, because so early. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this bill takes an important first step by modernising PPC and liberalising the energy market. It's what the country needs. It is what a European country needs. I will remind you a few years ago, in 2009, a serious manager and president of PPC Takis Athanasopoulos. Everyone then disagreed on what he proposed, even Members of the New Democracy. After a few years, it turned out to be a very good plan. "Small" PPC: we all disagreed. I can assure you that, now that we are talking about, SYRIZA's most fanatical trade unionist is talking about why, unfortunately, the "little" PPC has not happened and cannot disagree. We've heard too many stories today and many stories. We can't take it anymore. No one can argue and no one can argue. The government brings a specific bill that is harder for us too. We hope and believe that the counterweight to be given will be very important. I heard colleagues talking about shutdowns. What closure? You didn't know? Haven't you ever heard of that? I suggest you enter the internet and see the two speeches of SYRIZA Chief of SYRIZA, Mr. Tsipras, two weeks ago, one in Kozani, the Black Pontius Club, and one in Serbia. You'll understand that most of you are offline to what you're saying. I suggest you hear Mr. Tsipras' earlier interviews. But look at these interviews two weeks ago on his visit to Kozani. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA government methodically denounced PPC, with specific objectives. It wasn't random. The first was political exploitation and it did it. The rest of the political forces in the last elections could have a much larger proportion in the lignite region. SYRIZA took advantage of that. He tried to serve the hostile businessmen in any way, transforming their executives and employees into a political defence army of the party, undermining the next day of the next government. He enlarged the application of the laws. No one disputes that. He closed his eye to many batters so they wouldn't pay invoices, see the previous Minister of Energy. We had redundancies and arousal of hems, changing the regulation of PPC's evaluation. You're talking about workers. Does anyone remember that? Or rather the question is, does anyone know? We had money in ghost clubs. We in our county know who these Ghost Associations are. We had no price increases while seeing that PPC is falling apart. We had the sale of lignite plants without a minimum price, depreciating the real value. I have listened very carefully to all colleagues. But you have today disagreed with what you have done. So I heard you say about the closure of the units. Doesn't anyone know the units have an end date? Hasn't anyone ever heard that some plants have already been shut down and New Democracy has not shut them down? That some units will be closed in the next few years and some of them will be closed after a few years? Haven't you ever heard of that? Ladies and gentlemen, you must apologise for all this, not just what you have done, but for what you are trying to give the world. SYRIZA's executives and lips, whether at regional level or in municipality, have become angry and shouting for violent liberation. And I disagree with a violent frustration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, just a minute. And I disagree with a violent frustration. But what is happening is not violent. It was known to everyone and no one has the courage to confess and say it. The President told you twice, two weeks ago, in Kosani. Because my time is over, unfortunately, I just want to say one thing. Our hope, but also the certainty of this particular minister and government, the next day and the next day, must be a day worthy of the history of the lignite regions, Minister. They must be worthy of people who have given their lives. Because the antidote must be important developmental, fiscal and, above all, really give the breath that needs a new generation. When LIBTOL was closed in Ptolemais, of which I come from, they were all terrified. You remember the fertilizer company. LIBTOL is closed. PPC's up. Now the problems created, although Unit 5 is a unit that will operate with lignite for some years, are the most modern and cheapest unit in Europe, then it can be replaced with fuel...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u439	Mr. Papadopoulos, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u440	Yes, Mr. President. I'm hanging up. We believe in this government and believe that it will create a modern and new future, which is why I am voting for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u441	Mrs Kafantaris, Member of the European Parliament, has the floor for Mrs SYRIZA, West Syriza.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u442	Thank you, Mr President. Of course SYRIZA won't apologize. Why apologize? About deterring the Samara government's plans for the "little" PPC you planned and the sale of hydroelectric units yet? Will we apologise for having voted for the privatisation of IPTO by 66%, while the SYRIZA Government made a new scheme, the new IPTO, where the networks by 51% are under public control and the investors are also involved? Because we want investors and private investors. I'm talking about the Chinese company that participates 24% in the new IPTO. That's why we won't apologize. Nor, of course, will we apologise for the fact that this large Public Power Corporation, PPC, is the one that was currently in debt to banks of 5 billion, was handed over to the SYRIZA Government with about 4 billion debts and of course its problems, because it has problems, because it has been put on a particular road. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy is moving forward and implementing its disastrous programme in the field of energy too. Two days before you refused to include in the Review of the Public Goods Constitution and the constitutional protection of water and energy, their designation, i.e. public goods. And right now, you're coming and you're continuing your destructive work with the full privatisation of the networks. This concerns the arrangements for PPC, as you send a direct shot to the institution of collective agreements at PPC, so that it can be more attractive for further privatisation. After all, there are certain statements of your own, Mr Minister, about the government's intentions in this area. The first moves of the Government of New Democracy since August have been the abolition of basic principles of collective agreements, and now by the arrangements introduced by this draft law for PPC workers we have created two-speed workers, bypassing the AACC for recruitment, arrangements for reductions in electricity and pensioners tariffs. You continue to intervene directly in the collective agreements. After all, as many of you have said from New Democracy, this is your new model for the CECF. I cannot, however, say here about the arrangements and the abolition of collective agreements and regulations of Law 4602/2019 concerning the PPA, the validity of collective agreements between the employees of the two new companies, which were created under this law, the Infrastructures PPA and the Networks PPA. What's your goal? Your goal, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is well known. You want a PPC, a small energy producer. And if your intentions to privatise the TEDO, which is a stable source of revenue for the company, are implemented, it is indeed what you want along with private companies in the field of energy and electricity, which will be treasured. PPC's defamation is concrete and pro-electional from the New Democracy and as a government. And it continued today also by members of the Coupling and Ministries, this destructive logic for PPC. The increases in tariffs, which you have brought, in essence, have concrete results, namely, 15% for small and medium-sized enterprises - all of which are cut by the Com munity - about 12% for domestic consumers and 9.5% for farmers. You have no concrete plan to deal with the problems. And there are - and nobody will deny - problems in the business, but the one-way is not privatisation and increases. But you in the New Democracy are only aware of that. I will now come to the great issue of liberation by 2028. How's that gonna happen? What plan? Does the government have a concrete plan? We are still awaiting the new ESRB, National Plan for Energy and Climate. And here I will say that the SYRIZA government has prepared this ESRB. It has taken very favourable judgments from the European institutions. We're still waiting for your plan. And what will be the role of gas in this transition period? Another big question! And here I cannot say that the European Commission considers that the switch in electricity production to be an exclusive use of natural gas is not right, and the European Investment Bank has said that since 2022 it will not finance natural gas infrastructure either. What's your plan? We want to hear it. You are now going to sell gas networks, a process contrary to European and global practices. The logic now is to depopulate networks at global level. That's the practice. In Greece, it is the opposite. A natural monopoly with stable revenues is granted to individuals with serious doubts about its expansion, about the costs to be incurred by households, and of course by questioning the country's energy security. And the public does not hold the role of minority shareholder. We recall that SYRIZA's Law No 4612/2019 on DPRK - which was separated - the New Democracy then saw it unnecessary and voted against it. What, gentlemen of the government, do you say about the transnational agreements on major gas projects? How about the implementation of the TEN programme in thirty-five cities? How about the guaranteed funding from the ESRB and the loan from the European Investment Bank? This is where we want an answer. Will the private gas expansion infrastructure be launched? The Attica SAR has a specific programme. And will the natural gas networks really reach the degraded areas of Attica and western Athens? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Mr President, please. In conclusion, I would like to say that we have an objection to the amendment on the priority consideration of applications for the association of RES stations in relation to Article 4. A ministerial decision will ensure priority for integration into the network. And this is about the energy communities - which is an important institution - which has so far been a secure priority in the networks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u443	Close, Mrs. Kafantari. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u444	And I will close by saying: Is it your idea to privatise the networks? It's not just your ideoscopy. It's your ideological stigma. It is your policy to be servants of many masters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u445	Don't make me regret that we went to the solution to end this sooner. Whoever goes up, think of them underneath.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u446	Just a minute, Mr President, I have.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u447	One and a half minutes, the last one, we've reached three minutes. I have the watch and I see it. Think of them underneath too. So we continue with our colleague, Mr Vardakis Socrates, and Mrs Eleftheriadou, Mr Maravegias, Mrs Christidou, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou and Mr Zachariadis are ready to fight. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u448	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I asked you some time ago to tell us the cost of the benefits that you suggested were being abolished by PPC's workers and pensioners. You didn't answer. And you have not responded - I think - deliberately why you want to turn public opinion towards them workers. So I'll tell you what. It is 0.28 minutes per meter, i.e., about 3.5 per meter per meter and with a plaque on kilowatt now 15, 12 and 18. I also want, Minister, to tell you that you got misled this morning. You probably wanted to tell us about regulations, and you told us about laws. And they weren't regulations, nor laws. It was a draft regulation, which was never adopted, and clearly no provision was made for what you suggested. And you told us five times, shame, shame and shame. It's okay to tell you one time a disgrace, because you misinform yourself. I guess you know what I mean. I mean the Renewable Regulation 24-07-2017. I am sure what you said did not respond to the reality, and that is why you did not submit this post in the Minutes if it were published. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you rejected and even applauded, in a strong sense, the objection of unconstitutionalism tabled by SYRIZA. With this applause, you once again put a tombstone on the working rights of young people, young people, I repeat! With the same policy, you have pushed two hundred thousand young people out of the country, legislated subordinated wages, minimum wages, rotating employment, EUR 586 wages. And I don't know which one of you will send the airplane's kid with 586 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today a bill that really reflects the philosophy of the current government on matters of major importance, which is no more than a tough, neoliberal, anti-social, anti-social, rousfetological policy. OTE workers, Mr. Hatzidakis, are indeed children of lower God. You said so in your interview. Are you proud of this? If you're proud to tell us. It is the generation that you have created, Minister, and your governments with the sale of the profitable OTE and with the unbalanced policies that you have implemented, subordinate, minimum wage, rented workers, three-hour - four-hour work, then abolishing any concept of law. Unfortunately, it seems that today in the bill you have brought, you have not been exemplified by mistakes and now you are trying with the same wrong policies to bring back a working gallery in the country for the benefit of BSE and the multinationals. You are abolishing the AACC, i.e. no transparency and no credibility of the recruitment system. You create completely party recruitment procedures and open the door in ruffles and restore the customer state. You choose to abolish the operational contract for new workers. Two-speed workers shall be created within the operation. At the same time, you are trying to weaken the trade union movement as the worker is not covered by the collective labour agreement has no incentive to participate in the trade union organisation. Really, Minister, is Mr Mitsotakis not here to ask him - is he the three hundred thousand new full-time jobs and well-paid jobs that Mr Mitsotakis told us beforehand? You haven't been to any panels and I believe you won't announce it. Is that what you meant? Another big lie obviously. By privatising distribution networks you offer a monopoly of public interest to private individuals. By privatising the PPA, you are selling not only marketing but also natural gas infrastructures with tragic consequences. Mr Mitsotakis is in the wrong direction to pay off the election notes apparently. You are abolishing the payroll that has been in place so far for PPC executives and you are setting the maximum wage ceiling of the Secretary-General, the Ministers, etc. and allow senior executives to receive overpays. Really, Minister, is there no financial disaster in PPC when we talk about large sums of money for senior officials? Simple workers are the financial burden? And I would like to ask you: do you have a study showing that wage costs make a business competitive and sustainable? I would remind you in 2013 that Mrs Lagard herself had told you that you had followed the wrong policy on wage costs that she did not agree with, as she said, neither with competitiveness nor with new jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has gone through a deep economic crisis with serious living problems. Let me remind you that the greatest increases in electricity tariffs have taken place in the six years of the crisis in 2008-2013 with a total burden on consumers of 60%. Natural persons and businesses have been tested. The household debts were ejected and closed down operations. In the government of SYRIZA, because you have said so many times, I would like to tell you that there has been no increase in electricity prices and there has been a moderate reduction of up to 12% due to competition and discounts. In fact, arrangements have been put forward to deal with energy poverty with a stronger social tariff and specific care for vulnerable groups. In fact, there was also a special aid for reconnecting electricity. What are you doing here? You establish a model that is at the expense of public and social interest in all aspects. That's what you want to sell out more than anything in an easy way. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law clearly illustrates the model of development of the New Democracy: privatization of social goods, increased costs for citizens, abolition of rights arising under the collective agreement - the individual agreements will dominate - the degradation of the trade union movement, high wages, opacity. I think no one disagrees that they are PPC issues and they need a substantial debate. But it is certain that this draft law has no foundation for any kind of strategic PPC debate. Finally, you are introducing the dismantling of labour rights and an increase in wage costs, a first-hand project, I can say, Minister. And can I tell you something, Minister? No one believes you received PPC Monday night bankrupt and saved it on Tuesday morning. In any case, I should like to tell you that whatever you do, no matter how much you try to deceive PPC and the employees of the Public Power Corporation will remain in the hands of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u449	We continue with our colleague from SYRIZA, Mrs Eleftheriadou Sultana. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u450	Mr President, I should like to begin by mentioning, although not relevant to this bill, the sweeping consequences of the murderous 'Gyrion' weather throughout Greece and my constituency in Thassos, in the city of Kavala, the Datos and Polystylos. Thumbnails, times of agony for the inhabitants, properties were lost under the covetous waters. Houses and infrastructures have suffered enormous damage. SYRIZA in the past and specifically in the 13-12-2016 just three months after the huge fire in Thassos did his duty towards its inhabitants and the Minister of Economy and Development Kritsis approved the accession to the Public Investment Programme 2016 the two technical bulletins submitted by the region and included road, anti-military and anti-corrosion projects, forest techniques and others of 3,370,000 euros. The Blue Region, from the point of view, seems not to have exploited this amount as it should, I would hope not for micro-political purposes. Also, after ninety years since the last structural interventions on the Tenaga Philippi network, the SYRIZA Government signed a contract to prepare a management study for flooding projects in Tenages, which had to be delivered in July 2019. Elections were mediated and the study's luck is missing. It is therefore time for the New Democracy Government to do its duty to the citizens and ask for the region of East Macedonia and Thrace to be activated so that the two previous events which I have just said can be examined and then immediately recorded of the damage and the immediate compensation for the inhabitants of the affected regions. Also, to accept the proposal for a law tabled today by SYRIZA for the National Civil Protection System so that we can better deal with these murderous phenomena in the future. As far as the bill is concerned, I was now reading the media friendlys and what did they say? ‘The PPC rescue bill is passed’. The same thing Mr Ploris said this morning, where one of the reasons that was rejected, according to Mr Ploir, was that it was a public and social interest, because the business should be saved. So some unconstitutional mistakes should be overlooked in the bill. Also, we were accused of being a disgrace because we criticise the New Democracy for selling PPC. The New Democracy has a nerve, not SYRIZA. New Democracy's first move was to increase the price of electricity by unnecessarily charging households and businesses and by driving already forty thousand outside PPC. So who despises and dismantles the organism? The fact is that New Democracy devalues the organisation by privatising the power distribution networks, by offering a monopoly operating in the public PPC in the hands of private interests. Of course you do not attach any importance to the reasons that led to the mass strike of General PPC, which is contrary to the bill. And what do your media do to reduce the value of the strike? They say that the strike is to prevent workers from being permanently permanent. Once again New Democracy is using false and cheap populism to justify unjustified and trample labour rights as we all know that permanentity for PPC employees does not exist since 2012. Workers are covered by contracts of indefinite duration and can be made redundant like all private sector workers in all companies by paying only legal compensation, and even more unnecessarily. The only restriction is group redundancies. You are trying to provoke social automation to PPC's supposedly boastful workers and hide your imminent intake of your own children without PPC and the salaries of PPC's managers and management, which you have increased even from the wages of the ministers. Unlike the great wages of excellent managers and managers, newly recruited and undeclared again, since recruitment will take place without PPC - they are your small rupees and will not be governed by the operational collective labour contract in force in PPC, but by the National General Association of Labour, which will lead to unequal treatment between young and old workers, those who, of course, remain, if you do not dismiss them directly or through the voluntary method of exit. With regard to the abolition of the 75% discount on PPC's tariffs for workers and pensioners, you forget to say that this discount was agreed in the 1991 collective agreement between GENOP and PPC. It was done against an increase in wages and is taxed as income on the upper tax scale. The abolition by law of a collective labour contract is unacceptable and unprecedented for the Greek legal order, and it is unconstitutional. It creates a bad and dangerous precedent, as well as inequalities between the pensioners of PPC and the pensioners of IPTO. About whether or not there is an APA: You say that recruitment continues under the supervision of the APA. There is either an APA procedure, honourable Members, or not. In this case, the IACC has been repealed. The reward committee also becomes a recruitment committee and the party begins, as it was in 1990 to 1993, when Constantine Mitsotakis made six and a half thousand appointments without AEP. The abolition leads to routine recruitment, to the destruction of the employment rights of new recruits, to the creation of two speed workers and to the opening of social and labour inequalities for the benefit of the selective blue children. And if your blue kids were excellent, then we'd say that at least that would benefit PPC. Unfortunately, your practice has shown you the opposite. You have been exposed and will be exposed again, as with the hospital administrations. Mr. Father, eighty-eight, said that he accepted the deal to leave the Independent Greeks and give the crosses he has in New Democracy in exchange for the commander's position at the Carditsa Hospital. Who says, Mr Hatzidakis - is Mr Hatzidakis not here - that Mr Mitsotakis accepted this at a personal meeting? When will Mr. Mitsotakis answer? Never, like he does to everything. Guilty silence? I would say devaluation of the citizens' intelligence and their affliction. Of course, you are giving excellent and limos, depriving PPC of the upper limit of cubism of state cars. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. In the same way, you are selling DEPA and you are selling not only marketing but also natural gas infrastructures. You do not submit an operational plan for PPC's course, you do not inform us of the country's long-term energy planning, there is no feasibility study and no budget for your choices on the business issues. The bill is handy, it covers the government's communication needs and, of course, it leads once again to the eruption of collective labour and labour rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u451	We continue with our colleague, New Democracy MP from Magnesia, Konstantinos Maraveya. Get Mrs. Rallia Christidou ready from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u452	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in medicine we say that correct and timely diagnosis is half the treatment. This means that, in order to solve any problem in real time, we must, first of all, do two things: firstly, understand what is causing it and secondly, bend it as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, however, as today's debate has shown, politics is not medical, because many times the treatments you have proposed, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, have nothing to do with reality and its real problems. Let's start with PPC. Is there a financial problem with PPC? The government and those who know how to read balance sheets are undeniably 'yes' and even huge, but SYRIZA is not in agreement. He does not accept that PPC has sinked into a swamp of debts and malicious payers. If you are SYRIZA, that is, you are experiencing another reality where PPC does not have a serious economic problem, it has not, for example, been undermined by the NOME auctions, nor has it gleaned because of foaming politicians, who have essentially served its poor payers. The very same and worse things happened with the DEPA. Here again, it is not about New Democracy's allegations, because the present government did not create Mr. Petsiti, some people would walk with him to Cesarean. New Democracy did not have the CEO of the DEPA doing weird transactions with ELFE. This scandal is not being investigated by any party, but by justice itself, which is also showing its criminal dimensions. Finally, no SYRIZA took over the huge festives caused by the petty Petsiti politicians. You just sent the account to the Greek people. So what's going on? I hear SYRIZA's criticism, and I really can't believe my ears. I'm reading you from a communication from your party's Energy Sector dated 25 November 2019, which denounces this bill as a sellout of the IPPC and breaks down its clothes for the interests of consumers on social terms. It is unbelievable, and yet, this still claims when it was in power, for four and a half years, when these events evolved. Unless you mean, as a consumer, Mr Laurentis Laurentiadis and as a social state, the status you have attempted to build. And another case: Mr Panos Skourletis, former Minister for the Environment and Energy, responsible for PPC and PPC, during the period of all this. What did he say to the committee on 21 November 2019, but also to his speech today? That we have correctly enforced the bill for "little" PPC, canceling the destructive sales plan of lignite plants. Of the NOMEs that were a defensive policy on creditors' pressures, PPC collected 2.1 billion euros when it estimated at best that it would collect a fixed amount of 1.5 billion euros. So what does the relevant Minister of Government tell us? It welcomes PPC's sabotage of SYRIZA - ANEL in August 2014, when the Samara government was desperately trying to move forward with ligniteification, which is now considered pan-European joint political commitment, while maximising the value of the sale of our lignite plants. On the other hand, Mr. Skourletis with Mathematics SYRIZA is trying to convince that with the NOME auctions, that is, selling electricity to private providers below costs, PPC was supposed to win even with the same technical competence, comparing lemons and oranges, NOME and PPC's fixeds. With such mixed knowledge of finances, therefore, it is not surprising that the ditch we found PPC in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing a Civic Opposition today, which not only tried as a government to take timely measures to save PPC and PPC, but claims they didn't even need to be saved. We therefore have not just a weakness of diagnosis of the problem, but a refusal by SYRIZA that there was a problem. Not only does the TEKO, but also a supposed healer, SYRIZA, with an even heavier condition in its four and a half years of governance, have a full dimension with reality, a pathogen that could be called "concurrent universe syndrome", a "detachmentism syndrome" that we see recurred here in the House, from which it began, when you dyed the symptoms of the antimony or anything else you could machine. Mr President, I am closing with two points: the first is for Article 24, where farmers can finally invest in renewable energy sources, in high productivity land controlled. Such an effort is also being made in my region of Magnesia with the aegis of the Volos Union, which we certainly welcome. Finally, a word about Article 15 and the reduction of the night tariff, a measure by the Mitsotakis Government which benefits up to 32% from all the regulated charges on the electricity account for all households that make high consumptions at night. In particular, there is provision for a reduction in tariffs for night consumption of up to 70%. In this way, a deep breath is given, especially to households who use batteries and electric accumulators to heat them in winter. In fact, these reductions relate to all those who consume a lot of electricity at night, regardless of the provider they use. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The New Democracy is therefore coming to resurrect your pro-Holy increases in electricity in 2018 with a mere and fair measure that cures and does not mock, because in politics, ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible for the comogyanites to float. Our fellow citizens, as they have shown in the last elections, are asking for seriousness and a solution to their problems and such solutions give with this bill the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Government of all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, too, for the time economy. Mrs Rallia Christidou has the floor for seven minutes and a request from everyone to be observed, because, as you know, they are still twenty-five speakers. Here, Mrs. Christidou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u454	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, do you realize that the main argument for defending the bill - we hear you this morning - is to criticise SYRIZA today? So you have so much confidence in your choices? Why, quite simply, if you have so much confidence in your choices, why do you feel the need to apologize by accusing the choices of the previous government? What are you afraid of and defending attackers? We have been listening since the morning to say that we have no right to speak. So, what do you want us to do? Should we be backed up by you already? You have KINAL for that purpose. Do you realize that SYRIZA is Opposition and you're the government? You have to explain yourself. What's that obsession? Honestly, what scares you on SYRIZA so much? Ladies and gentlemen, in the last five months of New Democracy's governance, we have followed a series of self-determinations of promises that Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy have been electorally scattered: the press agreement has melted in warm hands with Mr Zaev. Acquisition proved to be an empty word, since all positions from the so-called state of service and the NSA until the hospital administrations are occupied by "losers" without even the formal qualifications, such as Mr. Father today, director at Carditsa Hospital, who said remarkably on a television show about Mr. Mitsotakis' class. Reductions in the middle class in the preliminary draft budget prove to be a blank letter and goes by saying. But we must admit that despite the way the New Democracy has chosen to deal with, with irony, lies, cynicism, as regards this bill on PPC, it proves to be very consistent. It proves consistent with its intentions to sell out public wealth to private investors who will not pay 1 euros. On the contrary, they will have the gas monopoly in each region. This is called healthy entrepreneurship. At the same time, it remains consistent in yet another obsession, the hostility to labour rights. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are legally abolishing the collective agreements for new workers in PPC. Remove the APRC for the recruitment, to return to your other favorite habit, the party rupture of the right-wing state and of course solve the hands of the party director in order to hire Golden Boys with out-of-control fees. Over the last few days we have seen disasters happening throughout Greece, due to climate change. In order to restore these damages to PPC's network, in order to bring the electricity back to the households that were hit by the premise, to regain light for our fellow citizens to reheat, the PPC workers must work in good conditions. They're the ones who'll get through the wires again, they're the ones who're gonna get the columns back up. These workers are saying that they should be excluded from the collective agreements, at least those appointed from now on. So you create the obvious injustice, two workers working side by side, but one is paid half of what will be paid. At the same time, at the same time as PPC's artisans are struggling with any damage, some of your children as Article 4 says in your bill, who will be hired by director without a plaque to pay, will enjoy Abraham and Isaac the goods. This is what SYRIZA colleagues have pointed out in committee, this has caused the explosion of the Minister, that is what New Democracy calls populism, and that is a condensation of the discriminatory class policy that the government is conducting in favour of some. As far as the privatisations have been made in our country but also internationally, there is a minimum requirement, a clause for the buyer to make an investment level. There is no such provision here, not once. Not in the bill, but also in the talks of government officials. Once again, energy poverty has not been mentioned. The word 'poverty' is missing from your vocabulary. Let the New Democracy tell us: How exactly will it ensure that the individual develops the network in degraded areas or to the benefit of poorer social groups? How can you oblige a private person to do that if you don't put clauses in the law? We, as SYRIZA, ensured it after the public had a majority stake. How does the New Democracy ensure it? But it does not ensure that, ladies and gentlemen, it does not care. That is why he refused to vote on the provision in the Constitutional Review on access for all to clean and affordable energy. Now it seems the reason. It does not intend to pursue policies that ensure low energy costs and access to all, citizens and businesses. In Article 11 for the specific staff invoice, the collective agreement is amended by law unilaterally. We must admit that you have exceeded every limit. Instead of PPC sitting on the table with the workers and coming to an agreement, a new collective agreement, since the previous agreement is not satisfactory as you say, the state comes to change the contract at all costs of the workers. After charging the society 500,000,000 euros through the increases in PPC tariffs, you are targeting workers once again. PPC loses customers because of your politics because of your rhetoric. Is this the Ministry involved? Oh, no. The Ministry wants PPC to lose clients. It's a strategic target, along with the sale of a second stage. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is invoking the existence of a defoliation plan. In practice, however, the only project that exists is the deregulation of the energy market, the sale of infrastructure, the depreciation of PPC, the non-safety of access to energy for everyone, and the 'days' service with opacity. The government of SYRIZA kept the position of the Greek State in PPA as it did with other energy companies. The State retained the right to veto a series of strategic decisions for the company and, in particular, for transnational gas supply contracts, thereby ensuring energy supply. The public kept 51%. This protection net is now falling apart. You are now giving private individuals the entire proportion of the public, 65%, both in infrastructure and in marketing. You create a private monopoly on natural gas networks. This monopoly management and network ownership will cost households and businesses especially in the non-preferential regions in the region.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u455	Hang up, please. Last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u456	I'm closing, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not surprised by the New Democracy Energy Act. It is as unpopular as one would expect it to be the law of a party that came to rule for the benefit of some. And indeed, they are worthy of their wages. Or not? Why can't you serve both the Lord and Mamon, and yours unfortunately is clear day after day that it's not the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u457	Mrs. Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first day the New Democracy Government has taken over, the energy sector may be the sector which has been most clearly reflected in the neoliberal character of the new government. The bill that we are debating today, as all SYRIZA colleagues have mentioned, has key objectives and objectives for the complete deregulation of the energy market, for PPC to be privatised directly and very soon, and of course, as has emerged with the objection of unconstitutionalism this morning, the abolition of collective agreements and labour rights. Because we have heard the usual moderate Minister for Energy, Mr Hatzidakis, going out in a way of aggressive and derogatory towards the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and with jokes and, indeed, with a number of arguments that our rapporteur, Mr Famelos, and our parliamentary representative, Mr Janakopoulos, have restored, I would like to stand up to some basic truths and repeat them. Really first. In the European Union, liberalisation of energy markets under no circumstances meant a discount for the public interest or a withdrawal from the public service. There is a clear possibility for the public service to be guaranteed, provided that the competition rules are respected. It is for this reason that a number of European countries have established this public service, that the networks and infrastructure, such as France, Finland, Spain and a number of other countries, are under public control. So there is no European obligation to the contrary. At a time when the public interest is wider, and it is about the social and climate dimension, there is a need for public service and public control, as far as infrastructure and networks are concerned. Really second. There is no and it has not been expressed, Minister, that you are present and that you are following our debate, from the government's point of view, a comprehensive strategy on energy. We heard the Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, in New York, at the climate conference, throwing a firework, as it turns out. I am also referring to the New Democracy colleague from Kozani who has tried to justify the unjustified, the difficult position that has been reached by New Democracy in western Macedonia and Thrace in terms of the bill you have brought. Let me tell you how it turned out to be a firework. So we asked then - did we even discuss the ELPEs and the hydrocarbons mining contracts - Mr Hatzidakis 'but, on what study was based by the Prime Minister and said what your national strategy, your Greek energy and climate plan at last, is,' he said. And the answer was that you had not been working on it yet, Mr Secretary, so far it has not been presented to the National Representation as you had to, while the SYRIZA Government had left a fully-processed proposal on this topic for the European Commission. So neither the consequences have you actually estimated nor plan you have on these crucial issues, but you are bringing this bill. Really third, which is critical. In fact today, and with this bill as with a number of others, a Memorandum of Rehabilitation is taking place and it is a multiple Memorandum of Rehabilitation. The first and most obvious one, which also emerged by Mrs Ahtsioglu this morning clearly in the objection of unconstitutionalism, is following all the arrangements that Mr Brutsis has put forward and, of course, in the development bill that we have seen. You are actually coming here to destroy collective agreements, employment rights. And here is hypocrisy when Mr. Hatzidakis says "You say that it is not permanent, that it is unlimited of time". Of course we say this because, firstly, a climate is being created for the Greek people and, secondly, you do not come here to confirm the re-establishment in the second memorandum, which SYRIZA as soon as we got out of the memoranda last August restored labour rights and collective bargaining, but is, in fact, a prerequisite for the destruction of labour rights in other public enterprises and other IKOs. That's the reality. Furthermore, the SYRIZA government at the hardest memorial phase then, in 2015-2018, objected to the pressures of the institutions in order to proceed with a direct privatisation of networks and everything, but it also maintained public control in IPTO, as well as in terms of the networks in the DEDENE and much more public control over the PPC. I'm really fourth. What are you doing now, and what moves you come to privatize the DEPA and the networks? We're talking about full privatisation. It is clear, therefore, that the answer is simple: without strategy, with purely neoliberal policy, but also in order for a natural monopoly such as natural gas to come and deliver it to a private monopoly. You have tried to respond - because I have followed you - with regard to the complaints of colleagues from northern Greece, from Macedonia, from Thrace, about what will happen with all the projects to extend the network, in the thirty-fifth cities, which have also been guaranteed by funding and all, but, Minister, you are not convinced by us. And we cannot feel that there is really a plan, as at the moment you are privatising and nothing guarantees the future, of course, of all these networks. Really fifth. Go ahead and open the road with the continuous depreciation of PPC from the first day to deliver it to private interests. That's the reality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I will close so that I do not abuse time in one sentence, Mr President. It's not just the public and social interest. There is also a matter of national interest. We are finally waiting for you to tell us, within this multitude of neoliberalism, what you will do with the ELPEs, what will be done with the privatisation of the ELPEs, as we are talking about the strategy of energy, when at the moment it is a profitable business, and when you know very well that the SYRIZA Government has ensured both the public and the social and the national interests with 51% of the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u459	Mr. Zachariadis from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes. I would ask all the Members following that they still have time to adjust their position to seven minutes. With these seven minutes - I tell you by a calculation we have made - the list only of Members of Parliament is closed at 14.00 a.m. and then we have the next. Here, Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u460	The New Democracy's perception of power management, unfortunately, is feudal. He took power and divides the pie. Some were elected MPs, some were appointed ministers, some general secretaries, and now let's go see what happened with the others. First of all, the number of postmasters increased, lowered the target and wages increased. By journalists who took the ERT and were in favour of 'black', they returned with a demonstration of arrogantness and cynicism. The NSA was appointed in charge without a degree and when it was found to be incompatible with the legislation, it did not change the person but the law changed! A failed candidate for the Municipality of Thessaloniki entered the "ATTIO METRO". I hear that you have a very good proposal for the Deposit and Loan Fund. Do not forget the sister and brother of our Prime Minister! You do what you are talking about decency and excellence, and Mr Vorides said this morning in a television panel "Anyway, who should we put? " Let me tell you who to put. Let me tell you what Mr Mitsotakis said on November 1, 2017. I didn't see them put up by the 'Truth Group' that she likes. He said, "I am not going to tolerate the administrations of hospitals to place failed states seeking a slow wage in the public sector." Mr. Mitsotakis! There's no one from SYRIZA. I am telling you, if I can tell you that the New Democracy General Secretariat of the Republic was placed in a hospital, that a failed MEP also entered a hospital, that a MP who was unable to be elected was also in hospital, that a candidate with the regional Attica voter who was not elected entered a hospital, that you did the incredible with the Preveza and Arta who fooled the public administration, where the secretary of the NWO Preveza entered a commander in Arta and the secretary of the NOTE commander in Preveza? Wifes of journalists who support their position and their opinion - that is their right. And since I have seen the position of Mr Lebanese, Mr Lebanese, let us read a little 'Kathimerini' - not 'AUGI', but 'Kathimerin' - where he says today in her main article? It says that the appointment of veteran states to public office works corrosively for the government's credibility and does not suit what the Prime Minister is doing. The claim that others did themselves simply reproduce cynicism inspires the paralytic belief that the country's normality is Russephetic rule. That's what Kathimerini says! I have also sat down and made a transcript - and if you want me to give it to the Minutes, but you don't do it very well when we give them to the Minutes - for what he said this morning on a large television network, again from the SKAI-Kathemerini group, Mr. Father. I'll read to you exactly what the man said. Mr. Father said: "When the President invited me to his office in the House and we discussed it together, I begged him, when he would become authority and if he wanted, before the elections, because I would not like to participate in the New Democracy vote in the Trikala, to give me one of these positions. The Prime Minister did not disagree and I would go back to New Democracy because I was not in the New Democracy, I joined the ANELs, I had taken thousands of crosses to Trikala. I was invited to the current Prime Minister's office, I made this appointment and said: I will be back, Mr President, I will help you if you want my help. If you have noble kindness, when you become Prime Minister, and you can and will, give me one of these positions." In his honor, Mr. Mitsotakis has kept his word in a few of what he has kept his word so far and gave him the place. So do you mind what Mr. Janakopoulos said earlier? The promise made by Mr. Mitsotakis to Mr. Father or, in any case, someone from his office has done so. He thought it was fair, he did it. It's so simple. You use public administration and hospitals as a parking lot of new Republic's best friends, relatives, failed states. Now, in the opposite part of this situation, the SYRIZA government had for the first time applied an open selection procedure for governors and deputy governors and, of course, on our day, there were governors from all advances. Of course, there were also SYRIZA, there was a New Democracy, there was PASOK. I am telling you, because I was the director of the parliamentary group and I listened to a lot of our MPs, who too wanted the governors to be only SYRIZA, but they were not. They were people who served public health based on their science and their studies. That is why the budgets have been balanced over our days in hospitals and in deficits. That's why the hospitals found gauze, sheets and consumables, because first we were paying these and then the caterers, as you did until 2015, so that Mr. Mitsotakis could come the other day and tell us "I have a country to rule". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He has a country to rule, because he found a country to rule. We didn't find a place to rule, we found chaos! Now, in the context of the Constitutional Review, New Democracy has refused SYRIZA's proposal for a constitutional safeguard for citizens' access to the social goods of water and electricity. This refusal clearly demonstrates its real energy plan. It is not PPC's modernisation, nor the promotion of RES, nor the so-called maximisation of the benefit for the Treasury, which Mr Hatzidakis claims from the sale of PPC. This is a failed, old, anachronistic recipe, a classic right-wing policy, a failure, which bankrupt both citizens and businesses. They privatize the energy companies, then sell the infrastructure and everything is on the air. Tell me, do Austria, Cyprus, Denmark, Spain, Finland, France, which maintains public control over energy infrastructures, are ideological countries? Why are they doing this? In any case, we must at some point, when we talk about PPC - the Minister is not here - have a squeeze, because in your days, in 2012-2015, the electricity price has increased 60% and the world has entered a humanitarian crisis and energy poverty. Nowadays, in very difficult conditions and applying a memorandum, we have reduced PPC's cost by 12% and launched the terms and conditions of getting out of energy poverty and the humanitarian crisis. Of course, there is a need to modernise the business, and of course, we started this modernisation, but you, once you took over the power, brought... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In thirty seconds' time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u461	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u462	I shall conclude with this proposal, Mr President. Your policy is disastrous for public infrastructure and when you leave, you will leave as you have left in the past, leaving behind economic and social debris. So you left in 2015, so you left in 2009 and left in 1993. We're here, and we'll try to stop you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u463	Mr Santorinis Nektarios has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u464	Thank you, Mr President. Before we had a dispute with the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. I would read what the previous speaker read, but I do not do so, so that we do not repeat ourselves. Mr. Father had taken, he says, thousands of crosses. "I had a power, a army of mine in Trikala," he says and exchanged it in one place. So he just bought it, you gave it to him. But is that all it is? These people in Preveza and Arta for you put hiasthi on them, also spend free fuel to go to the hospital every day? Change them. I also heard Mr. Gikas complaining that one of the Yanna was appointed at the hospital in Corfu. So put one of Corfu in the Yannina. You know, hiastites like at Champions League, somehow help people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u465	And they won't pay any calls for the ruffles!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u466	They don't have to pay any calls for ruffles, since they know. Let's get to the bottom of the bill. At the same time as the government majority rejected the proposal for a constitutional review of SYRIZA to ensure the access of all citizens to energy and water goods, the House committees were introduced the bill under discussion for the substantial sale of PPC and natural gas, two important public energy companies. This is how you proved your neoliberal obsession with the full privatization of critical public infrastructures and abuse the right of all citizens to access the good of energy. The only aim of this government is to privatise PPC - you have no other plan for PPC - and sell the electricity distribution networks, such as the DEDDIE, which is profitable. All the government has achieved with the inexorable and unfair increases is to lose PPC good and consistent customers. Over the past two months, PPC has lost 4.5% of its clients. I have heard a New Democracy MEP some time ago congratulating the Minister for his patience for PPC and the Olympic Air Force. Exactly that, Minister of Special Missions! Private monopolies, that's what Mr. Hatzidakis wants to do. He did so with the "Olympic Air Force", he does it with PPC. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And that's all? The Government therefore legislates to sell the natural gas networks in the country, calling into question the extension of gas networks, since it will only be subject to the private profit rule, without any guarantee of the extension of the natural gas network. You are now giving private individuals the entire proportion of the public in both infrastructure and energy trading. You are creating another private monopoly on natural gas networks. The public does not even hold the role of minority shareholder, even though energy security issues are affected in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, in another bill the government has not escaped from the rule of the new exemplary legislative initiative, which boldens the rules of parliamentism. A few hours before the last meeting of the committee opened, it tabled two multi-page amendments, which could alone be drafted. In particular, one of them has absolutely nothing to do with the bill under discussion, except that it is submitted by the same Ministry. An amendment recasting the state's policy in dealing with arbitrary issues, with controversial provisions, which at the same time settles routine urban planning issues. It is clear that the way and time in which this amendment was tabled did not allow it to be worked out in committees and forced us to submit comments, objections and proposals now in plenary. Really, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, is this the ultimate state and best lawmaking practices that you voted on in the summer? Is this how you upgrade the parliamentary procedure? However, let us go to the essence of the amendment, as it has been incorporated into the draft legislation under discussion. The first article deals with the electronic identity of buildings and a series of extensions of the existing legal framework for arbitrary buildings. Is it really possible with one last-minute amendment to leave the arbitrary to be settled by 2025? Of course, after the expiry of the new deadline, it will only be done through the electronic register of the identity of the building, as provided for in our own law. However, until now no legislation has dared - legislative legislation, not amendment - to leave the arbitrary to open and unresolved for so long. With this arrangement, close the eye to the continuation of arbitrary construction and keep the subject open for a very long time. And the question is: Are there going to be demolitions? There will be fines in the arbitrary by 2025 or you will leave them all open: Six years from now nothing will be controlled in the arbitrary. That's what you've done. As you know, the deadline for the arbitrary settlement expired at the beginning of the month, and today this procedure is in the air. Another proof that you are legislating backwards, creating institutional gaps in crucial issues. I would remind you that we had tabled an amendment in time to the development law, but you did not accept it. There are other issues, but another issue in Article 1 is that the possibility of issuing an electronic building identity is being introduced by individuals, and a reward fee will also be introduced, burdening the owners of the property. Why did you introduce this possibility? Do you have any properties you want to settle and satisfy again? I guess that's what's happening. You'd better answer us. However, the problematic provisions of this amendment are not limited to Article 1. Article 3 seeks an unprecedented falsification of the rules on construction and alteration of the building regulation for the benefit of specific business interests, which have unlawfully changed use in underground hotels, making most of the terrestrial morphology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u467	Complete, Mr Colleague, last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u468	In a minute, Mr. President. This amendment opens the air of Halos for urban overcrowding in areas with a particularly charged structured environment. This regulation will create an overhaul industry in heavyly structured tourist areas, leading to their degradation, while at the same time there are safety, active and passive fire protection issues that these undergrounds certainly do not satisfy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is once again clear that the only reason why the government acts is the sale of public property and particularly critical buildings, which are a natural monopoly. At the same time, every one of you is a gift to some "a few and selected" to continue to illegalize. Once again it becomes clear that you are being cut in the interests of certain economic elites, while we are defending the rights of a large social majority. We're not the same, and we're not gonna be the same luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u469	Mr Leonidas Stoltides has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u470	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u471	No, you can't. The time will be fully respected. Do you have a point of order you want to say? Is there a reason?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u472	I'm a parliamentarian, and I'm a dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u473	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u474	One question I would like to ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u475	It's okay, keep her. You don't have to. A question to the speaker who comes in?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u476	No, no, the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u477	No, no. Don't open up any new issues. Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u478	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill marks further progress in the strategy of capital and the European Union for the liberalisation of the electricity market, a key part of which is the promoted privatisations, but which has been served faithfully by all the governments of PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA and the extremely revealing cohort among you contains all the evidence. The impact of this policy, which serves the interests of business groups, is a dramatic overall for the working class and the people. From 2008 until today, liberalisation has led to increases in domestic electricity tariffs. Along with increases in VAT, RES charges, increases in utilities and a number of other charges have reached 150% and then follow up, because there is a further course to liberation and a lot of depth. In the process of liberalisation from 2010 to today, and workers have experienced the consequences of this policy by extending the contractors' slave trade, with 12 hours and six hours' work, with a lack of health and safety measures, shortcomings in health workers, old equipment that poses risks to workers' lives, reductions in wages that reached 55%. We must not forget here, because you have all the parties with your orders, from the beginning of leaping with the PASK, ICE and SAR, the coalition then, in the administration of GENOP. They agreed with the PASOK government to give the company and the future investor a large part of PPC's property belonging to the employees. To proceed with privatisation, they gave out of the staff contributions that were embedded in PPC's property and which, together with the company's insurance obligations, amounted to EUR 10 billion. These developments could not take place if they did not have the support and cooperation of the employers' government union, your people - all of you - in the labour movement, such as the leadership of the GENOP and the majority of the other clubs of the group, who have spoken from the outset about the benefits of competitive transformation and have signed up to many speed workers. Advertising the polynomial draft brought by the PPC, the Minister for the Environment and Energy used OTE's example as a model of development. We have to admit that the example is right and rightly used if you are advertising it to the business groups that you are calling on them to put the unscrupulous public wealth in hand. Because this example of OTE: Thirty thousand workers with a collective labour agreement, full and stable work and built-in rights, reached fifteen thousand, of whom five and a half thousand outside a collective labour contract, with the minimum wage paid and three and a half thousand of them with flexible, flexible and structured work, with hunger wages and a intensity of authoritarianism and, of course, the good of communication becoming more and more expensive goods, despite the huge development of technology. Of course, all the things that have been stolen from the popular layers and from the workers have been turned into glossy profits for the group and then continue. It is indeed the mirror for what workers and people should have in mind and take battle positions directly, because the modernisation that the PPC government invoked and expressed in the bill is the abolition of stable and permanent work, as well as the payment of the work by setting the wages from PPC's PPC's Board, away from any concept of collective bargaining. Modernisation is considered to be the dismissal by voluntary means of personnel working with permanent employment relationships and with employment rights laid down by collective labour agreements and their replacement with young workers without rights, cheaper and consumable. Full implementation, in other words, of the recently adopted development plan. This is your development, gentlemen, this is your modernisation, the patriotic duty, as you understand it, that is to say, the pricking of all those who produce the wealth for the sacrificing of those who produce nothing, they offer nothing to the economy, that is, the shareholders of business groups. All those affected by this bill, that is, firstly, the whole of our people because of an increase in domestic tariffs from 16.4 to 16.9% and 19.5% in night current, the haircut from 10% to 5% and the imposition of a polluting clause on tariffs, secondly, professionals affected by increases of 21% to 23% in business tariffs, thirdly, farmers from an 8.3% increase and the average trend of EUR 9.6%, all have the power to set their own development conditions. They have the power, because they are the vast majority of our people. They therefore have the power to force the government not to implement the bill, a bill that undermines their own survival, sends our country to energy dependency and the possibility of developing it in the hands of the interests of a handful of business groups. Finally, they all have the power to impose a development path for the benefit of their own interests, for their own needs to be met, and in this direction the Communist Party of Greece will deposit all its powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u479	Thank you for the time economy, too. Mrs Ahtsioglou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was going to highlight some problematic aspects of the bill, both for energy and for the PCP and for labour. However, I think that what was said this morning by the Minister, by Mr Hatzidakis, cannot be left unanswered. Mr Hatzidakis said this morning in order to justify, to justify his intervention with his bill of employment, namely that he has established, by law, discrimination against new workers and intervenes in a valid collective labour contract, which is incomprehensible and unacceptable in time, especially since 1990, when free collective bargaining has been established, a number of false arguments have been put forward. This is really regrettable, because one could hear arguments neoliberally that it is necessary to reduce labour costs, because that is a development factor - it is often a right wing - but to invoke such gross lies to justify unjustified costs, that is at least provocative. The President of Parliament tried at that time to protect him, in fact, by not giving the floor to even a brief representative. But things are very clear and it is very sad how fat the false things he said were. First of all, Mr Hatzidakis said that the country's courts had to accept that the time of recruitment could be a very legitimate reason for discrimination in the wages of workers and other working conditions. That's completely false. The worst part is that Mr Hatzidakis listed a number of judgments of the Supreme Courts in order to support what he said. I have raised these decisions and these decisions are not related to the matter. In other words, Mr Hatzidakis has referred to decisions which have nothing to do with this matter. They are decisions which talk about how a consensual solution is to be made to work relationships, or how the employer will be treated equally in voluntary benefits, etc. They have nothing to do with this at all. Second and more serious, Mr Hatzidakis falsely claimed that in 2017, in the government of SYRIZA, there was a working regulation, a work regulation was signed at PPC RENEWABLES, where the regulation provided for exactly what he did throughout PPC. He said, "But I just expand what you had already started." To tell him that in 2017 no working regulations were signed and were not agreed in PPC RENEWABLES. On the other hand, the Working Regulation was agreed on the PPC RENEWABLE in 2019, where PPC’s staff would be assigned the same as the PPC staff regulation as the entire PPC staff regulation. In other words, the regulation has come to predict that there will be the same working and wage relationships in the group, which is not an obligation under the law, but it is certainly a very good thing to do for the workers of a group. I will testify for the Minutes, because I came here with proof of why the lies were monstrous, the working regulation that was agreed, it did not have time to be approved by the board of directors in 2019 and it says what I just said. But I will testify for the Minutes and what was probably trying to invoke, that, as I said to you, in 2017, it was, he said, a regulation. There was no regulation. He tried to say we did the same thing. Well, I will testify for the Minutes, because in 2017 there was indeed an attempt to have a regulation - which was not in the end - the draft in which there was none of what Mr Hatzidakis said. No one entirely predicts in this draf, in this draft draft, which has never been agreed, that there will be discrimination between workers. Lie fat and made by the Minister and intentionally. Third point. Mr. Hatzidakis said, in order to create a parallelism, that both OTE and SYRIZA were introduced in 2017, wages were different for the new entrants. I think you do not know, Mr Hatzidakis - thank you for coming to the Chamber - what you are talking about or think you are talking to people who do not understand. Let me point out to you this: it is another thing in the context of a collective labour contract that employers and employees of a private company decide to have different wage scales. It is quite another thing that the state should come by law and intervene in a current collective labour agreement and abolish its application for a number of workers. Nevertheless, despite what I said the important thing, I think, as far as the collective agreement and the law are concerned, it seems that, apart from not discerning these two - it is not necessary to know it, but you may ask, in order to learn it from someone who knows - it seems that you do not know how to read a single business collective labour contract. Because the one you referred to, i.e. the operational collective agreement at OTE - I will testify for the Minutes - has a date of signature in 2014. In 2014, the OTE's operational collective agreement that you invoked was signed, not in 2017 or 2018. In 2014 on the Government of New Democracy. I'm going a little further. You have often argued that this bill eliminates the permanentity of PPC's employees. I'm not going to go into the political commentary at all. I will only say: Monastility has been abolished since 2012. For skeptical readers: Law 4046/2012 Annex E, paragraph 29: "Removal of permanentity in all traditional contracts, all companies. The new provision automatically transforms fixed-term contracts with an end to retirement into contracts with an indefinite duration for which normal dismissal procedures apply.’ For anyone who goes to argue that permanentity and contracts of indefinite duration are the same, that is completely false. In the first place, redundancies are forbidden. In contracts for an indefinite period, redundancies shall be allowed unnecessarily. I will testify for the Minutes of L.4046/2012 where permanentity was abolished. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Isn't that enough for you? I will testify for the Proceedings of the 2012 Ministerial Council, which made this tall and said: "From 14-2-2012 employment contracts of workers who provide for an end to a retirement age limit, they are understood as an indefinite period of work and this - he says - applies to all enterprises in the wider public sector." That's PPC. I'll testify for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u481	But hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u482	So what do we got here? Besides, let me tell you that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u483	Shut up, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u484	Yeah, I'll go. I'd say a sentence. I wanted to say that in practice there have been redundancies since 2012. Workers went to the courts to be justified, and of course they were not vindicated, because the law had abolished permanentity. So the act came and I confirmed what I said. The political reading behind all this is that you are trying to create a social automation, that is to say, that the workers, all the rest of the country's employees, are making a balance with your interventions, an equitable downwards, an equivalency to the worsening of working and wage levels. I think our concern, if anything, is to seek a convergence upwards in wages and working conditions rather than to create false impressions downwards, with cheap communication tricks in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u485	Mr. Katsis Marios of SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u486	Thank you, Mr President. If the Minister had to answer, dear Afe, he'd have to take the floor, be sure. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy in the last four and a half months which has been in the government of the place is only making use of the issues it has taken up for voting. In all other issues relating to the core of the neoliberal and submissive agenda to domestic and foreign interests, you are consistent. I recognize that. And to achieve this, you are projecting technocracy, which creates awe in combination with the modern, timeless populism of the right party. The New Democracy has only one strategic objective, and it is not about the country and the supposed rescue of PPC. It concerns massive privatizations at a low price for friendly private interests, through the merits of public structures, as well as the establishment of working conditions in the gallery. With this draft law, we have the first act of divesting public property in the field of energy, crucial to the sustainability and security of the country. You haven't said a word about security so far in the bill. The New Democracy plan for deregulation of the energy market, the sale of infrastructure, the depreciation of PPC, the failure to ensure access to clean and affordable energy for everyone, with the latter denying it and voting on it in the relevant proposal that we have tabled and the Constitutional Review. Your plan also includes the creation of an army of blue Golden Boys, as well as the abolition of labour rights, which opens roads for the whole labour market. Just yesterday, Minister, the 'STATE GRID', which participates in IPTO, asked you by letter to include in the draft law the leg of the introduction of the new way of extra-ASEP recruitment - because it is different from that of ASP and different from supervision - by threatening the question of the uncertainty of their investment in Greece. You have opened your appetite to everyone, Minister, with your decisions. And the messages you send to investors are extremely worrying and extremely negative. This is the first time that, in a large public sector enterprise, we have such a large-scale sudden uncontinuation in the working conditions of young workers compared with older workers. The Government is preparing recruitments with individual contracts and remunerations of EUR 650 per month, effectively bypassing the ADP, effectively cancelling the operational collective labour contract in an unconstitutional manner, clarifying and ordering a quasi-favourable principle of the most unfavourable regulation only a year after SYRIZA managed to restore the principle of more favourable regulation. You are propagandaally propagandaing that - allegedly - you abolish PPC's perpetuality to create a confusion and a blur in society, but forget deliberately and intentionally that the perpetuality has been abolished since 2012 with the second memorandum. At the same time, the salary ceiling for Deputy CEOs, CEOs, Directors, Directors-General and Directors is waived, restoring the country to the times before bankruptcy, when the blue-green Golden Boys were in existence, as was recently the case with the choice to the Governors of the ECOs. At the same time that you are doing these, which are sending collector notes to the world that are difficult and owes 50 euros to 100 euros, you are leaving the strategic poor payers to the unavoidable - allegedly - to save PPC. The New Democracy is abolishing labour rights. What a hypocrisy! So you come to tear down what the SYRIZA government has done with trouble. We reduced PPC's tariffs by 12%. We have promoted arrangements for dealing with energy poverty with a stronger social invoice and special care for vulnerable groups. We made the hundred and twenty instalments. We've reduced the VAT on energy. You, with 'good morning', increased your tariffs. So we knew how to save PPC with 550 million. We didn't need you to come to the country's rule of Glaukas in Athens. We maintained public control over energy companies in order to ensure that all citizens have access to the energy sector, without taking into account only the profit. We have laid the foundations for planning the coordinate gradual and smooth rehabilitation of lignite, without jeopardising the level of energy autonomy and energy costs, but also the labour prospects of the citizens. Today, the Government of New Democracy is changing to the country by adapting PPC to the specifications of a company in difficulty for sale, by legislating the sale of the natural gas networks of the country, a monopoly, by giving private individuals the full proportion of the public 65%, both in infrastructure and in marketing, by creating a private monopoly on natural gas networks, while, at the same time, calling into question the extension of natural gas networks, since it will now be subject to the only rule, the rule of private profit without any relevant clause. Have you thought that this is how you jeopardise even the country's energy security? One-stop shop and network ownership by individuals is certain. And you'll see. Very soon the Greek society will see that this will raise the cost for households and businesses. At the same time, SYRIZA's forecasts are being abolished for PPC workers who provided for the validity of collective labour agreements, the transfer of industrial relations to the new companies that will arise and the banning of redundancies for three years after the completion of the transfer of shares. Evidently, most of the best and best jobs that Mr.Mitsotakis had in election are not valid for everyone, but for your own, for the excellent of the bad time that you appointed governors in the hospitals of the country, failed states, party officials, people with open criminal cases, but also Russells to journalists who polished you on a night. ‘What would we put on? We'd put the strangers on?' Mr. Vorides said. There goes excellence. There goes denomination. It's all gone. So who are the liars, Minister? The confession of the eighth-year-old Mr. Father for your President's rosé against the army of voters, except that he humiliates you is also revealing how you gained authority: You have suffered immunity, money and place in the strife, journalists and statemen. And now one, one, you come and you pay them back. After our election, the 1960s came up with a Harvard wrapper. And that would be funny if it wasn't dangerous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u487	Mr Christoforos Boutsikakis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u488	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, because I see the governors and the choices of our government, so for the history, to record that 72% of them have a postgraduate or doctorate and 80% already have administrative experience. And to talk about the voter takeovers, to see who they were, who from PASOK and the ANLLs, you've been bogged after the election the last time you won. And talk about their qualifications, if you want. I'm coming to the bill now. From school years yet, we know that a body surrounds energy when it can produce work. The production of any project presupposes a form of energy. Without power, the engines don't work. Without energy, it is no longer possible to satisfy people's daily needs. There is no possibility of overall, social and economic activity. From this alone, we all understand the importance of energy in the new era. From the 19th-century Industrial Revolution to the technological revolution of today, but also for the transition to the digital era of tomorrow, the good functioning of the energy market is a prerequisite for the growth of the economy, innovation and the well-being of society. The bill that we are debating today is an integral part of the energy market. Like all the government's bills, it does not confine itself to fragmentary arrangements, but includes global reforms to modernise PPC, to develop renewable energy sources that support the national economy with respect to environmental protection, to ensure the proper functioning of the energy market in conditions of free competition, according to best international practices, to fully privatise PPC with a new healthy competition framework, to promote electricity mobility, which entails very low costs for movements with zero pollutants for the environment. As part of my current position, I would like to speak in particular about PPC. Since April 2019, the sworn auditor appointed by the SYRIZA government raised a matter of the company’s viability. The New Democracy has just taken over the rule of the country has taken steps to address the catastrophic course taken by the company. It managed in less than three months to change the position of the sworn auditor, to triple the price of PPC's share and to upgrade the company's creditworthiness. We did this because we immediately developed a comprehensive rescue plan. We faced the liquidity problems, encouraged the new pricing policy, legislated to yield up to EUR 200 million to PPC from the public utility account, abolished the NOME auctions that had been established in the SYRIZA government and forced PPC to sell to its competitors below costs. Today, we have three major challenges in front of us: the frustration of PPC, the strong support of renewable energy sources by the company and the privatisation of TEDO. But we don't just live in them. Our aim is to modernise the business, to make it more flexible, more functional, faster to make decisions. Let's make it more effective. In order to achieve this, we must get rid of it from the suffocating framework of ECHO legislation. Thus, with the proposed draft law, among other things, we are introducing a flexible working framework for those employed from now on. We are looking for experts with expertise in new technologies, as is the case with private sector enterprises, with the participation of the IACC in the control of legality and at the same time with the rapid completion of the procedures. We are stimulus to attract executives from the market. We abolish permanentity for the Directors-General. From now on, they will be selected by a three-year notice from both the members of the company and the market itself. We reduce the cost of the company with provision for voluntary employee exits. This will be implemented directly by PPC itself, without any burden on the state budget and the insurance funds. We facilitate the internal mobility of workers and allow voluntary movements to the public sector. We are introducing a flexible framework for procurement by speeding up procedures, but always with strict guarantees of transparency. We maintain the discount on energy consumption for PPC workers, as is the case with all electricity companies. We reduce the charge of services of general interest to households with night current, correcting the injustices of the past. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill puts an end to anachronistic attitudes and practices. We enable PPC to meet the demands of modern times and also the challenges of the future. PPC's changing. The economy is changing. The country's changing. The focus of our policy is sustainable and sustainable development. The benefits of this effort will be huge in the present, but also in the future. With the modernisation of PPC, by privatising PPA and the proper functioning of the energy market, the promotion of renewable energy sources and electricity mobilisation, we lay the foundations for the overall energy modernisation of the country and the economy. We are laying the foundations for the national economy finally to be able to develop with respect for environmental protection, so that energy can be accessible to all our fellow citizens, households and businesses, so that the best possible benefits can be provided at the lowest possible cost. This is the policy of the New Democracy, a policy of progress and development for the benefit of all citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u489	Mr Stefanos Gikas has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u490	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take a minute of my precious time for a matter. I saw today that many of the SYRIZA Members have dealt with hospital managers, party positions, etc. My constituency is Corfu. A few weeks ago, the President and CEO of the Port Authority was replaced, who - I am sure I appreciate the man and respect him - was eighty years old. So that doesn't mean anything. Second, one of the hundred thirty, a hundred forty hospital commanders you appointed in 2016, executives who probably belonged to the New Democracy area were four. The rest of them were from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u491	Now how many of them are from SYRIZA?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u492	There could be four of them. I would like to say that every opposition accuses the government of the same matter. So you can't have flipped into the flag in the last two days an eighty-year-old when you've done the same. But we're going on this in order. It is a serious draft law, which regulates the energy market. It breathes to PPC, to a public company which, on your day, swung the mists and regulates a number of other issues. It is important, because with this bill we are leaving behind ideas and bad practices of the past and, of course, we are regulating the whole package of energy and we are exalting existing businesses. The aim is to restore the competitiveness of businesses, which have disappeared over your days in full. The arrangements in the draft law focus on the benefit of the economy and thus of society and the consumer. At the same time, particular attention is paid to the issue of renewable energy sources, but also to the protection of the environment. The bill provides for a number of provisions which, inter alia, reduce the charge of night-time services. At the same time, there is provision for the company's corporate transformation in order to facilitate the privatisation of the company. It is also important to mention that on the big subject called PPC, this is the third rescue attempt that this party makes. The first was 2007-2009. The then government of Kostas Karamanlis has seen that the only way to save the business is to privatise some place. Mr. Athanasopoulos' administration then searched and found a strategic investor. Indeed, it had reached the point of signing a memorandum of cooperation with the German RWE, but the reactions of the GENOP, the PASOK then, which was an official opposition, the small SYRIZA and others, prevented this process. We arrive in 2014 where the New Democracy Government again - of course it was the Samara - Venizelos government - supported the issue of "little" PPC. This was essentially a small, but healthy business, sustainable and particularly competitive project. You did not adopt this plan either. When you took over power in January 2015, you took care, after a period of time, to adopt the worst possible solution that was the NOME auctions, with the result that within a very short period of time the company will lose significant value, damage more than EUR 600 million and, of course, follow what we have seen in recent years. We have reached this point that the company that was a 'column' of our economy has actually gone bankrupt, collapsed and your own sworn accountants - the ones you have appointed as the government, the 'ERNST & YOUNG' - say that if nothing changes, this company is going bankrupt. Fudo! So this was to be reversed by the present government. In a very short time, by adjusting tariffs, with the abolition of NOMEs, in very few months the company's share has reached 3,2 euros. This difference is very important and shows exactly the correct procedure followed by this government. Also important houses, such as "STANDARD & POOR'S", upgraded the company when only a few months ago this company was almost bankrupt. With the bill which we are discussing at the moment, PPC's operation becomes sustainable. The company becomes competitive and follows the standards of healthy business in Europe and in the world. For these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of our bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u493	Mr. Haritsis Alexander from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u494	Thank you, Mr President. I did not mean to talk about matters outside of the bill, but since the previous speaker spoke of anachronistic attitudes and practices and tried to justify the unjustified ones in my view in relation to the case of hospital governors, I will not use my own words, let me use someone else's words. "When I met with Mr. Mitsotakis in his office, I said to him: "After you want to go back to New Democracy, when you become Prime Minister, I have a very good CV note, I want this position. I know, however, that it is not just the CV, because we also need political consensus. It's not just the skill thing, it's not about hiding behind our finger. And he agreed.’ Mr. Mitsotakis agreed. "These I have said and they have appointed me." That's what Mr. Father, your old stateman is saying in his interview today. Because you spoke of anachronistic attitudes and practices, there is no need for any further comment I think. We leave them in the crisis of the Greek citizens. And I'm going to testify to this particular quote from the interview in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I come to the bill we are discussing today. And I remembered by reading the bill that, following on to the elections on 7 July, we saw high-speed television stations and newspapers - related to specific business interests - bombing us with news of the impending collapse of the Public Power Corporation. It was a matter of time, weeks, days, hours, until the country was in front of a huge disaster. Of course I don't have to tell you that only responsible for this disaster was SYRIZA. The elections have taken place, and since the first days of the new government you have continued - the new government, assisted by the media - the same pattern. Daily statements about PPC's specified crisis, some - I would say - misguided communication initiatives, Mr Minister, with photographs in front of PPC's private competitors' premises and, of course, an increase in electricity price. All of this is found on the first page of manual global neoliberalism, that is, divestment by depreciation. Then, of course - and I will end with this brief review - the denomination of a development bill which added to the mosaic of the government's strategy a further vote of graceful provisions for business interests and confirmed that this government certainly lacks only one thing, any intention to defend the public interest. We have also seen this in the recent debate on the constitutional review where New Democracy voted against SYRIZA's proposal for a constitutional guarantee for public control of basic social goods, such as electricity and its distribution networks. So the bill we are debating today is not in a void. It comes after all these long-term attempts to depreciate and slander the business. It confirms that the government does not intend to pursue policies that ensure low energy costs and access to all citizens and businesses. It further confirms its desire to serve oligopolistic interests by opaque procedures and ultimately its intention to divest the public interest in the energy sector. More specifically, as far as labour relations are concerned, you even get over yourself. Why else is the law abolishing the collective labour contract in PPC? What else is your choice for young workers - who obviously need to be recruited in the company, and especially for scientific staff, young engineers - to work not with the operational contract but with individual contracts of employment, that is, with hunger wages? What else is your choice to abolish the provisions of Law 4206/2019 of the SYRIZA Government for the protection of workers in the PPP? I would remind you that those forecasts concerned the validity of collective agreements, the transfer of labour relations to new companies and the ban on redundancies for three years after the transfer of shares was completed. Why, this vibrant against work? Why this vibrant against the new scientists? Do you not understand that with this anti-government policy that you are struggling with, will the inequality be increased? And like all international organisations, such as the OECD and the World Bank, do they point out that inequalities beyond all others, other than anti-social, are also anti-developmental? The truth is that you choose to undermine the country's development prospects through PPC just to ensure higher profitability for individuals. If that's not irresponsible, then what is it? Even more irresponsible, however, is the choice in the new assignments to circumvent the AACC. We have, in other words, reinstated a regime - the regime that we have seen in these days and other aspects of the public sector - which you have been ruthlessly introducing, strengthening and using for a small-party benefit for decades. This is a major regression in relation to SYRIZA's governance in the client state. A regression which, unfortunately, we see in too many aspects of your policy, in many irresponsible choices you make. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me say, however, that it seems very critical in my view - and it seems that, unfortunately, neither is international experience a guide to you - is your choice to privatise the PPA, as you seek with this bill but also to privatise the gas networks of the country. You are giving private individuals the entire proportion of the public in marketing and, above all, in infrastructures, in networks of an enterprise which is of course not an undertaking like everyone else. These networks constitute a natural monopoly and were built by the backwardness of the Greek people. So you assign this monopoly to private individuals. This creates a private monopoly. This monopoly management and network ownership will, on the one hand, raise costs for households and businesses. It will, however, also undermine the extension of the network to all regions of the country as it needs to be done, because it will certainly be a unique criterion for profitability. All this will be done without any plan for security of supply and the cost and quality of energy for the development of the networks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u495	Shut up, Mr. Haritsi. Close, last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u496	I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u497	No, there's no shortcut. Shut up! That's the last sentence. Shut up!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u498	So you are not being prosecuted, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because you do not agree with SYRIZA's energy policy. But we call on you, for your refusal to draw the necessary conclusions from what has happened in our country and internationally in recent years, these conclusions which should lead you to a defence of the public interest, an integrated plan for the development and sustainability of the Public Power Corporation. A plan we don't see. On the contrary, what we are seeing is a coordinated effort to completely divest public property in the very crucial for the productive reconstruction of the country's energy sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u499	Mrs. Theosti Perka has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u500	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a revelation bill. Following the Prime Minister's statement from the UN step towards the complete demilitarisation of the country by 2028, this bill unfolding the government's plan, but not supported by any planning. It's a plan without a plan. Compression announcements without any documentation, no alternative proposal. You have no plan for security of supply and energy dependency in the country, no plan for energy costs, no plan for a fair transition of the economy and society, but also of the lignite regions. There are no plans for announcements but there are no special measures to support the region of western Macedonia and its inhabitants. You know, deprivation is not the case, nor is it simply announced. We have been provoking you for a long time to present your design. What exactly steps will you take to get a fair transition? How will the wounds of the Florina and Kosani Prefectures be healed, which is the heart of the largest lignite centre in Southeast Europe? What production model will you support in the area? What will become of businesses active in the field? What will happen to residents and workers? How will it be restored? How will the invested capital of modern units be exploited? What about Ptolemais 5? An entire region is based only on lignite over the years and this is an exclusive work of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK. So we come to today at a new time when we need to know the mistakes made and how we will not go back to them. If we continue to go without compass, the tragic mistakes will be upgraded to criminals because it is criminal, the lack of basic planning mentioned in the Commission's assessment report, and it has unfortunately also been confirmed in the context of the government's parliamentary control. We asked you a question about the design and resources for the fair transition of the lignite regions. Your answer was unsatisfactory. We also tabled an amendment to the development bill on the integration of the country's lignite regions into a new special status of development law. You obviously didn't accept her. You know, the SYRIZA government had a national energy and climate plan by 2030 submitted and with a very good assessment by the European Union. The SYRIZA Government also requested technical assistance on the issue of a smooth and fair transition to the post-linerning era by SRSS, the competent institution of the European Commission, and the World Bank on the subject. Illegalisation in 2028 without a plan for a fair transition. Even WWF, a purely environmental organisation, says "yes" to apology, but with a plan, with organisation, not incompletely and directly. We are now going to the heart of the draft law on the DEPA. Follow the old good recipe investment and development equals unconditional privatization and limits. Promote the immediate privatisation of natural gas networks, the entire proportion of public 65%, both in infrastructure and in marketing. In the part of the trade, of course, the market should be opened up, private capital and businesses involved, and there should be competition, although there should be the presence of the public in order to operate in a balanced manner. But the infrastructure that is a natural monopoly is incomprehensible because the New Democracy Government gives them not to say about the conditions of divestment. It is a neoliberal idea to have conditions of creation of a private monopoly. How sensible does it sound to grant the private a natural monopoly made by public money and not even have a minority package? The full withdrawal of the public from the PPAs puts the network at risk among others and the expansion of the network. Because we cannot see how you will force the individual to do works and what conditions. It should be recalled that this obligation was withdrawn after consultation of the bill. Here we recall that we had a plan to expand the network to over thirty cities that were next to the central DESFA pipeline. Evidently all other things are posted to competition and need as the lawfulness of withdrawal of the State from any production activity. These taxes, moreover, are losing ground in the face of reality, as examples show from the other European countries. Several countries have heard today. I want you to explain to me exactly which model, which has good results, you copy. We're waiting for an answer. Which country is that? Gentlemen of the government in every bill that comes to Parliament there are always two issues that you insist with incredible cynicism. The first concerns a service of interest. It is no longer a surprise, and I can say that all we have to do is look for names and addresses and that is easy. Today's bill many questions arise for the transportation of Alexandroupolis' liquefied gas after consultation in the ICCAT of Commerce, not in the Infrastructure or International Works. This station is a heavy infrastructure and a gas entrance gateway in the country, and the irrational option poses serious questions of opacity and inequality, while limiting the country's competition and geopolitical interests. The second issue is a monotonous obsession for workers in employment rights. This bill brings about the dissolution of the APRC and abolishing collective labour contracts while at the same time bringing provisions for Golden Boys with high wages, limos, etc. They are contradictory provisions that cause society. The scandalous reinstatement of rumphette and anxiocracy does not allow you to talk again about Brain drain, progress, equal opportunities and other such nice things as adoring your speech, but not your policies. Unfortunately, I will stop here because I would like to clarify a few things about PPC because a lot of them have been heard, many lies have been heard. Indeed, PPC in 2014 had profits of 91 million. The 70 of them, however, belonged to IPTO, who is today another company. Count and count again and you haven't told anyone that IPTO has split up, and today it's another company. In 2013 it had damages of 225 million, in 2008 unspecified figure, I think it was over 400 million. And in the famous 900 million, you know it's a write-down because of disinvestment, that it's also the volunteer exit of 165 million and a thousand other two accounting and other obligations. But I will say what has happened since 2015 to PPC. Lower its borrowing by 1 billion. He invested 1,3 billion. Cover the deficits of the special EIA account. He paid 126 million in 2017, formerly owed by the sinful history of ENERGA and HELLAS POWER. Of course it was borne by NOMEs that were designing RAE since 2013, mentioned in the second memorandum and please take a pencil and erase it from your speeches. We'll never say that again. It's like that. One question and I'm closing. Because you have received many congratulations, Minister, on how you saved PPC, I want to know exactly what you have done. What was the operational plan? You should charge the consumers 500 million, which I think has not been collected anyway. That you would give PHOs owed by the old governments by 2011, which I also know have not been transferred? I'm waiting for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u501	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u502	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u503	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u504	I don't need much time, more for the record, because I have the impression that SYRIZA's colleagues will continue to say the same. But since we all know each other, friends, we are being seen on television right now by some people, I just want some things to be recorded in the Minutes, so there are no misunderstandings. I'm not gonna start talking about NOME again and who introduced them. I said it was n.4389/2016. I'm not gonna start saying what's changed to PPC again. Ask the 'ERNST & YOUNG', which you have appointed, your administration, a solemn auditor to tell you what changed. Ask the "STANDARD & POOR'S" that upgraded PPC to tell you what changed. I should like to refer to some of the categories which have been indicted to me since noon. I am not paying particular attention to you, and people do not give, because they know that SYRIZA is the Pinocchio of politics in Greece, and you are in danger, and the truth is, once and for all, saying that no one believes you and you must be careful about it. But because he told you that we all have family, kids, etc., for the Minutes I want to say two or three things to be recorded and keep saying what you want. One is that what I said about PPC RENEWABLES and what is true and I mentioned it at noon was absolutely true. I have the regulation here. Yours has been approved by the Board of SYRIZA on August 10, 2017 and is valid. You like it, you don't like it, I don't know what you think, but it's true. It's like that. There's no second interpretation. You're a champion, you're lying again. No one's surprised. You'll keep talking about it. I won't keep answering, just. The regulation is here, I have it stored on my phone. To go to a printer to testify to him in the Minutes for whatever value he's worth, not that you're convinced of the Minutes. You'll say it doesn't say 10 August, that he says - I know - other dates. You guys are capable of everything. The second thing I want to say is obviously you're lying about OTE. You say the last contract signed at OTE was in 2014. It's a lie, a lie, a lie, a serial lie. Let me tell you what's happened, 'cause I asked OTE too. Three contracts have been signed: 2012-2014 three years, 2015-2017 someone was ruling in this country - three years, 2018-2019 years. You have signed the two of the three conventions, with a different status for new workers and a different general status of new and old on many issues. What are you doing with it? What are you coming back to, in other words, things that I do not know and how central it is and you put yourself in this political humiliation - I cannot say it differently - to keep lying and constantly lying. What for? What you have to win and come and say it at eleven, at 12 o'clock at night, and you're still going on. But, for God's sake, you need to see it, look into this thing. I'll keep going. Same for the Ice Bay case law. I checked it out again with lawyers, professors. What you say is air and all that I have presented to Parliament, the decisions also apply to labour legislation and are entirely in line with the spirit and letter of the bill here. You say no, the government is lying, the Minister is lying. He's not lying. You may disagree with the decision of the Ice Arrow, but that's it. Like also, lie even in the privatization of the CRS. Why are you saying that the DESA took the first deprivation that was then cancelled 135 million and the second 535 million? In the first you received 300 million and in the second you did 535 million. He took it because he had more money in the cash register. We had explained them then and Mr. Screkas spoke here. Indeed, it was more money, but you have reason and instead of saying that from 400 million went 535 million would be in favour of saying that from 135 million went 535 million. What's that? Do you feel good now that you're listening to it? Do I know? Unless you're in constant dismissal or acting as a religious sect, and you think that you're serving a higher purpose by smuggling unreservedly, lying unreservedly, which I obviously expect to hear now, because if I had the illusion that my intervention would convince you. But I told you more about my friends, my family and the minutes of the House, who might be interested in looking at what we used to be about here. That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u505	Mr President, may I have the floor for three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u506	Mr. Janakopoulos, I'll give you the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u507	I have a tritology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u508	I'll give you three minutes so you don't get any trouble at this hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u509	Thank you very much, Mr President. Look at you, Minister, no one is interested in what you say, because your credibility has now touched, as I said in my speech, the absolute nadir. No one no longer believes a single word that you invoke. And one element which substantiates this claim, Minister, is that you did not dare this morning when you listed the decisions of the Ice Bay, regulations which you had created with your imagination, that it was supposedly the case that collective labour contracts, which were supposed to have been signed with responsibility, in fact, you said the SYRIZA Government, did not even dare to submit them in the Minutes. It is precisely for the Minutes alone and with complete indifference about the incredible lies that the Minister is not ashamed of even at 12 o'clock in the evening to repeat in this Chamber, I will tell you this: First of all, it would be preferable to insist on what you know and not try to make a legal argument where there is no. Collective contract of employment, Minister, is signed between the employer and the workers. Since this collective agreement provides for specific wage scales, it will then be decided by the court whether or not they are in accordance with labour law. We denounce something else and speak specifically of the OTE case. I denounce you that you as a government and you, as Minister, are putting your signature in legislative intervention which abolishes a collective labour contract. And you're talking about a collective contract of employment between employers and workers. If you can't understand it, we can sit here by six o'clock in the morning to explain the legal difference that your consultants probably haven't explained to you. In any case, the clause to which you refer for the first time entered a collective labour agreement in 2014. In any case, we are tired of saying the same thing, to explain it to you. If you want, we can also do legal lessons to be a little more, if you want, documented in your next placement. But in any case, stop being exposed or stop lying deliberately. Secondly, work regulations. The working rules you refer to are, on one hand, a draft...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u510	It's not a plan!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u511	It's a plan! It has never been agreed between the employer and the worker and at any point! Minister, stop lying at 12 o'clock at night! You're a liar! You must admit, at last, that you have been misled. Ask for an apology to this Chamber, even at 12 and half in the evening, for your children, Minister, to know your children that you are honest with the National Representation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u512	For God's sake! I've got him here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u513	No working Regulation has been in force since 2017. The working regulation adopted between employers and employees was in 2019 and stated very clearly that the workers of renewable sources should be covered by the collective agreement of PPC. Stop the spaghetti! Stop lying! Exposure, don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u514	Hang up, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u515	I shall close, Mr President, but it is not allowed in this Chamber, even at this time that they are being heard...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u516	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u517	The Minister, who had the opportunity from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m., 6 p.m., 7 p.m., decided to take the floor to learn sincere lessons at 12 p.m. But, here you know, Mr Hatzidakis, this is not the meeting of the Heads of State of the New Democracy. Here is the National Representation and you will get an answer to all your lies one by one to understand that you can no longer continue to mislead neither the Greek people nor the National Representation. I conclude with the question of the decisions of the Ice Arena. We submitted them to you in the Minutes. I understand you have a difficulty reading. If you want to take a look at them and understand that the cases you are talking about and the decisions you are talking about have absolutely nothing to do with what you referred to this morning. Do not ask SYRIZA for the change that your legal advisers and possibly legal advisers have misled you. In any case, at some point take responsibility for what you are doing. The Ice Bay's intake time is not a cause for unfavourable, discreet treatment. What can we do now? As much as you are trying to convince us on the contrary, you have made a legal mistake and you have deliberately misled the national delegation. I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u518	Finish, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u519	Why are they bothering you?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u520	Do not interrupt and complete, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u521	Your censorship operations don't pass here, gentlemen. Keep this in mind from now on and you will hear it. Now let's go to the last one...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u522	No, we're not going to the last one. Go to ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u523	...in relation to the competition for the DESA. The price that would be paid after the rights to return...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u524	Mr. Janakopoulos, excuse me, they were said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u525	...which your government had agreed would be 135 million euros, Mr. Hatzidakis. Take the political cost of accepting that you have caused damage to the country and you and your resignation and with the 25 billion that you left us amanania in 2009, when you left the country's governance, but also with what you did from 2011 to 2015. And in any case, at some point respect the intelligence of Greek citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u526	Minister, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u528	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u529	I obviously insist on everything I have said and do not want to follow Mr Janakopoulos. Let's do what he thinks. It's his personal, family, politics. Let's do what he wants. I just want, in addition to all the others I told you before, to tell you: let anyone who wants to see my phone. What else can I tell you? I have in front of me the Rules of Procedure Mr. Janakopoulos says there is no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u530	It's a plan. Stop lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u531	If you think I'm seeing vision...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u532	You're a liar. What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u533	It says: This Work Regulation was adopted by the Management Board on 10 August.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u534	You're a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u535	You're welcome. Mr. Janakopoulos, you said your opinion, let the Minister say his opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u536	It's approved. Now I spoke to PPC Command and she told me that she was approved. Neither will the New Democracy win the next elections from this, nor do you, but I have the text in front of me. Don't get to that level. Anyway, don't do this to ourselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u537	You don't want to do this to yourself. Expose!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u538	Mercy! Do whatever you want. I told you: The Pinocchio of the country's political life.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u539	Mr. Efstathos Konstantinides has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u540	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are told that despite the fact that we are the government, we are criticizing them as if we are still opposition. However, politics and administration continue, and that is why the comparison between the work and the days of the governments is self-evident. So the situation that New Democracy has received and the problems it has to solve are entirely linked to your governance. Undoubtedly, the field of energy is not suitable for Acoustic Antipolitics, since its policy at PPC has no laurels to show. On the contrary, it had harmful and dramatic consequences for the business and energy regions of the country. SYRIZA took over the company profitably and in four years it became so damaging and problematic that its viability would be threatened. But what did the opposition tell us five years ago and what is repeated today? He was accusing us of divesting assets. Then the divestments were deinvested and today they were resold again. And if it were the ones who sold the networks of IPTO and DESFA. And let them unsuccessfully try to sell PPC's units and even without a minimum price. Look hypocrisy. At the same time as selling PPC's units, they were allegedly trying to guarantee the public character of public utility, goods and infrastructure. We are still told of the different categories of workers, the same tasks are paid in a different way. Now did they realize that PPC employs three categories of employees, contracted with seven months and two months, permanent and new employees and contractors? Don't you know that at PPC, ladies and gentlemen of Antipolitics, one employee who loads with the charger is a contractor and the other who moves the land from the cargo deposits is probably a contractor or permanent? Do you not know that the different categories of workers have already been working for years, and your term of office, have they had a different wage and general labour treatment? They're blaming us that with our policy PPC loses customers. Don't you know that this is your commitment, ladies and gentlemen of the Officership? Don't you know that you sold 50% of the company's client account without getting any price? We are accused of deporting PPC, while in their term of office the company's reports have recorded extremely negative prospects. How do you pretend you don't see the evidence, ladies and gentlemen? In 2018 PPC closed with damages of EUR 903 million. The company’s turnover decreased by EUR 201 million, by 4.1% compared to 2017. At the end of 2018, the company’s short-term claims were less than EUR 949 million of its short-term liabilities. At the same time, the Greek banks had a PPC report of 1.7 billion against a total debt of 3.7 billion. Are these facts being questioned? You are accusing us of the time when PPC's share of PPC has tripled to rule by New Democracy. We are accused by the representatives of SYRIZA that the New Democracy policy serves private interests, those who have forced PPC by the tenders NOT to sell to its competitors at a price lower than the cost of production. But, in the end, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have to end up at some point: were the NOME auctions good or bad? Mr. Famelos renounces them, returns them to us. Mr. Skourletis defends them, says PPC collected 2 million. It also hides from the fact that PPC entered through the implementation of NOME auctions hundreds of millions of euros. I invoke here a subparagraph from sub-paragraph B2 ‘Electricity Regulations’ of L.4336/2015. And I read to you verse 4.3: ‘Compensated network operations. In September 2015, the authorities will discuss with the European Commission the design of the NOME auction system with a view to reducing PPC's retail and wholesale market shares by 25% and falling below 50% by 2020.’ Then, of course, it was SYRIZA. ‘If it is not possible to reach an agreement on NOME by the end of October 2015, the authorities will agree with the institutional structural measures which will be adopted immediately and which will lead to the same results.’; The fact that the NOME tenders and the PPC were two parallel procedures for the opening of the energy market is obvious from the fact that they achieved the same objective, namely that the ‘little’ would then be transferred to competitors of 30%, while the NOMEs were committed to the transfer of 50%. I put the print on it in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Efstathos Konstantinides, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But did he know what would result from the implementation of NOMEs or then the government? I am therefore invoking a relevant post from the warnings that were sent by the advisor at the time. I'm putting these in the Minutes too. [[At this point the Member, Mr Efstathos Konstantinides, on the Minutes of the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It provided for and warned that NOME auctions were not necessary and could also be dangerous by leading to irreparable damage. That's what he told you in 2016. He told you the same in 2019. Finally, until the end of 2018 the NOMEs charged the company with 310 million. We are being blamed by SYRIZA's representatives for not having a plan for the next day, and it is well known that they have left us no planning, no planning for the degreasing process, except for a poor and inert final line for the national transition plan. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that because this bill responds to many of the problems you left unsolved, since in the previous period you have only managed the situation, I recommend that it be voted in favour and I call on the relevant ministers to work hard in the next period for the drafting of a fair transition, primarily concerning energy regions. Minister, we have confidence in the laborious effort you are making. We want a strong PPC. We believe that the bill strengthens, strengthens and makes PPC competitive. PPC is a development tool for the area and will remain such in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u541	Mr. Apostle has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u542	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Rural Development appeared in the Chamber a moment ago and he did not say a single reason for protecting the land of high productivity affected by Article 24. It's incomprehensible, Minister, what you're doing. It is incomprehensible, Mr Hatzidakis, what you are doing for the land of high productivity, not only because we need to protect these areas - and all rural areas, I would say - for reasons of production, but also because they are linked to Community aid. They have not informed you that in the new common agricultural policy we are threatening reductions, because we are taking much more than the average of the European Union. Why didn't you propose another type of land, and even downgraded, which is too much, to set up renewable energy plants, for which we all agree? You need to answer these questions in particular to the rural world. With regard to Amendment No 97/10 tabled by the Members and accepted by the Minister for Rural Development, this is a communication initiative, as at present it is still on his own responsibility that the improvement plans to which the Net metering programme relating to the self-production of agricultural holdings from renewable energy sources should be kept open. For this self-production we introduced with Law 4414/2016 a percentage of up to 20% all year round...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u543	The percentage's up!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u544	...that is beyond what will meet the needs of the holding to be purchased in order to meet needs related to the investment and operation of the plant.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u545	We did it 75%!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u546	Of course, if beyond these needs there is an excess of production, we would have no objection to this changing to income, but see. Up to 75%, without there being any data on which to support this increase, there is a risk of serious concern that the activity will be directed not towards agriculture but towards energy production. You also understand this, Mr Minister, just now by tabling the relevant legislative improvement, which is referred to 'without adding new production units'. That is why I told you what this particular arrangement is causing. However, with Article 24 you must see that in terms of the units you bring to the land of high productivity, which allow renewable energy sources to be installed 1MW, this will be of such interest that unit 1KW exists next door, you realize that it will now turn the interest there. So I would like that and by closing this intervention on this part to ask you after all: Are there any specific interests behind these arrangements behind them? We will see them in the course of the implementation of the relevant improvement plans and investments in the land of high productivity. Secondly, I said before, and I will repeat it: why do you not expect the improvement plans to be implemented, which again have not been adopted, so that the regulations that the rural area really needs are documented? Have you realised that you may also pose problems of competition between investors and between farmers? So leave 'the mirrors to the natives' to the farmers. This is not the time for such arrangements now. We're on our way, and we're here, and we'll watch them. I now come to the point about PPC. Ladies and gentlemen, the Public Power Corporation has recognised what the New Democracy Members are missing today, namely that electricity is a social good and not a merchandise. You, of course, in the context of the development, through privatizations, have raised the sales as a totem. However, in countries of the European Union which have led to the privatisation of electricity, the cost of continuous 24-hour electricity supply is unbearable for some of the population that it now chooses not to be elective throughout the day, but on vacation, as was done sixty years ago in our country. These are reserved with your laws and other arrangements for the energy things of the country and especially for PPC! At the same time, of course, you are also attacking the working rights of workers after you are abolishing the operational collective agreement for young workers. The contracts to be concluded will be governed by the general provisions of labour law and the recruitment process will no longer be conducted by the AACC. The notice shall be sent for approval to the AACC which, if not responded within 10 days, shall be presumed to have its assent. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, I'll be done, Mr. President. You also ignore, Minister, that PPC is working people with high risk specialties and that there are increased accidents at work. These people work night - day, in all weather conditions, to get electricity to the county's last house because they restore damage to a minimum of time. So should we not take special care for them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u547	Please, hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u548	You also open the way and with the recruitments to settle many people of yours either through voluntary exit procedures or through recruitment procedures. You are therefore opening the way for privatisation - the sale of PPC and the networks - and especially for the implementation of two speed industrial relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u549	Mrs. Olympia Telloridou from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u550	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since this morning in this Chamber, we have heard that this bill comes as a necessity arising from the disastrous policy of the destructive SYRIZA at the 'Public Power Corporation'. But is that true? If that is true, why did you want to sell PPC and 2014, which had not been involved in the destructive government of SYRIZA? So you're not telling the truth. Because if you were to say so, you would point out in this Chamber that you delivered PPC in 2015 with a EUR 5.5 billion loan and you present as a catastrophic disaster that it has been reduced by 1.5 billion in our term of office and now it is EUR 3.997 000. You're not telling the truth. Because if you were telling the truth, you would not compare the price of the share then PPC with the price of the share today, because today we are talking about a different business, where there is no IPTO. What is the price of the share of IPTO? The truth is, this bill comes to meet the requirements of your dependencies, as was the case in the past. It is rather analogous to satisfying the demands for appointment to hospital governors. I will not go into the case of Mr Father, because his confession is no longer surprising. I shall refer to another statement that has been made before. I read: "On the date the President said to me that he wanted to renew and so I didn't have a seat on the ballot. He proposed to me a position of commander in a CSIO or other organisations. He proposed to me any TECE I want or any independent authority I want. I told him I'm busy and I don't want a professional restoration and that's where the conversation stopped." This was supported by Mr Marcoyannakis, who is not a SYRIZA official, referring to his conversation with the then president of the opposition officer. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Olympia Tyigoridou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I mean, the choice of managers in hospitals is not about people, about your process and logic. A logic of 'done and received', a logic which today as a government forces you to unleash notes. Will you give me votes? I'll appoint you commander. You're gonna help me, and you're gonna support me? I, too, will move on to what you want, for example privatization everywhere and always. So privatization and post-linguistic times, without any national planning, without any importance to the strategic importance of PPC. So we had a ultimatum from the Prime Minister at the UN conference, where he said that all lignite units were to be abolished in 2028, without any prior warning and without any prior election commitments in the region of Western Macedonia, which said we would go to a smooth transition. Therefore, with a lack of strategic planning, which is not interested in the clean forms of energy, which is not interested in energy saving, how we will move on to the post-German era, to the energy communities and, of course, to the well-known subject, the APA is abolished and reminds us of the periods of 1990-1993, which we had eight thousand ruptured appointments to PPC, which the Government of Mr Mitsotakis has probably envyd by his father's government. So what do we see in this bill? Energy no longer means public good. If that were the case, they would have gone through it in the Constitutional Review. We deceive PPC as soon as we become a government. This results in an increase in tariffs, which are'swapping' and a reduction in VAT that we have identified for 6%. We charge more than EUR 500 million for consumers and, more generally, for the sale of the networks. A characteristic example of this problem is the issue created by the supply of natural gas to my constituency, Kastoria, Argos Orestry and Grevena. With great effort the previous government, in cooperation with the regional authority, had managed to reach agreement with the TENA and the PPC to prepare a cost-benefit study to design this project, to finance it with EUR 21.5 million, and today we come and say that this work cannot be done, because the TEN is unreliable. There is a literature in our region, which comes from the new regional authority, which says that 'it has not happened before, we will now try'. But there is another kind of problem here, Mr Minister, and I would really like you to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u551	And close, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u552	I shall conclude, Mr President, with this question. On the one hand, we're going to privatize DEPA. On the other hand, just yesterday - for communication reasons? - the CEO sends a document to the periphery, which says that "we will proceed if the DESCA is ready" and finally I have the impression that your right is not aware of what your left is doing. I am tabling the relevant document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Olympia Tyigoridou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We therefore expect an answer to what is going to happen with this work. We are also waiting for an answer to what is going to happen with what our government has guaranteed for the special invoice which provided a 30% discount on all domestic tariffs in the region of Western Macedonia, which I think is at risk of being lost today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u553	Mr. Syrian Nikolaos from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u554	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think the debate today as it has evolved is extremely revealing for your own plans. Unfortunately, you couldn't convince your audience either. I would say, in any case, that these services of Parliament could not help you finally print this message on your mobile phone, see the House study it and see if it is a regulation of PPC and Renewable 2017, or is it a draft regulation, which has never been made, nor has it been ratified by a law, as you said in the morning, accompanying your fiery speech with the word 'wrong'? Here you have a responsibility to tell the whole truth. I am not going to mention the central body of the bill, because many colleagues have spoken in detail since the morning, in support of either the view of the Coupling or the view of the Opposition and, in particular, of our view, of all this. I will only say the six points, which this bill marks, and I will then speak in particular about some issues relating to island Greece as well. I therefore believe that this bill, firstly, works at the expense of the public interest. Secondly, it deregulation the energy market. Thirdly, it sells out the infrastructures of PPC and natural gas. Fourthly, it despises PPC to privatise it. Fifth, it serves "local" interests with opaque and sixth, opens a path for rousphetological recruitment without an APA for young workers, creating two-speed workers, while at the same time abolishing the collective labour agreement for already employees, who are indefinite over time and not permanent. In continuing on this, I would like to talk about Article 21, which deals with renewable energy sources and Article 35, which, in our opinion, grants us very large renewable energy projects, large investments and selectively supports these investments, which are more than 250 Megawatts. I say this because in my region, in the Cyclades, there is a huge upheaval. Of course, Article 21 does not concern Cyclades, because the four industrial wind parks, for which all local communities are rebellious and are in great mobilisation, have a sum of 218 MW, but no one knows what may happen in the future. And it cannot be accepted and these investments of the large industrial wind farms cannot be accepted, nor in Tinos, which the other day had a huge mobilisation with over 2,000 people, and if we consider the population that each island has, we understand what great mobilisation means, whether in Naxos, Paros or Andros. These four major industrial parks that have been proposed for several years and have taken environmental conditions from your own government in December 2013, and even one of them was cancelled by law in July 2014, these four industrial parks are not accepted either by local communities or by local government of 1st and 2nd grades and independently political or party directions, the mobilisations of local communities will fad. And they are not accepted, not in general because we are against renewable energy sources. Obviously, we are in favour of renewable energy sources...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u555	Tell the world to hear it! Say that, don't fool people!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u556	Mr. Loading, don't provoke me, because I'll come to you too. Obviously, we are in favour of renewable energy sources, but renewable energy sources, which are consistent with regional spatial planning for the region, will be consistent with the specific land use planning for the RES, which is being processed, and will be consistent with the capacity of these island regions. This dialogue has never happened. This dialogue must take place, if we really want to use some renewable energy sources that - I repeat - are in line with the capacity of these islands and at the same time to reject the large wind farms that will turn our islands into power plants. Fellow, Mr. Loading, from the Cyclades, in the morning you said "with respect to the architectural landscape and the limited land of the Greek islands". From the Cyclades we have been bombed these hours with a number of requests which say to us: 'Do you agree with the four Members, do you undertake to have a legislative initiative that will suspend any licensing and any continuation of wind parks?'. I answer: "I am committed to the large industrial wind parks, which are pharaonic-type and which have nothing to do with the environment, the ecosystem and the excellent landscape of our islands." If you commit yourself, I ask you directly to say so, because in your morning position you didn't say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u557	I said, you probably didn't hear it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u558	And I'm going down to finish. And Article 35 favours great interests of renewable energy sources, which, by way of derogation from building permits, can build towers for wind turbines, not on the basis of what was in place until now, but on the basis of and on the basis of public spaces and not as it was before. As far as Article 24 is concerned, colleagues spoke before. It is unacceptable to convert the land of high productivity, agricultural productivity into RES facilities. And I will remind you here, because our islands are small island areas, that Presidential Decree 59/29.6.2018 covered the installation capacity of up to 100 MW, not up to 1 MW.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u559	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u560	Take it back, Minister, because they do not fit into our islands such renewable energy sources. I will personally take other initiatives in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u561	Mr George Amanatidis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u562	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is very important for our region and especially for the Kozani-Ptolemais - Amyntaios - Florina, an axis that has offered much to the local economy. And why is it important? It concerns, among other things, PPC, the largest employer in our country and also in our region, a PPC which, based on the findings of the chartered auditors, reached the edge of the cliff, has been given serious, rapid decisions by the Minister, whom we thank, by the President of PPC and has changed the climate. PPC is already heading into a situation of better economics and data. The share, as it was heard earlier, tripled its value, rose its credit rating and now looks like an organization that starts and finds its way. Only one to say, a stock exchange agency of less than 400 million and only one investment to catch 1.4 billion. In particular, as far as the draft law is concerned, I have to say: I was one of those who was still electorally telling truths. For example, I was saying that the largest company in the country, which is called upon to work in a state of intense competition, cannot apply procedures that apply to the public sector, must face damage and needs. At a time when its competitors are dealing with them at very short notice, it must apply procedures so that it can be consistent with its obligations. Nor can we want it to operate in a free economy and competition and, at the same time, cannot make the recruitment of its staff - I said it, and then I say it now - in a fast, safe and controlled way, however. I also consider it very important that the evaluation process of the executives is established for the first time, so that the executives that are responsible for PPC are also market officials, as is the case with the company. It is a constant process of progressing and improving the capacity of the company's own human resources. I would also like to say that the arrangements introduced for the company's human resources, namely mobility within companies within the group, the transfer of staff to other public sector bodies, but also the voluntary exit, which, I would say, do not adversely affect the interests of workers, regardless of whether they have been heard about the contrary. I think it's a move in the right direction. I would also like to say here that, of course, I understand and fully understand what this means to workers and, of course, I accept the protests as an expression of opposition. I also realise that more attractive and pleasant and pleasurable would be to express the opposite view, but that is not the case. And why isn't it like that? Because I would like the people of my region to judge me for my positions, for the issues of voting for the abolition of the NOMEs that save EUR 90 million, which, as I said earlier in another speech, should and should be given to the contractors and the actors in the region. I would also like to say that the wage costs of PPC workers are not affected. In relation to the efforts made by the government and PPC to identify systematic malpractices, I would say that funding actions, savings of funds for the OHIMs of the past years are actions that enhance its competitiveness, so in that sense we can talk about different things. I would add that in the matter of a discount on the energy tariff for PPC's employees and pensioners and its subsidiaries, I believe that 30%, which has been chosen as a solution, could be combined with the prediction that it should not be considered as workers' income. It must be that way, in my opinion. It will reduce the profit that PPC workers enjoyed, as in other companies, as the Minister said in an old briefing, but the final cost for PPC will be the same, while the employees will earn the taxes they represent. I would also add, because there was not much talk of this, that it is very important that the provision for a reduction in the night tariff is very important and that it concerns, in particular, consumers who use electric water heaters. I would add to the question of Article 24 that it is also very important to add and predict the Ministry and the Minister's provision that the possibility be given to orchards, where there is also the need for standardisation and packaging of agricultural products, for small manufacturing enterprises to be set up. Continuing, another subject that was also not mentioned at all is the following. I thank the Ministry, who now knows that it is giving a solution to a huge issue concerning the region, a huge development project, which is the road project linking Florina and Ptolemais. It is finally a solution, as the provision of Article 37 releases the potential restrictions that might exist in the submission of the dossier to the NSRP and the project may inevitably continue to be studied by the ‘ENGINATION OF LEVEL S.A.’ and be integrated into the NSRF 2014-2020. It was a project that was a product of constant consultation of local communities, it was a demand for the social and economic actors in the region, and I believe that with this arrangement you are putting your seal on a, I would say, great development intervention in western Macedonia. Finally, I would like to point out your very positive intervention with your amendment, which you have tabled, which regulates the smooth implementation of the special development programme of the lignite regions, but not only that, you regulate in a very positive way, and the continuation of the specific development fee programme. Ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to the next initiatives and regulations of the government, which I know are under way, to the future of the lignite regions under low-lip print energy production arrangements. After PPC, the areas hosting its activities take turn. It is worth investing in these necessary resources to make their transition smooth and effective through the equivalents to be created. Our region, ladies and gentlemen, has supported the development of the country in the last sixty years, tourism, industry, crafts and rural development. Compensation in the region as a national obligation is an act of acceptance of what it has offered and the obligation of the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u563	Mr. Pulas Andreas has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u564	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, once again, a piece of legislation with a brief debate on the committee in the course of constitutional revision and with the introduction to plenary just one day ago is to be adopted. In any case, we have waited longer than the Ministry of Environment and Energy bill. It should have developed a comprehensive plan to regulate the energy market, to ensure energy adequacy. Instead, we are faced with another fragmentary legislative initiative. There are no visions, no reform, no serious proposals with a view to the future. We remain the poor relatives of Europe in the field of the market, supply and production of energy and also energy planning. The core of the bill is PPC, the "Public Gas Company" and the energy perspective of the country. This bill moves on the following axes: The first axis is the violent frustration of the domestic energy market, without a plan for the country's energy adequacy and without provision, on the one hand, for its consequences and, on the other, for addressing the social and economic consequences that will arise. It is not only a strategic choice of the present, but also of the previous government, the deterioration of PPC, the reduction of its role in domestic energy consumption and the granting, by law, of a larger share of the electricity market to individuals. SYRIZA who is currently being cut for PPC's viability, as a government, was embarrassed in exploiting his human resources and infrastructure. On the other hand, it succumbed to the pressure of domestic and foreign investors, provided for a reduction in its position on the domestic energy market and for a strengthening of its liquidity. Unlike the above, what does the Change Movement support? Firstly, it supports the gradual and equitable replacement of lignite without harming the lignite-fired areas, removing the development damage that will be caused in lignite regions by developing reliable development planning, affordable prices rather than creating harmonised practices by private providers at the expense of the consumer, exploiting PPC's modern infrastructure and valuable human resources, by upgrading its position in the energy market and promoting competition and developing a dynamic and reliable national energy and environment plan containing the country's long-term energy planning. Unfortunately, none of this exists in the draft law under discussion. The second axis concerns the privatisation of energy. Again, the government, loyal to its programme, promotes full privatisation, hairening the healthy company DEPA S.A. to individual companies for which 65% of the share capital is provided for by law. The following questions are raised: Why are you chopping a healthy and profitable business and handing it over to private individuals? What is the plan for the country's energy fortification? How does the public interest guarantee free and uninterrupted access to the good of energy for foreign and domestic individuals? How are public goods protected in a modern democracy in the Western world and what are the insurance margins you provide? And as I come from Argolida Prefecture, will we finally get some gas either for domestic or agricultural use in our county? The third axis refers to the deregulation of employment relations with non-ACP recruitment and violation of collective agreements for new recruiting staff. The small and weak PPC that you promote is devastated by its staff, which will either be directed to the voluntary exit at a significant cost for the company whether it will be promoted to subsidiaries or retired. Who's going to stay in a company that's gradually deceived and petty? The private sector officials who are inviting you to pay incentives, and as my colleague, Mr Constantinople, said, you saw what wages they had, cannot save a company that is mainly based on the honor of its employees. Let us not repeat the phenomenon that we have seen in the recent period of filling up the positions of governors in hospitals with party officials. You selected with purely party criteria people called to run nursing units with huge problems. If you think the same about PPC, the model will definitely fail. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot publish growth without a balanced involvement of the public and private sectors. A weak public sector, particularly in the area of public utility services, is contrary to the principle of public interest service and fundamental provisions of the Constitution that we have recently revised are being circumvented. The Change Movement, as the party that defended the public interest and responsiblely protected the citizens' right to benefits of general interest, seeks a serious and long-term national plan for the domestic energy market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u565	Thank you, too, for the time economy. Mr. Christos Spirtzis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u566	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my position, I would like to make a call to buy a printer for the Ministerial Council. It is not much for Parliament's budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u567	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u568	Secondly, I listened carefully to the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, and the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Lebanon, who spoke about collective memory and that the draft law is an ideological seal of the New Democracy. I call on all the wings of the House, apart from the JRC, to denounce together two dogmatic communists who ruled the country: Constantine Karamanlis and Constantine Mitsotakis. I read because what we have heard today is tragic: here are a few measures which the New Democracy is carrying out and which together with the authorities of the free economy are the form of a joint venture. A: State investment initiatives. I will mention examples entirely recently: the acquisition of Olympic Airways and Railways, the takeover by the State of research and subsequent exploitation of underground wealth, the 'OECD Company', new mining legislation, etc. These initiatives must be added to the former owners of electricity, telecommunications, the sugar industry, etc. These are from a book by Constantine Callia, a close associate of Constantine Karamanlis entitled "The ideology of the New Democracy". I imagine that now that Mr. Father has no work to do, you will have him write a new book on the ideology of the New Democracy, because Mr. Hadjidakis is also exposed and the New Democracy's policy review of all these issues: 'Olympian', rail, telecommunications and everything else. I also appeal to you to denounce the fact that I heard the Minister say about the dogmatic, communist, privileged electricity discounts in PPC, which was introduced in 1990 by Constantine Mitsotakis. A second dogmatic communist who ruled the country. And in order to stop the jokes we hear from New Democracy all the time we discuss the bill, we should compare this model of privatisation - I am not saying 'Olympic' with zero euros or rail - for the New Democracy which is OTE. If you take a phone call, Minister, an OTE worker, you will find that he continues with communist and dogmatic discounts on his employees on the invoices of fixed telephony, mobile telephony and 'COSMOTE TV'. It's terrible. Get Mr. Chamage to get him. He's a dogmatic communist. Yesterday, the dogma communist media announced something we do not have in all these decades, which you tell us about the model of OTE privatisation. Because, obviously, some people wanted to hide that we are the country with the most expensive tariff for data and telecommunications. And that's your plan for PPC. What you did with OTE who even his account is abroad, who did not stay here on Greek satellite, who did not update the telecommunications networks and we still have copper and not optical fibres and which the consumer pays the most expensive data in Europe, this is your plan for PPC. Of course, I imagine that this dreadful programme that you have, you will be extending and abolishing the free ticket to workers in the urban transport sector in the OSH and in the OSH and the discounts that all workers have in the area of employment, even in private companies. It makes sense to you. But remember what you did. You did not let PPC invest in renewable energy, as you had done with OTE, when mobile telephony started. You didn't even let her invest in lignite, you didn't let her staff renew. You did not allow the island to be interconnected. You have over-subsidised the private sector to renewable energy sources. PPC donated it. You put the production of electricity from natural gas as if it were a renewable source of energy. And you're asking for the change. That's terrible. I imagine - we, as we are watching you, because you are very good technocrats and European politicians, give us some information to bring this draft law. I, Mr Colleague, have had the honour of serving at the Technical Chamber and of working with fellow engineers from all over the political spectrum in the Standing Committee on Energy and of working as a freelance professional, because I have never worked in the public sector, with PPC officials in production plants in western Macedonia. So you'll allow me to tell you why it's worth mentioning these people - most of them are gone... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like a minute more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u569	No minute. In the seven minutes you'll be done, just like everyone else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u570	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u571	We have to respect each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u572	...was the Democrat Market, which was then a professor, Kostas Alexopoulos was a general secretary at the government of Mitsotakis, Christos Sinanis from the Coalition, Nikos Batistatos from the KKE. So these people told us a number of basic principles about the energy sector. And I would expect Mr Hatzidakis to tell us, because they are European politicians, about the modernisation of PPC, which has been raped by this term. At what cost of production will it be? With what energy mix does the government plan? What energy demand forecast does it have? What are the savings? What is the proposal for fuel oil plants in Greece? What's the cost? When will the interconnection networks be implemented? When will the natural gas networks be implemented to have primary consumption? We should all have had these data to discuss such a draft law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Thank you for your indulgence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u573	You should think the time is 1.00' and they're still eight speakers. It is for the rapporteurs to have a second thought. I have the impression you understand. It's not the Bureau. It's the time we have to respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u574	You're right. I'm done, then. Those of us who worked together and met PPC's family know that this family offered the country, the citizens' development in research, the transfer of know-how, the training of technical staff for engineers. We know that he paid for the development of renewable energy sources in the private sector and not just. We know that it has contributed strategically to the development of the country and to energy planning. We know that it has contributed exclusively to the health and safety of workers. We know that it has contributed to defending the working framework and the rights of workers. We know that he produced executives who sent the private sector after retirement. We know they transferred knowing that he represented the country...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u575	Now put it to perfection, Mr Spirtzi, because you said 'thank you' and you've exceeded eight and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u576	I'm putting it down. Because the Minister has also served in Brussels, I would like to ask one final question, because he has even presented the exception of PPC from the procurement law as modernization. Minister, one of the main rules of the directives...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u577	Mr Spirtzi, you must respect the procedure and the colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u578	Deal. He must, however, tell us if he believes that every ECJ must have its own procurement rules.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u579	You're done. Mr. Dragon, come on. Mr. Spirji never ends.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u580	To say it to honor his course in Brussels.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u581	Mr. Theodore Dritsas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u582	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today - or better yesterday, since it is 1.10' - it is a day when the ceremonial state of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy received a very great blow from the media, from the flagship of communication armor built by SKAI. It is not an isolated episode of the eighth year old Mr. Father who gladly described the reality. It is the reality of the entire Greek people, the client network in all areas of public life and the transaction. In hospitals it's a long tradition. Another "star" appointed in a Greek hospital with two previous terms was a priority, not only in customer relations, but even in the elections, his own people and even the patients were sharing lists. This gentleman has been reappointed in the same hospital as he has done in the past two terms, intervening an excellent term of office for the man on our own government and supporting him by the local community, so that the mayor will also protest, not our own, the neo-democratic mayor and the president of the new Republic. It's not an isolated episode, it's not two, it's not three. It's a general transaction, a client network. No relation has been made with an attempt to set off that 'you too did it'. Let us not forget that this does not now fit in a debate before the Greek people. Is that the argument? If we did it, you shouldn't. If you do it, we shouldn't do it. Is this a debate within Parliament? To God. So what happened in the editorial state today as a blow will not stay there. Everything will be revealed, because it is a party of trading people as a system of power, and that is what the entire Greek people know. Unfortunately, some part of the anticipation of a share of this transaction. It's small. And another part does not understand that we all have to react to it. Mr President, two hours ago SYRIZA MP, comrade Efi Ahtsoglou, former Minister, on a documentary basis, tabled all the documentary documents to verify her own claims against what Mr Hatzidakis and the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Mr Plouris said this morning. They even claimed in a festive way, being abused by the majority wing, that the opposition to unconstitutionality was based on false and misleading evidence, on all of this. It's all said. Mrs Ahchioglu's documentaries are in the Minutes. We expect the documentaries of the Minister to form an opinion of the entire Parliament. They didn't testify. What I care about, though, to raise a point of another class. Mr Tassoulus also violated and violated the spirit and letter of the Rules of Procedure this morning concerning the request by a Member of Parliament, Mrs Ahtsioglou, for an ad hoc report. It was the case that the Rules of Procedure were consistent with Mrs Ahtsoglou's request. It has not even given her the right to explain why this request is being made. The President has been elected by an unprecedented majority in the Greek Parliament, precisely because we all want him to be President of all Parliament's wings. So what happened today must never be repeated. I'm on my way to matters. The objection of constitutionality, in particular, focused on labour issues. New jobs, well paid, said Mr. Mitsotakis. And now, we have a voluntary exit, a replacement for the old with new workers, without an ADP, with reduced rights and reduced fees. Is that new jobs the well paid? And without collective autonomy! But can the development role of PPC and the Greek economy be planned without the workers? Is it possible to ignore the know-how of PPC's people whatever a category one can at times formulate, unfounded or anything? Can anyone ignore the huge role of workers in this development operation of PPC over these decades? And I ask the Minister if he will hire without an APA and with reduced aeronautics. If we know what aeronautics are. And will PPC be able to do business with such a low-paid staff? Ladies and gentlemen, there will be no PPC if New Democracy remains in power shortly. Mr. Hatzidakis said at the beginning, after telling us in August with the fires that PPC does not have any money to pay for columns, he told us that it will not be sold, not because he does not want it or is not in his plans, but because there is no buyer. I would like to ask the Minister if he can say this again today that the PPC will not be sold voluntarily, explicitly and unequivocally.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u583	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u584	I'll finish. No one forgets that both Mr Stathakis and Mr Famelos and Mr Panayotakis, twice in 2019 and several times in 2018, had come to the Committee on Production and Trade and had exposed all the issues and the problem of PPC's liquidity and the problem of transition. But no one from New Democracy then told us PPC was falling apart. The evidence was all in everyone's hands. Some people should finally tell the truth. The PPC strategy includes selling. That's a choice. The rest is to fool and mock people. Well, we tell the Minister, we tell the New Democracy, that the editorial state of transaction and preference in the oligarchies will not be able to sell PPC. Here we will be and you will see it, because PPC is a front for the country's development perspective.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u585	Mrs. Vetta Calliope from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u586	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the provisions in the bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy are indicative of the hard neoliberal direction adopted by the government as a whole. We have concessions, privatisations, scandalous rights on the one hand and Golden Boys on the other, increases in electricity prices, cuts and reductions in rights to thousands of workers on the other. It's the neoliberal logic that's been tested and failed everywhere at her height. New Democracy's plan for the future of energy in Greece is as follows: An energy market with the main pillar PPC devalued, with more expensive tariffs of up to 20% from 1 September 2019, with a distinction against the new entrants, as two-speed workers are created, with the exception of the recruitment rules of PPC. A energy market where parts of production and distribution are cut and sold, a market where natural gas networks are granted to individuals. A market in which a desecrated and unreasonable extinction occurs. A market that does not ensure self-sufficiency for citizens and businesses, which raises reasonable questions about the feasibility of the Ministry's targets. In the name of PPC’s so-called modernisation, therefore, the government’s plan is evident. Let European institutions say in their official texts that it is not a reform plan to privatise or increase the electricity price for consumers. Let them press to see the government’s infamous plan, setting strict limits and timetables. For the Government, the Ministry and their communication channels there is a cosmogenicity, a revolution in the energy market. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many issues I could raise. However, due to time pressure, I will refer to a few points. First of all, I would like to make a general remark concerning the deliberate depreciation and devaluation of the role of PPC and its employees. I call on all transparent prosecutors to be more eminent and more read about PPC's historic contribution to Greek society and economy. They must also know about the workers that, in their overwhelming majority, they supported the work of reforming the company and Greece even at the expense of their own lives sometimes. However, I would also like to stress the attack on the rights of PPC workers today for another reason: never, with the sad exception of the times of the second Memorandum, a collective labour contract was destroyed, that is to say, a decision by two parties under a legislative provision. Because that's what happens today with the bill we're talking about. If anyone claims that workers were favoured by rich benefits, they should think long before they are subjected to a social canalism offence that a collective labour contract should never be unilaterally called into question because it opens very dangerous paths to work in our country. But the prosecutors of the public nature of the energy - I mentioned above - are neither unspeakable nor undetectable. They're ideological and obsessive. Because if they wanted to protect the Greek consumer, they would go ahead with a simple demonstration of consensus, which would change the energy map in our country. And I'm explaining on this. As soon as yesterday in the debate on the Revision of the Constitution, we have lost the opportunity to incorporate a series of articles which would guarantee the highest validity and value, which gives the top statute, a series of social and individual rights. One of the articles concerned the amendment of Article 21, which, according to our proposal, would include the provision that goods such as water and electricity and their distribution networks will be subject to public service regimes and would be subject to public control. Today, two days later, we learned the reason for New Democracy's refusal to support this article, which would change the entire debate on energy as a public and accessible good. This is what we at least advocate, unlike the government that it considers to be exchangeable and enclosed. This is the well-known disobedience of neoliberal thinking and practice to any public good. In conclusion, I should like to refer to something that concerns my country, Kosani. As soon as yesterday Ptolemais became a great rally, despite the rain, against the liberation of western Macedonia. A rally that was not perceived by any of the national media. The main issues raised were the gradual and sustainable transition to a new energy model, respect for labour acquired, support for the region, environmental welfare, land, agricultural production, infrastructure. However, I appreciate that the main message was the demand for respect. A society and an area that has supported PPC over all these years, a society that directly or indirectly bases on half of GDP, about 45%, on PPC-related productive activities, demands respect for the government and the relevant Ministry. It deserves not to be surprised by Prime Minister's statements, when there was no mention of any violent closure of lignite plants. It deserves a clear and thorough justification for this decision, when there is even strong opposition. It is worth a clear and structured development plan for the region. She deserves care and care for her residents. It deserves not to be treated in short as a region of second importance. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by repeating that - as I have said from the outset - the plan of the PPC Government is incomplete. It does not guarantee anything other than the wages and privileges of its favoured, as it removes the bill of wages for them, when every protection net is tearing down for young workers. I call on you - as I call on all citizens standing against this development - to oppose us to adopt sustainable and long-term energy solutions in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u587	Mr Chrysomalis Miltiadis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u588	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after hearing almost this morning I hear a general criticism of the Civic Opposition, as a little earlier than the former Minister, that you did not do one, that you did not do the other, what you will do about the third, about PPC, or about transport, as if they had confused times. Four and a half months are ruled by New Democracy and four and a half years were ruled by SYRIZA. And we hear a criticism like New Democracy has been ruling for eight years, and it's SYRIZA for eight years in Opposition. Don't be in a hurry, gentlemen of Officerial Response, this will also be the case. But then you will not have any arguments for such criticism, because our facts will be the ones that will prove otherwise. With regard to today's bill, I heard earlier than a preconceived officer from the Officerial Representation - I will not mention the name why he is not in the Chamber at the moment - that this bill does not come in vain - I say it is said - but it comes after attempts to depreciate the operation. It really happened what Mr Hatzidakis said earlier. In all the lies you're telling, you say no truth, and nobody listens to it. Because that's really the truth. After four and a half years of governing SYRIZA you brought PPC where it is today. That's why today there's this bill, just to solve the problem you inherited us. Does anyone disagree that PPC is at a limit point? Does anyone disagree that PPC has been taken a step before bankruptcy? You put a sworn accountant, the «ERNST & YOUNG», in spring, and the exhibition was very clear. He says, "There is substantial uncertainty that will raise significant doubts about the company's and the group's ability to continue their activities." In simple terms, it tells you that you have brought PPC to the limits of the closure. But you tried once again - because this is how it happens with SYRIZA, if the data and reality do not suit SYRIZA, this is too bad for reality - to build a virtual reality that PPC was fine and the bad New Democracy government destroys it in just four months. You say that we have also caused the damage that reaches 542 million in 2018. You say and we ruled in 2018. Or that we damaged 600 million of NOME auctions. If that's possible! Who was ruling? You even insisted that it was not your choice for NOMEs, that it was a very strong commitment from the former Government of New Democracy. First of all, you did not negotiate the third memorandum, someone else negotiated it! Nor is it yours.4389/2016! Someone else was ruling back then! In fact, Mr Famelos tried to convince us in committee that the previous government of Samaras wanted at the same time the NOMEs and to privatise the "little" PPC and that thankfully SYRIZA came and stopped privatisation and applied only NOMEs. They're the famous lies you're using, trying to reverse reality. It also tabled the relevant text of the fourth Memorandum of Understanding to prove this to us. However, the relevant reference to Article 7 in the text which he has submitted, or did he simply want to silence it? Because this referral mentions the self-evident ‘NOME will be phased out when Small PPC is prevated’. The translation in word is: "NOME will be abolished when PPC's "little" will be privatised", which is why the previous government will not implement the NOMEs went directly to privatization of the "little" PPC, which you canceled. I would also like to put the text on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Miltiadis (Miltos) Chrysomallis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You can understand, gentlemen, that with your ideas, you have brought PPC to the limits of bankruptcy, because he even said a colleague earlier than Civicism that this project is a plan without a plan. You're confused, SYRIZA doesn't rule. The plan without plan was you who left PPC in the face of defoliation and forced it to sell power with damage to PPC’s competitors below costs. It's a global originality to privatize, which you don't just take a euro, but you pay your competitors to create their own company. We have taken the burden - and we will do so - to bring it up and make it sustainable again. If anyone notices the stock value compared to May and today, it will obviously see that we do so and we do so very well. The same is believed by the ‘STANDARD & POOR’S’, which in its PPC assessment, in which it considers that the measures taken by the Government are expected to reverse the negative course of the last months of PPC, while those price adjustments made are neutral to consumers. We come with a specific plan for PPC, we rescue it, we restructure it and modernise it administratively and we give them the tools it needs to stand on its feet in an open energy market. We move on to liberation and privatise the TEN to give the company that needed it and open it more on the renewable energy market. Therefore, gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let the crocodile tears for the workers, for the company and for the new recruitment of staff now under contracts of indefinite duration. We did not see the same sensitivity to the thousands of workers with fixed-term contracts employed by PPC and its contractors over the years that you have ruled and neither the same sensitivity to thousands of workers when you were mathematically driving it into destruction. You are also coming today to move our finger, because we are choosing the newly recruited PPC to sign contracts for indefinite duration, that is, as thousands of young people who work with corresponding contracts in the private sector are signing up. What are these for you? Guys of a lower god? PPC must confront its competitors equivalently, continue to be sustainable, to be profitable, and so it will again be the country's main energy pillar. We don't live in the days of PPC's monopoly. It is time for PPC to acquire a strong, modern and competitive form to move dynamically towards the future. Therefore, it is right that you, too, get in touch with the truth, get in touch with reality. In any case, you will again be judged for this by the Greek people. In conclusion, I should like to congratulate and thank the Minister for the amendment he has accepted, the one we have tabled together with seven other colleagues, as well as the Minister for Rural Development, who has politically supported this amendment, which increases the percentage of electricity produced that we can give PPC from 20% to 75% for farmers who have renewable energy sources. In other words, this increase will substantially enhance the possibility of farmers' self-producers to depreciate their depreciation from renewable energy sources more quickly. It will close down - and this is the big issue - the cost of production of agricultural products, and of course it will also increase their income. I'm glad to hear Mr. Apostleu earlier from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u589	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u590	I shall conclude, Mr President. I am pleased to hear Mr Apostleou earlier from SYRIZA who, in his Syrian way, adopted this amendment. In other words, he agreed by disagreeing or disagreed by agreeing, in his way in fact he agreed. I understand that some of you may bother them that positive measures are taken for the people of production and especially for farmers, but what to do, it is not your exclusive prerogative of the prolean policy. I have heard some strange criticism and this amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u591	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u592	... that with this amendment we will destroy the electricity market. You say this to us who at the same time blame us for defenders of the market. Anyway, make up your mind, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u593	Mr. George Mulkiotis from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u594	Ladies and gentlemen, I will make three comments before I go into the bill. The first observation is that you symptomaticly do, Minister, and your Ministry is a vehicle to have a "attack" - you may not like the word but it is a "attack" - on labour rights. The first Ministry was the Ministry of State. When the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs had come here, and ten minutes before the vote was held, it brought changes to labour issues. The second "attack" was with the development bill, which has also been orchestrated by provisions against labour rights. The third "attack" is with today's bill. The second point concerns Article 24. Mr Minister, coming from a rural area, I fear that soon we may reap photovoltaics. I do not say that, and it does not concern farmers with this bill. I wish it were for the farmers. Perhaps, it is a question of the infamous system of investors, who want to do anything without any interest in what the primary sector says. But it's not like that. I say it and repeat it, I'm afraid we'll reap photovoltaics. It could well be that Article 24 relates to other areas that are dry, mountainous, mountainous, is next to high productivity, but not to high productivity land. Thirdly, you refer to the modernisation of PPC. I am surprised that the financial information in relation to the debts of third parties to PPC is not taken into account in this draft law? I am speaking straight to you about Larco, which, incidentally yesterday, our country was referred back by the European Commission to the European Court of Justice. There are so many debts from LARCO and there is no mention of what is going on with them, how they are moving with this bill. It is a rough and fragmented bill and is introduced, ladies and gentlemen, without an integrated operational plan and a long-term energy planning plan and degreasing, as required by the European Commission. When we were talking here a month ago in plenary about the development bill, we had a negative attitude to the plans of the New Democracy Government to dismantle collective labour agreements. We were clearly saying that they are leading to a complete deterioration with an impact on the strengthening of employers' immunity. PPC's space leads to this. We were at stake at that time saying that the lack of collective agreements or the weakening of content limits the conditions of social cohesion in the functioning of the labour market and inactivates the right to collective bargaining as a fundamental social right. The bill we are debating today may be the best proof that the New Democracy Government's plan is clear as well as in terms of labour relations. After all, Mr. Mitsotakis has said so. "We will scan as a roller the obstacles that keep entrepreneurship captive." On other issues the New Democracy may have made a hundred and eighty degrees of turn from its populist and election pre-election positions, for example, for the Ambassadors' Agreement or the tragedy in Eye or the refugee, which others said as opposition and others as government. But where the New Democracy remains unmoved, in favour of business interests, it is at work. "Roller" has promised to be a "roller" is. In addition, the new work model, in which the New Democracy promises and aims, the employee's model, as Mr Mitsotakis has again stated, is based on new forms of work and, of course, moves to the discreet limits between work dependent, that is to say, employment and the supposed independence of the employee. In this context, the provisions provided for in the bill under discussion were included, according to which both in the case of PPC workers and those in PPC, the Government seems to want to express a purely anti-government policy: Attacking labour rights. It abolishes the duplicate security valves creating an unjust and unequal working environment. In the case of PPC, in the bill, there is no provision for workers employed by the group companies via contractors. The changes that are taking place in PPC create two speed workers, as has been said - and it has been quite rightly said - and, unfortunately, they are preparing for appointments of one day. New workers are outside operational collective agreements and outside the Rules of Procedure. We have lived before in 1993 on the eve of the elections. They're habits that don't change. It's "houi", as we say in my village. So it emerged as we all remember the Peponies Act, the well-known S.H.I.E.L.D., because of that choice, 1993. In '93, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, it remains a monument and a model of customer relations, whether you like it or not, and you will be persecuted all along the way of the New Democracy. For us, the abolition of the permanentity that the government claims is falsified and is falsified, whether we laugh or not, because it had been abolished since 2012. And don't forget that and don't say it as an argument, because it's funny, if not naive. The Change Movement calls for increased safeguards and substantial security controls for the worthwhile uptake of both staff and market managers, through ASP, but not through ASP "little", through ASP completely. The APA is not short or too much. It's S.H.I.E.L.D. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it only controls legality and all the other committees that are appointed and related to PPC. So there is an institutional shield for the workers? Therefore, the draft law provides only for "the eyes of the world" as it is commonly called. Apart from the work, where all the operators criticised the government for its arrangements, the proposed bill is supposed to modernise PPC, reducing its operating costs and moving to voluntary output programmes. But there are no feasibility studies, no figures, no budgets. Mr Arvanitides asked you during the debate in committees and we ask you again, Minister: What is the operating benefit? What do you save from resources and how is this documented? We believe that the bill, with which you are in a hurry to carry out the work of generalising the downgrading of wages and working rights, is aimed only at it and nothing else. You do not care that the legislation creates two-speed workers, with old people having better wages and working conditions and young people having worse wages and working conditions. But do you not care that this is how the simple principle of equal pay for equal work is being dismantled? None of this should, of course, surprise us, because the Prime Minister himself had said at any time: "I have no illusions about a society without inequality. This is contrary to human nature." That's what the Prime Minister said. So don't expect anything different from the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u595	Mr Nikolaos Manolakos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u596	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following with great attention the debate which is taking place today in plenary, but also the debate that has taken place in public life, what I understand is that two different worlds actually conflict: on the one hand those who want a public electricity company closely and suffocately embraced with the state and on a full and lasting dependency on it, not only economic but policy, since their objective every time they take over power, is that they be able to set up their electorate. On the other hand, there are those who want and seek a modern electricity company, a European standard company that invests systematically in renewable energy sources and which is able to ensure conditions of energy security and energy self-sufficiency, and those who envision a modern electricity company, with high environmental standards and fairer pricing policy. The draft law seeks to be the catalyst for moving to a new, innovative and environmentally friendly energy age. The point is that, with the targeted improvement interventions that are being promoted, distortions and injustices of decades can be corrected. Amongst other things, recruitments are becoming more flexible, involving, of course, the ADP, providing additional incentives for the market-oriented approach of skilled managers and encouraging internal mobility of workers. And of course, the scandalous privileged discount, which currently applies to the workers and pensioners of PPC, and whose exorbitant percentage is causing the rest of society. Because it is not possible for well-paid workers to enjoy a 75% discount on the current account at the same time as low-wage and low-pension workers are invited to pay the entire invoice. Ladies and gentlemen, those who disagree with this bill know that the existing polluting energy mix cannot be implemented in 2019 on the subject of PPC. Ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, only prosecutors are not entitled to be, and I remind you of why. Let me remind you how you delivered PPC. Operation last year lost 2.5 million and this year another 300. I would remind you of the report by the sworn accountant, who was talking about not continuing the operation of the operation and its dubious viability. Let me remind you that you wanted to smash the Memorandum by a law, and finally brought 49% privatisation to IPTO and 66% to IPTO. Sale of mines? Exhaust of late payments? Counselling? Destructive electricity auctions and pollutant emissions? Especially the last two cost PPC more than 600 million. Let me remind you, finally, that the company's stock lost over 80% of its stock exchange value on your government. Unfortunately, you are not aware of the reality, because only someone out of reality would have the nerve, while a business has destroyed, to blame the person who has led its share three times above the value. I mean, from what I've heard, you want us to apologize. Should we apologize, ladies and gentlemen, for abolishing the auctions leading to PPC with mathematical accuracy on the cliff? Apologise for being faithful to our program at a rapid pace to rescue PPC, which, from your frustration and hesitation, was one step ahead of bankruptcy? To apologise, which, for our day, PPC has received the most prestigious certificate of viability, which we modernize with acts and works and obviously not with wishes? Ladies and gentlemen, the risk is that we should approach, in particular, important and national issues, with a view not to the small-party interest but only to the national benefit. Our Greece must not lose the train for energy reforms, because the geostrategic changes that are taking place in the wider Mediterranean basin and in our neighbourhood, the Balkans, have energy issues as a front. So to keep our homeland from losing the train, we need to solve the reformist brake and run over gas. I urge you, with your vote, to act on the one hand as the driving lever of the country's energy transformation and, on the other, as the gas that will give impetus to the transition to a new, extroverted era. Finally, I call on you to also function as a clutch who isolates those voices that for micro-party purposes are trying to frustrate the country's energy development. In closing, the country needs a serious national energy policy for the next decade, which will allow it to become a leader in Southeast Europe. This bill puts precisely this first bit of stone to work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u597	And we're closing the list of our fellow Members with Mrs Pulou from SYRIZA for seven minutes. It was right, ladies and gentlemen, my prediction that we would go 2.00 in order to eliminate the list first. But we still have time. Here, Mrs. Pulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u598	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today it is finally clear that in the process of constitutional revision New Democracy has refused to vote on the SYRIZA proposal to safeguard energy as a social asset. For New Democracy, access for all citizens to clean and affordable energy is not and should not be a regulated right in constitutional terms. In the model of insurmountable liberalism, which, for reasons of ideology - which is becoming and ideology ultimately - seems to be followed by New Democracy, everything needs to be privatised. However, the sale of the undertakings under public control does not strengthen the development. Historical experience has shown that the full privatization and loss of public control over social goods, such as energy, does not imply any development, but above all does not imply social benefit. The SYRIZA's position is that the state must at least ensure that citizens have access to the public goods so that the principle of the welfare state is realised. But even if one believes in intergovernmental liberalism, even if we wanted to pursue the policy of the New Democracy, even if the Government was really aiming to restructure PPC, then where are the business plan in question, ladies and gentlemen of the government? Where is the costed model and how does the necessity of what you are currently introducing, supposedly, for the salvation of PPC arise? Is there a report on sustainability? Where are the technological elements and where exactly have you considered any findings? Was there any result of a study of the arbitrary increases that you imposed from September 15% to 20% on PPC's tariffs, with which you are burdening households and businesses? Obviously not. In fact, you have pushed out consistent consumers and shrunk PPC's clientele. Because, despite your announcements, you don't want the resolution of PPC. You want her deportation. You don't want to save her. All you want is her sellout. In practice, the only project you have is the deregulation of the energy market, the sale of infrastructure, the depreciation of PPC through the sale of distribution networks, the non-safety of access to energy for everyone and the non-transparent service of interests. Also, your bill promotes the overthrow of industrial relations by abolishing collective bargaining and promoting individual contracts in breach of Articles 4 and 22 of the Constitution. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, the bill is at the expense of the public interest and once again the burden, namely the bill, will be paid by the taxpayers. Among other things, PPC's debts go to funds, i.e. foreign hands outside PPC. In practice, this means harassment for consumers who delay payments, it means power cuts, it means confiscations and auctions. Or do citizens have to go out in order to be able to meet their needs at lower energy costs? I am referring to the regulation on night tariffs, which, however, only concerns a small proportion of domestic consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus briefly on the following issues: Firstly, in the provisions on the gas market in which the New Democracy also legislates the sale of its natural gas networks. The entire proportion of public 65% is now allocated to private individuals both in infrastructure and in marketing. A private monopoly is created on natural gas networks with the money of the Greek public, that is, the Greek people. The public with no role nor that of minority shareholders can even guarantee the country's energy security. Monopoly management and ownership of the network, based on economic and international experience, raises the costs for households and businesses and does not, of course, ensure the expansion of the network to as many areas as possible, if there is no established profit, and in particular does not invest in the non-preferential regions of the region. Members of the Government, I would like you to give us at least one responsible answer if the development of the natural gas network in the regions, in particular in thirty-five cities, as has been planned so far and there are guaranteed appropriations. In the Region of Central Greece, the process of studies involving the development of the natural gas network in Lamia, Chalkida, but also in Livadia and Thebes in the Prefecture of Boeotia, from where I come from, has progressed. What will come of it? What guarantees do you give for the implementation of the projects? We're waiting for your answer. As far as employment is concerned, many colleagues have been put on the table. I just want to point out the snatching of ASA in PPC recruitment. You also have a lot of experience in mass recruitment in general and especially in PPC. Now you also anticipate the intake of Golden Boys but it makes sense. You are generally in favour of the Golden Boys and of the Golden Parties, which you are placing in service, as recently as in the administration of hospitals. Article 24 of the bill provides for the installation of photovoltaics up to 1MW in high productivity land by limiting to 1% of the cultivated areas of this regional unit. How is it documented that the vast majority of areas in the rest of the land available and less fertile are not sufficient? Does the government realize that this legislation alters the country's rural development strategy? With your amendment to town planning, remove from the documents contained in the electronic identity of buildings, the static adequacy certificate. This is an important issue and we ask you to revise. In a seismic country such as Greece - we are seeing the completely recent earthquakes in Albania and Crete - we cannot be content with vulnerability, i.e. ophthalmology or clinical examination, as engineers say. You are also proposing the possibility of the electronic identity being implemented not only by the public, but also by a private person. What guarantees will be used to ensure that this data is used? As far as your other forecasts are concerned, it is not possible if there is no building permit available in the service files, that the loss statement from the Construction Service should be sufficient, and that the dossier should not be reconstituted, as has been done so far. In practical terms, what does that mean? That there's gonna be buildings without an electronic identity, no evidence? Because then we wonder what interests are served and how many arbitrary situations will be covered. Finally, with regard to the regularisation of the arbitrary system, you are planning a six-year extension, while the extension granted has not been retroactive, although the deadline has already expired. These two issues, even legal, need to be looked at. Finally, is this a failure or a feasibility in the amendment? Because the whole bill is definitely the product of your neoliberal ideal. And because you are accustomed to accusing us of ideology against the private sector, we will once again clarify that, yes, we are and will be opposed, when the public property paid by taxpayers is sold for 'bier' in these private interests that you represent and serve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u599	Ladies and gentlemen, the list of speakers has been completed. Finally, my prediction was very precise. I said we'd finish the list at 2:00 and it's exactly 2:00. We will move on in the course of the seconds for the rapporteurs and the special speakers, who are indeed here this morning and are entitled to have one last word and we will start with Mr Arseni. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u600	Thank you very much, Mr President. With regard to the answer given by the State Secretary, Mr Economou, on the issue of the Star of Vouliagmeni, I would like to say that what has been said is completely untrue. I am referring to the amendment. What was said about the Star of Vouliani is completely untrue. It does not apply that the conditions of construction do not change. They change. It is true that divided ownership, horizontal and vertical, in the structure within the project, is allowed, but in the plan specifically for Stars, it is not allowed in most areas, and that is now allowed by this amendment, and while the competition has been judged. That's the big difference. Nor is the amendment to Article 3 innocent, which actually allows the basement of hotels to be used as accommodation areas. It is a very problematic amendment, it changes the nature and form of the hotels and I believe that even now it must be withdrawn. In fact, you also legalise things that have been done, but you also close your eyes to violations and arbitrarily to the future. Just think, any hotel that has a difference at this moment of gradient will suddenly be found to be a multi-storey hotel and all you say here is that the coverage on the ground will not change. This has nothing to do with the building factor, it has nothing to do with the volume to be built, it has nothing to do with the squares to be built. They are both completely unacceptable regulations and even now I invite you to withdraw them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u601	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Mrs Manolaku has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u602	The truth is, we watched a hypocrisy ball that was going between the government and the Officerial Controversy, a controversy about who was telling most of the lies. However, the aim of both, who hide it, is the privatisation of PPC. Already, he's started to take care of himself. Today, approximately 30% has been privatised and should reach 50%, according to the third memorandum. That is why the government intends to set up a strategic investor. But what's the tragic thing? Energy poverty for the people's layers will continue, at a time when untapped domestic energy resources are available and can reduce the price of kilowatts, but also make use of the productivity provided by domestic sources. As far as the land is concerned, the extent of this land is limited. Changing its use and making it industrial, this is counterproductive. And that's not all, but you're putting an incentive, 75% production over the needs, which is to cover the exploitation of farmers, that is, you're also turning them into energy dealers. In the presentation made by the Minister for Rural Development, what did he actually say to us? One vinegar, one oil, two oil. He told us, in other words, that those who were licensed would produce more. The licensee can do the facility, but what is he hiding? He's hiding two things. Firstly, that the majority of farms are indebted to go to install photovoltaics, as it owes to banks, owes insurance contributions, owes everywhere, and secondly, that the land of productivity is limited to an extent. So you're literally degrading productive lands. Finally, promote the RES and the draft bill and the government amendments and the amendments of the majority Members of Parliament. At the same time, you put the blackmail to the effect that 'if you do not vote for them, then you will apologise to the farmers'. To what farmers? The ones that, with your policy, are bankrupt? The ones who sell and don't know how, when and how much they get from their production? Why? Because you're supporting the great traders. In the name of farmers, therefore, you are promoting the great interests. We are also voting against the bill and most of its articles, but also the amendments that are'smell' ruffles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u603	Mr. Arvanitides of the Change Movement has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u604	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have been discussing this bill for sixteen hours already. However, as long as we talk about it, I think the arguments will be the same. It does not, of course, have to be an expert to find that SYRIZA's period in PPC screwed up. Okay, we've figured it out, and the Greek people understand it. From the ideas and choices he has made, he has led the company to a huge liquidity crisis. That's the reality. A huge liquidity crisis has been confronted by the company and you are coming, Minister, and in the programming statements the Prime Minister opens the DATA issue. You start the big story "save PPC". I mean, we're increasing electricity prices. I am not saying, if it is bad or not, but you are presenting it as if it were a zero result, because consumers will pay the same. It is a poor argument, however, at a time when clear words must be said. You are trying to deal with the unrealistics, which only PPC could somehow face, perhaps also face its cash problems. The third measure in support is to reduce the discount to the payers. As far as I remember, he was in the first rescue package, as you said. Is rescuing someone's liquidity? They are necessary measures - shock, which one needs to take, in order to be able to meet other obligations and not to be at risk of being at risk of payment. Suddenly, then, within the account, to remove the account from the other side on a pro-environment policy, you are opening the issue of frustration. Just like that. We had an ESRB and there we criticised all of us, like you, that we had ambitious targets and suddenly in Greece we decided that we would not have lignite. There is no main criticism, what are the base points, how will this country maintain its capacity to produce energy? What will be the role of the state in all this? That's the criticism I'm making. Present us with an integrated plan for the electricity market, how this country produces. Set a great goal, export is our country, tell us when and how you will achieve it, to enter a substantial dialogue. Honestly, Minister, you are dealing with one of the most crucial areas for the development of the country and how we go from now on. But put down the central rules. Of course, there are details and issues that we need to see, but tell us what you want to do and do not get rid of them when we criticise you because it makes very sense that what you think we cannot approach them in your own way. You'll say your positions and we'll answer them. That is what we are asking you to do, and I hope that with both the ESRB and the business plan of the company, which is not these arrangements, you can tell us where you want this company to go. What will PPC have? Will the state have an energy company or not? What units will you keep? What are you going to do with Ptolemais 5? We can't read that you're looking for new boilers that will burn the RDF. Say it. Clear words, communicate from now on. Otherwise, we can't move on. So, as a Change Movement we say no more PPC rescue with an increase in electricity, not another modernisation with attacks on labour rights. And I do not honestly understand why you are obsessed with the non-regulation of PPC employees of the three-year period of rights. Is this going to be attractive to the investor involved in the process of privatising the PPA? No more ligniteification without a plan and no more resources and let us stop this ping-Pong and the contrast that has no more content. SYRIZA was judged from now on you are judged. And honestly, I personally tell you to succeed, but we'll be here judging and watching your choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u605	The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Famelos, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u606	Mr President, it is very difficult after an inhuman day, very difficult for all of us, to comment on the choices made by the Bureau and the government. Two days' consultation, deposit of the bill last night and committees along with the Constitutional Review, and you did not do the favour of giving the MPs two days' debate. But let's get in a little bit. The word 'dream' has been heard many times today, Mr Hatzidakis. Indeed, it was a day of shame when it was discovered that the political tool of Mr.Mitsotakis is the political transaction, not only to hospital governors, but generally to service interests. That's how you became government, so you think you're going to stay. However, there are also issues in the bill that make you ashamed, because it is strange that the rapporteur, the Minister and the parliamentary representative dealt with the opposition to SYRIZA and not to table their own strategy. Why? Don't you have a strategy? No, you have strategy, selling is your strategy. But because you are ashamed of this strategy, you are responsibilities in opposition. But you're government. You cannot oppose opposition. Only 1/5 of the MPs came to defend your bill. That's what shows your ideological defeat, and that's why you're embarrassed, so that's why this upset guy. That's why you're trying to lay the burden on us. But, what do you say, when your scenario does not have a strategy for liberation, does it not have a strategy for PPC? It is so old and so simple: Deregulation of the market, sale and limitation of the rights of work. However, Greece is in the recovery phase that it is in, because it has come out of the memorandum that you have put it down, it needs productive reconstruction and it needs a national pillar of energy. So you have to answer sometime. You need to get tired, bring in another strategy, not the one you think, the sale of PPC. It's a dangerous depreciation plan. Furthermore, for the introduction of RES and climate neutrality we need networks and we also need strategy in the networks. Without public participation in networks and gas and electricity, we will not achieve climate neutrality. And gasification is just a transition, not for electricity generation, for heating more. Be careful, in '30s, the involvement of gasification in the electricity mix must be reduced, but you are interrupting the access of citizens and businesses to gas by this bill. In other words, you are delaying gas projects, increasing energy poverty and reducing the competitiveness of Greek businesses. And you find a black sheep, the workers, you create a social automation, and you say: 'We insult the workers, especially the young, and tell them to stay at 650 euros'. Is that the development you're evangelizing? But you're saying we have growth. Did you and the young people mess with them? The new scientists in the country? Individual contracts for young scientists? On the other hand, Golden Boys and Limos? And you come here to talk to us about the employee invoice, which is part of the collective agreement? I will propose an agreement to you: take the political initiative, if you have the guts, to have all the workers collectively and to discuss PPC's wages as well. Do you have the guts? No, because you're just doing a theater. You don't care about workers, social automation you want to create. And you want to have us vote on a collective agreement with an article when we applied for unconstitutionality on the issue of the abolition of the collective agreement? Indeed, too much was done in the previous period for PPC. I, too, remind the Movement of Change that it was Mr.Manatis' law, the "little" PPC, the sale of hydroelectric power, as well as the damage of about 250 million in '13, the work of the Change Movement and PASOK was, of course, your own business. Both the NOMEs and privatisation and the 60% increase and the increase in loans of 5.5 billion. No plan for renewable energy sources. We did too much to PPC. We would like to do much more, so we are asking you for a strategic plan. But, Mr Hatzidakis, not to say a single word about the strategic issue of the gas networks, that proves to us that you have a very big political problem. And what did you do? You came to tell me to lie. So I will testify one more to what Mrs Ahtsioglou and Mr Janakopoulos said. It is a lie, Mr President, and I quote in the Minutes of the House, that RAE's recruitment procedures had nothing to do with what Mr Hatzidakis is doing today in PPC. What I have colored, Mr Hatzidakis, is the different things that RAE has and you see them - they are more than half the text - that you hide them to say they are now PPC. Why did RAE say? That he will make a contest on the basis of the rules of internal operation, which you and you have hidden from the House. Secondly, that it has criteria for classification, supporting documents and ratings which you do not make public. Also, that candidates can object to the ADP, says RAE. PPC doesn't have that. So all these lies, I'm filing them so people can figure out where we are.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u607	And close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u608	I shall conclude, Mr President. I, Mr. Hatzidakis, insist. I want an answer today who's the elephant in the room. Will you tell us what you will answer to the institutions in January? Are you going to sell hydroelectrics? What is the plan that your institutions are asking you to testify, why have you not filed a cure for those who testify against our country? I would also like to make a statement, which I said at the end of my speech. Mr President, I have to say something. The privatisation plan for the networks is detrimental to the national interest, and we state that we will try to suspend the privatisation process, overthrow and cancel the privatisation process in the networks. Because it cannot finally be defeated in our homeland every day. Finally, Mr President, as far as the articles are concerned, one....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u609	Now no more overrun of time. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u610	About the articles...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u611	You're closed, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u612	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u613	They were said, said again. You spoke twenty and a half minutes, all the others from fifteen, fourteen...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u614	You'll understand how important it is. You're wasting time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u615	I mean, protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u616	Well, I'll say...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u617	Close, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u618	Here, please note that we want an answer to know what we are going to vote on. It's completely legal. In Article 14 we have serious concerns, because the LAGs, combined with the securitisation, may lead to a break in social services. We're waiting for an answer. In Article 20, adding Mr Spankis' amendment may raise a question, while we were in favour of voting on it. We need an explanation. I think it's about the partial introduction of an EIA owner into a contest. Why did you add it there, Mr. Hatzidakis, and that raises a matter for us. We would be in favour of Article 20. In Article 21 we have waited for a statement on your part, because you have the political responsibility for how to ensure that large RES projects are entered into competitive prices and do not bear our country at high energy costs. I haven't got the answer, you know, and I've been putting it in a good way for too many days. At 22 we are concerned about the fact that everything goes to a ministerial decision. In 23 - we have said so many times - there has been nothing about biogas in livestock waste, and our country needs it too. We don't say it by any idea of it. It's elements of a circular economy. In your 25, we raised an issue that you might be charging the RES account. In 26 there are too many legislators. We're in favour, but he needs attention, because they went back into law-making a little while ago. There is one issue in the 27th, because you do not have the exception given to the TEN to provide us with electricity infrastructure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm too fast, Mr. President. In 28 we wonder why you said nothing about the European Investment Bank in the ELECTRA programme. Why only energy agencies? And I am going very quickly to say that we would like in 46 and 47 to clarify what these provisions have been photographed, but in any case, the amendments to the Urban Plan and I am closing. It is particularly negative for the arbitrary amendment that you are giving individuals the identity of buildings in return for the expense of citizens, at costs and that the normalisation of the arbitrary without it being clear whether demolitions will ever occur and whether this chapter will be closed. As far as SYSTEMs are concerned, because it came today, Mr Hatzidakis, and I think you are interested in the boards of electronic spatial planning, increasing the number of members, are not more flexible. You take out the representatives of the Regional Association of Municipalities, take out the representatives of the Association of Warships. So are you taking out the representation of the institutional body of planning and, indeed, the Minister of Spatial Planning? What exactly are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u619	Now, that's what was said, analyzed...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u620	Please, Mr. President. But it's an amendment that came today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u621	No more. The rapporteur of the New Democracy has the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u622	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u623	No, no. I've wasted time, I've given you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u624	It's for the parliamentary amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u625	The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u626	Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u627	Please don't ask me. The rapporteur for the New Democracy has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Loading.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u628	I am talking about the amendments. Mr. Minister wants. He has to make a correction. I'll tell him about the law school.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u629	Excuse me, excuse me. Now it's over. You should have said it earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u630	Please, Mr. President. For farmers, let's close it down. Mr President, it is a parliamentary amendment, to explain to the Minister, that he knows. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u631	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u632	In conjunction with Article 24, this amendment, Amendment No 97 with a special 10, can lead to an amendment of the farmer's profession by a number of experts who will use self-sufficiency - take care of this little - and the abolition of high productivity in order to develop outside the framework the competitive RES units that may exceed the 500KW that do not respond to how ELAF pays, at what price we will enter. It's literally without a plan. We are not like Mr. Georgiadis to tell him "Go to Mr. Hatzidakis to get the bill". We need to know how that responds. Because it is not the point of hitting farmers on the back. You need to solve this. It also amends the rural and competitive framework of the RES. He wants attention, we tell you. We're hitting a hammer, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u633	All right, you're done, Mr. Famele.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u634	It is also a mistake that the draw for architectural councils came out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u635	Look, it's contempt for your other colleagues too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u636	I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u637	Good, thank you very much. Mr Loading, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u638	Thank you very much, Mr President. I, from the Stepma, would like to congratulate both the Minister and the Secretary-General and their staff, who also during the committees - all four meetings - are here all day long and support the bill. Many congratulations, therefore, to all staff, the Minister and the State Secretarys. We have heard many insults, many lies, incredibly false. The insults of Mr.Janakopoulou, who described the Prime Minister as a political deceit, do not honor either your own party or your history. Now we're going to the field of ideas. We've heard incredible things. I think we're living in a virtual reality. There is no unspeakable neoliberalism, unspeakable neoliberalism, nor mild. There is neoliberalism and it has never been implemented in Greece. We must make that understandable. Unfortunately, however, for you, ladies and gentlemen, in Greece for many years, so many reforms have not been implemented and you are the main responsible for this whole situation and for the whole culture you have been carrying out. Now we're going to this bill. Unlike you and your lame arguments, our government proves that it is the political power of acts and also of realistic policy. We are doing, therefore, the liberalisation of the energy market. We are doing an act of strengthening PPC towards its competitors. We also heard 'victims' for hunger wages, for gala conditions, for appointments of the days and for various 'blue children'. They are inappropriate and are expressed by you, namely those who think about the terms of the past, those who will return to us in the past with your own practices. In addition, for the PCC, we are doing an effective militarisation. The draft law sets out the framework not the conditions for private investment, which will result from a healthy and functional process of privatization. Once again, you are in danger. The whole risk is, of course, undermining the prospects for a privatization effectively in the public interest. For renewables, we act with the bill the first policy measures of the New Democracy for RES. I have an answer to Mr. Symblene from this Step. I am pleased that it is in favour of renewable energy sources. That's what he said. So welcome him to our own policy. I, too, have placed myself in the protagonism on this issue. The solution for all this is the modification of the Special Spatial Plan for RES and for the National Plan, which is the subject of the Ministry's staff. We, therefore, will be presenting ourselves with all the Members of the law. Of course, I didn't hear Mr. Armalene talking about what he's done over the last four years. He has to tell us when he went to his minister, what he said and what he said. But then she was deaf, and she didn't answer for all of this. Finally, this bill in general is a bill that gives solutions, solves problems and opens opportunities. It does not reproduce policies of the past but rather goes away from them. The bill, therefore, highlights the essence of our own political governance and the alarming difference with opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u639	We will close the meeting with Mr Thomas' Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u640	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to answer some of the questions raised by the opposition. Regarding Article 14 for the guarantees of legal persons, it is an article that ensures that the municipal bodies of PPC are avoided from paying. It creates a framework in which municipalities, who are responsible for operators and administrations, guarantee that these accounts will be paid to PPC. It is a framework that will bring order, as in all things, to all PPC customers, who have to pay, as you have asked. With regard to Rule 20 and the amendment which you requested from Mr Spanakis, this amendment responds to an application from the ELETTAEN. It provides that where there is a project, part of the project is by auction and the second part of the project can be made without a specific price, i.e. at the market price, whatever it is, even less than the tender price. With regard to the question of Article 21 and 250 MW, this is an opportunity for large projects from the DG Competition Guidelines. What's she predicting? It provides that a work which does not enter a tendering procedure may request directly from the Directorate-General for Competition a price regulation. This price, if it passes through the control of the Greek authorities and the control of the Directorate-General for Competition, will be double-approved and will not be able to be higher than market prices or auctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u641	Our control is inside?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u642	It's our control, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u643	It's not in this article. It's just the Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u644	It goes through our own control and goes to the Commission, which, as you know, is...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u645	Take a look at this. That is what I have asked, that there should be national intervention for price, not just the Commission. So, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u646	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u647	Thanks for the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u648	In Article 22 - I will clarify it more specifically - the priorities will be defined by a ministerial decision. There are a number of priorities which need to be put before this law is passed. They are about the priority for farmers, the priority for biogas. There is therefore a set of priorities that will be re-drafted if this bill is passed. That is why the authorization for this prioritization has been made. With regard to biogas, you referred to Article 23 on biogas for farmers. As I said in my introductory statement, this article is about production, waste, but there will be further bills, legislation on renewable energy sources and biogas issues will be regulated there for farmers. On the subject of Article 25, there is an annual statement on farmers and the issue of PV smugglers is also regulated, which we have heard in committee. In Article 27 on electromobility, it puts the definitions, the framework for electromobility. It stipulates that this framework will be competitive. It changes the previous framework, which was based on the DEDN. It creates a competitive framework. From there, the rest of the framework for electricity will be built, which we will be presenting in legislation next year. In Article 28 you are talking about the programme 'ELEKTRA'. The European Investment Bank's operations will continue within the framework of ELECTRA. The law does not define the financial instrument - neither will the previous law - nor the European Investment Bank will finance it. What changes legislation is that it allows for the renewal of public buildings via ESCOS and not only by means of a public contract, as was previously the case. The European Investment Bank's interventions will continue to be possible. On the amendment to the farmers' amendment to 75%, I think there is a misunderstanding. This amendment concerns self-producers, small farmers who have an establishment next to consumption. Right now, we're talking 15 megawatts. They're very small works, ten megawatts. Because there is seasonality in agricultural production. What happens is when they do not use the energy normally, when there is production, when there are waterfalls, usually in the summer they water, use all the production for this job. So when they do not use the energy that these very small photovoltaics produce next to production, the law now allows them to sell only 20% of this energy they have on an annual basis. And now, this 20% will be 75%. It is justified by seasonality. They are small photovoltaics, which are next to consumption. It is only for seasonality for self-producers alone. I think I covered all the questions you put. If it's one more thing, we'll come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u649	We will not come back now, Minister. We're done. The time is three more than. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy: 'Security of the energy market, modernisation of PPC, privatisation of PPC and support for RES' is finalised. A request has been made for a roll-call vote on Articles 3, 4, 9, 16, 17, 24, 42 and 44 of the draft law by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. A request has also been made for a roll-call vote in principle, as well as for Articles 3 and 24 of the draft law, by Members of the JRC Parliamentary Group. So the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments to the bill will be taken today, immediately after the debate on topical and urgent questions is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 3 October 2019, Friday 4 October 2019, Monday 7 October 2019 and Tuesday 8 October 2019 (morning) and Thursday 10 October 2019 have been distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u650	The minutes of Thursday 3 October 2019, Friday 4 October 2019, Monday 7 October 2019 and Tuesday 8 October 2019 (morning) and Thursday 10 October 2019 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-11-27-S1-commons.u651	(b) a vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Security of the Ministry of Energy, Modernisation of PPC, privatisation of PPC and support for RES’ and 2) only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Measure in civil and commercial matters - Further harmonisation of Greek legislation with the provisions of Directive 2008/52/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008’.
