ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 17-10-2019, the minutes of its PRACULAR Sessions of Thursday 17 October 2019 were confirmed by the Bureau in its adoption of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the exchange of financial communications of an agreement on the extension of the Memorandum of Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on import restrictions to categories of archaeological and Byzantine ecclesiastical material up to the 15th century C.E. of the Hellenic Republic’]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take note of the fact that the Committee on Revision of the Constitution, for which the plenary has set a deadline for submitting its report on 22 October 2019, following a unanimous decision, by letter to the President of Parliament, calls for an extension of the deadline for its operation until 11 November 2019. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u2	The House unanimously agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS First let me tell the House on Monday, 21 October 2019. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 100/15-10-2019 by the Deputy Prime Minister of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the subject: 3113.11/40369/7-6-2018 Ministerial Decision to increase port charges on ships operated by Igoumenitsa - Corfu and Igoumenitsa - Lefkimi.’ 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 109/15-10-2019 by MP MEP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Studies of students and students". 3. The 112/15-10-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of Mera25 Mr.Georgiou Logiades to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Ascendance due to a lack of teachers in Kash High and High School". Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing today's topical and urgent question package. I would like to inform you that the seventh question under number 110/15-10-2019 of the Second Cycle of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine will not be discussed with the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Publication of Iranian detainee, mother of a minor child", due to the obstruction of Minister Chrysochoidis, and for which there is a letter from the Secretary of Government, Mr. Koutnajis. Mr Kegeroglou's two questions will be preceded - one is to Mr Kefaloniannis, the other is to the Secretary of State for Health - and then we have been asked by my colleague Mr Thraniotis, who has to depart, in order to be at the airport in good time, to precede the other colleagues. His question is to the same Undersecretary, Mr. Kontozamani. You will allow me to do this service to him. So we begin with the fifth under the number 94/14-10-2019 topical question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kosos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Priority to road safety and the creation of a Road Safety Observatory of Crete". The Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr. Ioannis Kefaloyannis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. It is well known that Greece has one of the first positions in the European Union on the fatal accidents and, of course, the serious injuries resulting in loss of life in many cases and also permanent inability. At the same time, we should see that the rule is not general, that is, Greece has first in regard to the fatal accidents caused by motorcycles. It is a statistic that the European Union has done and I shall present the relevant data. There are other notable elements, such as in Crete, for example, from a survey carried out by the newspaper “New KRITI” that most accidents occur on Saturday. If we analyse further, we will see that the general rule has specific parameters that enable you, within a road safety promotion plan, to make specific decisions. So because we should at last see the people who work research and study the issues of driving, the people who produce politics, the family, the school, the economic and social bodies at the same table and work together a policy, but above all have the data for this purpose, I would say that the issue of road safety needs to be prioritized and of course to see how we coordinate ourselves with single centres. There is therefore a proposal for Crete, which was made by the Hellenic Mediterranean University of Crete at the time, and which was discussed at a large meeting held last Saturday in Heraklion on the initiative of the Regional Education Department. This proposal concerns the creation of the Road Safety Observatory in Crete. The Road Safety Observatory, supported by the ELMEPA Road Safety Laboratory - we learned to call it the new university - and of course with the synergy of all actors, can also help locally, locally and locally, locally and education and the Ministry and the relevant ministries - because we have the responsibility with the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Ministry of Education - so that they can implement policies that are correct and sound. But to see the priorities too, because obviously they cannot be done. The main issue, of course, is education and traffic education, both in schools and in adults.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Kegeroglu, in your dentistry the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u6	Of course, Mr President. The question, however, is mainly today if we will support the request for the creation of the Road Safety Observatory in Crete. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, there is no doubt that the issue of road accidents is indeed one of the major issues, not only our Ministry, but also the issues that the government needs to deal with. Informally, for the years 2011-2020 the Ministry, in collaboration with the National Technical University, has made a strategic plan for road safety, which concerns actions and improvement of indicators. Of course, you know very well that we cannot just stick to a strategic plan, but we must also take concrete action. However, I would also like to inform you that at the moment there is a cooperation for the preparation of a new strategic plan for 2021 to 2030. And as you may well know, the European objective set for the Member States is to reduce accidents by 50% both fatal and accidents which cause serious injuries. Of course, right now, our country, in cooperation with the competent committees of the European Union, is now preparing the National Strategic Plan for the years 2021 and 2030. A key tool for achieving the European objective is to monitor and adopt the key road safety-related performance indicators. In this context, therefore, you realise that, as a Greek Government, we also intend at regional and national level to cooperate with any body or agency in order to monitor the performances of the objectives to be set in the National Strategic Plan. As far as this institution, to which you refer, is in my knowledge, even though a formal request has not been made to the Ministry. I have even met the representatives of this institution and I have been informed. We prefer to be in cooperation with them in order to see how we can proceed with the actions you are talking about. I shall refer also to various issues relating to Crete and the issue of road safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House operates, thirty-four students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 2nd Cesarean Municipal School. The kids have arrived in the House. [[Applause from all sides]] Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we cannot simply synchronise our actions with the Community framework. The issue of accidents and accidents is urgent. So we should make use of the possibilities that we have as a country and beyond the ESDP. It is good that after 2021 there will be a new road safety framework that will start in 2023, because you know that the first two years are preparation. And until then what? Furthermore, because the issues that are to be addressed with the policies to be implemented with regard to infrastructure, the means of transport and the human factor should have the elements and data that an observer can give, in order to implement correct policies, the observatory and the analysis are ahead of it. The Observatory should, of course, have been yesterday. This information should be made available to those who decide the other day. Emergency. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this sense it is good that you have said that you will be in cooperation and that you are being made available for cooperation, but the observatory will have to find a way to work immediately so that it can also contribute to the formulation of the framework and policies that you propose and intend to work out for 2021-2030 and, of course, to address specific factors immediately. I told you two examples, one for motorcycles and one for Saturdays - I will also present an article to you. That means, if I interpret it correctly - scientists will tell us - that in terms of motorcycles, in addition to other infrastructure problems, car driver behaviour, etc., that drivers must wear helmets. Saturday probably means Friday exits and alcohol use or other factors. I'm saying that as a possibility. I can't be sure, but I'm assessing the evidence. A specific body, a specific institution, an institution, such as the university laboratory and the observatory - if it is set up - will enable us, if we have a high frequency of accidents and accidents on a particular section of a road axis, whatever it is, to deal with this, first and foremost. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is therefore the point of intervention that can be made to improve road safety. Instead of having, for example, one lane per direction and one LEA, why not consider the possibility of two plus one, as previously proposed for Crete in particular and with the safety that this provides? So I would like you to take an initiative, and I will support all my colleagues. Mr. Thrafaniotis and other MPs were last Saturday at the meeting held in Heraklion. Take the initiative to create the Observatory so that it will be of great help to the issue of planning and addressing specific problems immediately. The university, the region, possibly the Regional Association of Municipalities and the other bodies - and private bodies - can contribute. The insurance companies also show particular interest, beyond their social sensitivity, and because of their own financial costs. So there are conditions for this to happen. Take the initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u11	Hang up, please. We have more questions. We don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. To move on to the issue of the Road Safety Observatory in Crete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u13	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u14	Mr Colleague, I will repeat something I have said in my prototype. At the moment there is typically no gap, since there is the strategic plan for 2011 and 2020. It is good that there is this plan and it is also good that in the coming years, 2021 to 2030, the respective National Strategic Plan on Road Safety is currently being drawn up. As I said before, however, no national plan can be left to theory, and there must be coordination. What we have seen is that, unfortunately, over the last five years on road safety - at least on the basis of what we see at the Ministry - there has been no coordination, no attempt to sit down on the road safety issue and to see in practice how we can implement the objectives set by the national strategic plans. I think you are right with regard to your analysis of the example of the motorcycle and the fact that our country, unfortunately, is currently in the European Union's first place in fatal accidents. Unfortunately, drivers do not wear a helmet is one of the main causes associated with the fatal accidents in motorcycles. I would remind you that, as a major symbolic move, one of the first topics the government has dealt with is the announcement of a reduction in VAT on the helmet, precisely to pass on the message that, as a government on this issue, we are giving the signal that we should move on to the helmets market, to wear a helmet and, in general, to have a conscience that is consistent with the objectives of the National Strategic Plan. You know, too, that no matter how much infrastructure we build, no matter how much interventions on roads, if we do not address the issue of the conscience of driving behaviour, we will, unfortunately, continue to mourn victims on the streets. I'll tell you how another feature. Perhaps a large proportion, which is close to 40%, of the fatal accidents on the northern road, occur on the points which are closed highway and not where the separator does not exist. What does that mean? The increased speed, possibly increased consumption of alcohol beyond the limits and in general the non-use of a belt or helmet is one of the main causes. I therefore agree that this should not be discussed theoretically, that this should be done in a coordinated manner. And I told you before, because I appreciate the work that this Institute does at the Mediterranean University, that it is our intention to engage in whatever procedures they are doing. When we're ready, we'll tell you concrete actions. And you can be certain that this institute will be within the institutions that will be included in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. The next seven questions are addressed to the Ministry of Health. The Deputy Minister, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, will answer. The first question will be discussed under No 428/28-8-2019, the question of the cycle of petitions and questions by the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Great problems and serious dangers from the lack of personal payments for Ambulance/Rescue in the EKA". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. The problem of the lack of ambulance crews has been identified and many times expressed. Of course, this is becoming even more acute when we talk about the islands, which have suffered a great burden from the refugee - immigration with the same or less potential. We should say that some recruitment procedures for permanent and subsidiary staff have been under way lately. In particular, I would like to mention the 'PHILOS' programme through EGE, for the recruitment of a hundred and four crews, for which only the provisional results were issued when the question was formulated. It is the 5C notice of the AAC for the recruitment of thirty-seven crews. It's the recruitment process with a contract of private law, a hundred rescuers, of whom only had twenty-five advances. As the problem is exacerbated, I would like the Minister to inform us today and to answer exactly what has happened with each notice and every recruitment process. He also tells us whether a new plan has been drawn up for the recruitment of permanent staff for the crew of ambulances, rescuers in the EAW - for 2019, of course, and next year - for the islands as well as for the country's EAW as a whole. We would also like to know how this whole process of upgrading the efficiency of the EKRD is going to go ahead in the next few years. Because, as we can see, there are too many incidents from Almyros to the previous day, which could have been dealt with otherwise. We do not make the prophets, but there are gaps that need to be addressed. And the oligories, which have been there not to happen again, should not be observed. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, for us the EMCDDA is a strategic lever for the health system, which we want to reform. After all, we have stressed, both from the outset and recently with the legislative initiative that we have taken to unify the National Centre for Emergency Aid with the National Centre for Health Enterprises, that the EAW is the pillar of urgent pre-medical care. And in this context, we are planning further development of the EMCDDA and its interconnection with the emergency departments in the hospitals of the country. Our intention is to support all levels - and above all operational - and moving in this direction we give particular weight to the recruitment of permanent staff, because it is certainly with subsidiary staff that only temporarily meets the needs. And our burden, as I say, is given to the recruitment of the crew of ambulances, rescuers and the rational distribution of personnel, so as to ensure the best possible functioning of the EAW. And of course, we are drawing up an operational plan for the development of the National Direct Aid Centre. With regard to specifically your question and the specific notices, I would like to stress the following: With regard to the "PHILOS II" programme by the EGE of four people for ambulance crews, rescuers throughout the country, we believe that recruitment will have been completed through the program in 2019 for all operational units of ESAB. These workers will sign a fixed-term employment contract and will be employed for eighteen months with an additional six months. With regard to the planned recruitment procedure under contract for ambulance crews from the seventy-five remaining vacant posts, the answer, of course, is self-evident and, of course, affirmative, because as you know, these gaps were created because there were only twenty-five people who were interested in the list of health regions. We are at the moment in cooperation with the administration of the EMCDDA, so that we can launch a new invitation to subsidiary staff, and we believe that this will fill the gap of these seventy-five seats. With regard to the years 2019 and 2020 for the recruitment planning of permanent staff, I would like to say that the final results of the 5K notice on the recruitment of thirty-seven ambulance crews have been issued by the AACC and are expected to be completed. Also, by Act of the Ministerial Council, the recruitment of fifty persons from different branches and specialties for the EAW has been approved. We run this process very quickly and we hope it will be implemented in 2019. At the same time, the Minister for Health has still adopted a hundred IC posts for ambulance crews in various areas of the EMCDDA, of which twenty-five have been covered, as I said before, and the seventy-five gaps have been left. The 2020 recruitment plan is under way, because at the moment we are well aware of the situation that we have received, with the shortcomings not only in the EAW, but also in the health system in general, and of course we are trying to reflect the current situation and to make a rational distribution of staff for 2020. Now, as far as the voids of crew drivers are concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u19	You can continue in your dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u20	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u21	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u22	You sloppy cut the minister off, and he might have had something important to announce to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u23	He'll tell you in his denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u24	In any case, I think there has been a significant delay, perhaps due to the changes made at government level and, of course, to the changes made to the draft law on the integration of the two institutions. We, Minister, have been positive in unifying the two institutions - you know that very well - in discussing the draft legislation, but we have pointed out that we also need a new coordination system so that the Single EAEC can perform its role. Because I must say that also on previous government, with the gaps that existed, unfortunately, the political leadership had not moved on to enable the EKRD to function as it should have been, they were dealing with others. The EMCDDA was working with its human potential, self-sacrificingly and with the best possible coordination. And I believe that it will do the same in the next period, but we must enable this coordination and effectiveness to be achieved. The first condition is to have staff. So I would say that the slackness with which the Ministry of Health seems to be facing the issue of the staffing of the EMCDDA must be brought to an end. We must also tackle the question of coordination at last. I was not at all satisfied with the statements made by the EKA or the Ministry - I do not remember the announcement - in the case of Laurent Mahairica's death, when the answer said: 'Possibly or certainly he could not be saved even there was the ambulance'. That's not an answer, because the ministry had to answer because the ambulance arrived there after three hours. That's what he had to answer. Did he have to reach forty-five minutes, according to distances and design? Did he have to reach half an hour? That's the problem, not that man would die anyway. This was therefore beyond any logic of scientific, ethical and political approach. This is a political approach. I say, however, as an example, that if he had all the shifts, the crew there in the health center - I don't know what was - and he went and didn't have to go from Lamia or from Larissa - I don't know where he went from - would be on time. So I say that the condition of crews and good coordination is a prerequisite for the EAW to function properly. We supported unification, as I said, but that is not enough. This is where they need preconditions. We start with the staff and, of course, the ambulances. We also need a plan - which I believe you have - to obtain and replace the required number of ambulances, now in order to have a good efficiency of the EAW.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u25	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, we are not dealing with the issues of the EMCDDA in general or with the health system and the problems it is facing. To complete my answer to the previous question which I was referring to, I would say that there are surely gaps in ambulance crew drivers in health centres, but you are well aware that crews are the responsibility of the health regions and, of course, several health regions have started by recruiting subsidiary staff to fill the gaps that exist. We are seeking to have a plan to coordinate the movement of ambulances from the health centres with the ambulances of the EMCDDA, so as to better cover emergency situations. As far as the case to which you referred is concerned, I do not think that the ambulance has made three hours to get there, but it is not time for me to give you the exact time. We recognise, as I have said, that there are problems which we have received and I think that in a short time we have taken all the necessary steps to launch both recruitments - because it is not just a matter of human resources - and also of the operational design of the National Direct Aid Centre. I told you that our first message in the first bill was the merger of the National Direct Help Center with the EMCDDA. You have also asked what is the planning for the definitive transfer of the relevant health centers to the EKA, so that the long-term problems are not observed. Here there are administrative and settlement issues, because in the vast majority of health centres employees are drivers and not ambulance crews. Of course, we are dealing with this and we are trying to find the best way, so that ambulances from health centres operate in accordance with the existing provisions of the EAW and the existing legislation and carry out the necessary recruitments. It is therefore understood that there is knowledge of the situation. There is a plan and a political will, so that we can proceed responsibly with all the actions required - not only for recruitment - in order to achieve the full coverage of the entire territory with the necessary staff and the better functioning of the EAW. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 6th Municipal School of Moschos. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification to Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u29	Because you're a beginner, Mr. Secretary, I'll give you the floor to give the explanation!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u30	You stole me some time ago!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u31	I didn't steal your time. You had ten seconds more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u32	The call to the EKA was made at 4.27' and the ambulance arrived at the point on 5.10' and 6.18'' at Volos Hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u33	It was not what Mr Kegeroglu said, but the answer was not correct.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u34	I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u35	To tell Mr. Contozamanis, he's checked it out. We're moving on, as I said. I had requested permission from Mrs. Lykoulis. We continue with the debate of the sixth under number 104/15-10-2019 on a topical question from the MP Lassithi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Manolis Thraniotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Providing dental care services from the EEAS to children from private dentists". Mr. Thraniotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President, for the facilitation, as well as the colleague who gave me her position. Minister, a consistent demand from dentistry - as well as medicine in general - is to emphasise prevention. Especially for dentistry is the fact that after many years the dentist in our country was at the centre of state attention in the four-year period 2015-2019. This was the purpose of the Ministry of Health, the good cooperation with the Dental Federation and the contribution of the dentists of the Parliament. Thus, a number of years have been completed and some have been resolved, such as the continuing training of dentists with Law 4486/2017, but others are in the process of processing, such as the code and the last, which is the subject of our question, the initiative to provide preventive dental care for the ages of six to twelve. Developments had been initiated, but the intervention of the elections to the Board of Directors. the Greek Dental Federation and the Europeans and the national elections, so that this initiative could not be implemented. I would like to ask, Minister, if there is any intention - for 2019, it is a bit difficult - to incorporate this programme on prevention for primary school children, which is a sufficient number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u37	Mr Papoutsis, a prerequisite for any action to be taken is the existence of appropriate resources and regulations. In simple terms, the money should be available to cover expenditure. It is not only enough to legislate on some actions. By Law 4486/2017, in fact, the previous government legislated to provide primary dental care for the ages of six to twelve. However, it is necessary, according to the law, to adopt a ministerial decision on the procurement procedure and other details setting the amount of compensation, for example, time and way of control, as well as any other details necessary for the implementation of the law. Unfortunately, from March 2019 to July of the same year there was no such decision. In addition, almost one month before the national elections of July 7, the EEAS Board of Directors transferred 3⁄4 of the estimated expenditure to another code, with the result that there is no money. So we were invited to manage almost anything. So, as far as your question is concerned, I have to tell you that, of course, 2019 is coming to the end and the budgets are already set and we are considering what is going to happen in 2020. I would like to stress at this point that we have already stressed that we attach great importance to preventive medicine and to actions such as dental care and oral health, which are preventive medicine actions, with a specific plan that we are developing and I believe that we will at least be able to cover these sensitive ages, since the financial situation allows us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u38	Here, Mr Colleague, Mr Thraniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr Minister, we must stress that the commitment to the EEA of this amount, amounting to EUR 40,093.280, was in the budget. The elections, as I said, took place in the federation, which called for an extension, because it was also a pre-election period, so that it could give an answer. My second point is that, in fact, part of this money, of the EUR 40 million committed to the budget, was allocated to alleviate the costs of the examination centres. Apart from that, Mr President, I would like to stress that, by reading in the distribution of the number of children, it is addressed to a number of seven hundred eighty-three thousand, ninety-four children concerned with preventive dental examinations. If one notices ages, one can draw further conclusions, such as having a reduction in the number of children from a hundred and fifteen thousand in 2007 to ninety - seven thousand sixty - three in 2013. In other words, we have a reduction in the young population and children. Therefore, the provision of preventive dentistry to children will still be an incentive to deal with hypogenicity. Apart from that, however, I think that we should not just see if the budgetary conditions allow it. After all, we expect growth of 4% and revenue in the budget, so that this budget gap can be created, so that this initiative can be implemented. I would like to say that this concerns children and their oral health, which, as you well know, as a doctor, the mouth is the mirror of human body health. There are too many diseases in the mouth, so an emphasis on prevention will be able to prevent diseases that can occur in the body. In this sense, therefore, I think that we should not only be talking about 2020, but also about establishing and legislating for the provision of dental care to primary school children, but also about taking care, so that, in addition to providing dental care provided by the public health system, we can also allow the free professions so that dental patients can benefit from state care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u40	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. I don't have anything to add. I think the honourable Member agrees with what I have said. I would like to emphasise once again that the prevention and promotion of health, of course, are pillars of the sustainability and good functioning of a health and well-being system for the population. We have said that we give priority to prevention, mainly through schools and regarding dental care, in oral health actions. You will soon see our plan for public health and prevention, which will include what you are referring to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u42	Now we're coming to normality! To serve Mr Thraniotis, whose question was seventh in number, with the consent of the colleagues, we gave him the floor. The show wasn't that. Now, then, the second question under number 88/11-10-2019 will be discussed in the first cycle of the MEP Laurel of the Change Movement Mr.Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Mobile primary health care units in Thessaly". Here you go, Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, Minister, I think it is one of the moments when Parliament confirms the strength and power of the current questions. And at least that, institutionally, Mr President, when we are given the opportunity, I think we should say that. I say this today, Minister, because after the timely question, which was tabled on 1 October, the Governor of the 5th Ministry of Foreign Affairs, was folded down, obviously by command from your competent services - and instead of his statement that mobile units would be unused, he finally decided the two of the four mobile units which provided primary care services to the inhabitants of mountainous and remote regions of Thessaly to move them back. Unfortunately, however, this issue has been dealt with with with a lightness - once again - which does not fit both the inhabitants of the region and the competent departments of a very critical ministry, your Ministry. So there was a special regime which you did not even grant to a mobile unit, one of which has breast-examination equipment, and the other has preventive microbiological examinations, we do not yet know the unauthorised unit that performs the microbiological tests with which it is certified, with which technical competence and with which permission it is released, because this was denounced by the commander of the 5th HR. This is the one aspect of the thing, the simplest. The second aspect, Minister, is that, unfortunately, the two of the four units are currently on a plot, still unworthy, despite the fact that they were a very costly process of buying and using them, as far as I am aware, through an ESDP programme. So we ask you to tell us today: Have you issued the relevant permit, technical adequacy, safety, the certification by which the unit is moving mainly concerning microbiological tests, but also the preventive tests of the breast? And, secondly, what happens with the other two movable units of the four that are on one plot even today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u44	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Plenipotentiary, citizens' access to the mountainous and remote areas of Thessaly in primary health care through mobile units has never been interrupted. Mobile units are indeed part of primary health care and we need to ensure the smooth and safe operation of these units. You may know better than me that the RU had four mobile units, both are indeed decommissioned and none of the four are licensed. So there is a problem, which we have to deal with. This is where the intervention of the Health Region is located, not to stop the programme, but to find a solution to the licensing section. In fact, the Health Region has strengthened the two mobile units that are circulating with one general doctor in each and we are in a process to allow all mobile units to be licensed. Finally, it is worth tabling, Mr President, the programme of the mobile mammography unit, as drawn up by the 5th Health Area. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u46	Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u47	Minister, unfortunately you have confirmed in the second part of your reply that the timely question was tabled and finally had its result. When you say that the provision of primary care was never interrupted through mobile units and then you say that there was a problem with licensing, you understand - and I say it very respectfully on your face - that you are contradicting, because the statement of our State Secretary was not a wave of our own imagination, but it was a published statement, which you have seen and which the responsible department of your Ministry obviously faced and you did well. This is your role. Nevertheless, today you come to Parliament and tell us that you have not solved this matter, that is, at the end of 2019, a bureaucratic issue between the Commander of the Ministry of Health and the central services of the Ministry of Health cannot be solved. Today you're telling us something else. You're telling us that the two units are really decommissioned. So you accept that the two units are decommissioned, but you tell us something further, that is, that they are empty and all four are. When, in fact, you tell us that the four mobile units are not licensed, and already the Deputy Minister has made the statement that there are no technical specifications and certifications available, I would like to ask you something. It is a very sensitive issue of certification and I do not want to go into detail and abuse time, but I will say that when we have breast prevention, for example, we have imaging work, when we have microbiological work - doctors know them better than me, I am not a doctor - that means we have to have all the technical specifications and we have to have all the certifications. So I ask you, on the occasion of my dentistry - and today it appears to be a second issue, but next to my question - whether these permits to all four - which you are telling us today - are related to the certification and safety of the services they provide. This, Minister, please, I would like to hear about it in your dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u48	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that the statement by the Commander of the Health Region was about finding out the problem. You also said that the two mobile units are decommissioned. We didn't say anything opposite. You told us they were somewhere. There is no doubt about that. This problem was ahead of us. We have seen it and we are trying to resolve it. First of all, I imagine that it concerns the authorisation of these mobile units to move in these areas and carry out the scheduled tests. As far as certification is concerned, let me say that all machines have the necessary certifications and authorisations for suitability and operation and, of course, operate with international standards. So I do not think there is a point in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u50	The third question under number 108/15-10-2019 will be discussed in the third round of the Piraeus II Group of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Releases of workers in cleanliness at the General Hospital of Nice". Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. The truth is that in recent years the question of flexible working relationships and especially in public hospitals has been a 'gangrain', which is why there have been so many frequent movements of workers. However, I will focus on the General Hospital of Nice. The truth is that they were proclaimed through ASP jobs with individual private-law contracts for two years for the needs of cleanliness. The largest number was hired than the one who worked with contractors. However, twenty left outside. They are pre-service workers from eight months to three years in a contracting company, which by May 2019 had undertaken the cleanliness of the hospital. They therefore have experience and knowledge of the space. The redundancies have gone ahead, although there have been assurances both from the administration and from the Ministry's services to the contrary. Of course, there were interventions by both the workers and the hospital administration and the 2nd Health Region and the Ministry of Health. But so far no solution has been found. Same happens in all hospitals. Dozens of workers have been on the road, because both the current government and the previous ones are implementing the European Union strategy for recycling unemployment and extending flexible working relationships. Minister, the issue of cleanliness is not a matter of two months or eight months' contracts etc. There is a need for permanent and stable work. We are also concerned about the increased intra-homosomal infections, that this may also be a consequence. That is why we ask you, in hospitals, to ensure a permanent and stable job for all workers, but in particular to withdraw the redundancies of these twenty workers at the Hospital of Nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u52	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Manolakou, allow me to make a clarification as to your question. You talked about redundancies. It's not redundancies. They're terminations of contracts. They are cleanliness workers with fixed-term contracts which have expired and, at the same time, have participated in an ADP competition with the mobilisation of their pre-services and twenty of them have, indeed, been left out of success in this tender. So you realise that we cannot interfere with this procedure that is through ASPD. That's the reality. In no case, of course, do we rejoice when someone leaves the job he has. I am telling you once again that we cannot interfere with the procedures of the IASC, as far as the moleculation of these individuals is concerned. As far as the second part of your question is concerned, I must say that the health ministry's debt is the care of hospitals, the cleanliness and the smooth functioning of the feeding, and in this direction, in relative circulars, we have identified our next actions. In the light of both the financial benefit and the safe guarding and cleansing of hospitals, we are moving towards further action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Municipal School of Beessia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u55	Minister, it's an end to contracts, because they're a few months old. However, the moleculosis that exists can change, and in a new way to strengthen the molecules of experience for these workers. And I say it because they're not begging the job. They have experience, the subject knows it as well as the hospital workplace. These can give extra molecules. Besides, the Hospital of Nice is a very large hospital. It serves not only the municipalities of Piraeus but also the islands and the province and many local districts but also poor ones. Needs are great. They need these people too. They're not only women, but they're men who can do more heavy jobs like transport. After all, I want to say to you - and I think you should know - that there was a unanimous decision on the board of the hospital calling for these twenty people to be recruited and has also been asked by the sub-commander of the hospital to be detained. Also, all decisions of the hospital union are unanimous. In this sense, there seems to be a need for these people to be recruited. With regard to flexible working relationships in these areas, such as storage, cleaning, feeding, etc., I should like to tell you that they are forms that are very dry and should not exist. Besides, insecurity, uncertainty and repayment go with the hostage. Today in public hospitals there are fifteen thousand people, i.e. about 20% of all who have flexible forms of work. These conventions are ending, there needs to be re-entry, gaps remain, many problems arise. It is no coincidence that on the 23rd of the month there is a panmatic mobilisation of workers in all public hospitals precisely for the abolition of contractors and elastic forms of work. I would therefore ask you to take a positive look at the issue of the re-introduction of the twentyths that have expired in their contract, as well as the previous ones that you have taken through APA - there is such a possibility, because they need - and also the abolition of contractive and elastic forms of work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Manolakou, no one has said that these people are begging, and in no way do we want the law to be violated with regard to labour rights. I think the government has made it clear in every direction. As far as the twenty people are concerned, I think that there will be a possibility for other notices to take part, but in any case I do not think that we can, as the Ministry of Health, bypass legal proceedings and, of course, bypassing the AACC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. It will now be discussed the first under number 102/15-10-2019 in an up-to-date question of the second question of Hania MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Paul Pavlakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Henry Dynan Hospital" and the service of the public interest". Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, with today's question, I would like to clarify your intentions. As you know, the story of Henry Dunan is a long and painful story. A few years ago the hospital - through and through the scandalous management of previous administrations, debt accumulation, competition with other private groups, such as Vegeopoulos, etc. - It's on the verge of bankruptcy. At that time, with a series of scandalous arrangements - which emerged in the Committee of Inquiry - with some laws passed, it finally ended up buying it by a company called "HMITHES" of Piraeus Bank, which, while showing profits of 3 000 euros, was in debt of 110 million euros. Anyway, don't stay too long in this. The hospital passed into Piraeus Bank's property. Under an unprecedented legislation, Mr Voridis, the hospital's license was turned into a private clinic in order to be able to operate in the private sector. It is a private clinic, which is owned by Piraeus Bank. For some time now, on the basis of the directives that the banks have taken from the European Central Bank, they wanted to sell, get rid of this asset, which is not the subject of financial activity. We were found with the administration of Piraeus Bank and we had expressed our intention - I'm talking about the end of 2017, early in 2018 - to return Henry Dynan Hospital to the public sector. In fact, we had made a proposal for them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] They did not listen to us and proceeded, without informing us, in a public call for expressions of interest with a statement on financial pages etc., to sell the "Chricos Dynan" Hospital to a private business. Then, in consultation with the Onassis Foundation, we signed a cooperation agreement on 26-7-2018. This cooperation agreement said that it co-operates the Greek public with the Onassis Foundation and the Onassis Heart Surgery Center. It has been signed by four ministers and by the President of the Onassis Heart Surgery Centre and by the President of the Onassis Foundation, Mr. Papadimitriou. There he said he would seek to participate in the Onassis Foundation through a subsidiary of the Onassis Foundation, to acquire the full ownership, prestige and possession of the Henry Dunan Hospital, and on the same day he would donate it without consideration to the Onassis Cardios Cardios Surgery Centre, in order to become the "Chrikos Dynan" one of the three nursing establishments of the Onassis Heart Surgery Center. The second would be the Transplant Center, with which, as you know, we signed...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u60	Please don't deceive. I won't give you unlimited time. I've already left you enough time. Because it's interesting, I'll let you talk next year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. It would therefore be one of the three nursing establishments of the Onassisian Heart Surgery Center. One was the so-called "Greek League". The other would be the Transplant Center, which, from what I learn on the basis and the legislature, starts any minute. On the basis of this agreement on 15-10-18, the binding tender phase, which was deemed to be fruitful by PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS, was the consultant for the sale. Three proposals have been made. The best was the proposal that we tabled. It was 78 million, 5 million the Onassis Foundation, 73 the Greek State over a period of time. The bank started making "giggles". While in a previous competition he had received 40 million, while all the financial pages said he would not get more than 60-65 million pt 70, it seems he saw "flavoured" and began to say that "we want more, we don't do it, we have the works".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u62	Please, shorten up. You have no privilege over other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u63	We're talking here, Mr. Kaklamani, about a big nursing facility...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u64	Then ask a timely question, so you can have plenty of time. I am not going to make any further distinction.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u65	His return to the public will strengthen...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u66	You suggest to me when I'm in the Chair you won't do, Mr. Polakis. I've left you, instead of two, five minutes. Within thirty seconds you'll be closing, or I'll turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u67	Don't fight me, Mr. Kaklamani.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u68	I won't fight you, but you won't give me a hint. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u69	In early 2019, without ever proclaiming the tender, we submitted a second proposal at an improved price of EUR 88 million of which 78 million to the Greek State, with 15-year-old payment and 10 million to the Onassis Foundation. The negotiations continued, the situation was hardened, and with intervention by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras at a meeting which took place on 6-5-2019, it was announced that the Greek State gave 100 million in 15 years' time and the Onassis Foundation 10 million. It was also announced in the media - because, of course, this story was accepted first and foremost by the bank representative at the meeting - that we are moving towards the regaining of Henry Dunan by the public sector. The technical party's negotiations continued, exactly how this will be reflected in the agreement, because there were some skeletons in the wardrobes...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u70	You ask the question, Mr Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u71	The question is, we have reached this point. Will you, as a government, continue this? Will this contest be completed? Are we going to reinstate Henry Dunn as planned and initially agreed with the bank's management? What is your political will? I had to say that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u72	They're familiar with this. You've said it ten more times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u73	No, they're not known, every day...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor. You'll have time, don't be nervous, to give a full answer if you need time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. And for the time being I can use from my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u76	You won't use secondary. There'll be tolerance to protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. I'll be - I believe - in time. Mr Paulakis, first of all, thank you very much for the question, because it enables us to clarify some things. And I personally know this very well, because in 2014 I was the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Health. Allow me to make a brief, short historical regression. In the introduction of your question you refer to the adventures of the Henry Dunan Hospital and brought it to the brink of bankruptcy. You are therefore interested in the fate of a private nursing institution operating under the rules of the private economy. This is a pleasant news for us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u78	Of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u79	Henry Dynan was a mutually beneficial institution, which, in fact, had created a debt of 300 million euros. In 2014, therefore, there were three solutions. The first was to join the ESS - which you wanted - by charging the public health system to a hospital with a debt of EUR 300 million, when the total budget of 30 hospitals in the country was EUR 1.5 billion. Second solution was to leave it to his luck. This would mean auctioning at very low value - as it would lose the license and sell it simply as a building - the closure of the hospital and the loss of jobs. We have prevented that, with the legislative intervention you have referred to. Third solution. It was auctioned by the creditor bank at a very large amount of EUR 115 million. What for? Because we accepted the auctioning of the clinic, since it does not lose its license - that is all we voted on - because no one would get a blank building. That's how the EUR 115 million came out. The jobs were secured, the insurance funds and the staff were paid. And yes, Mr Polakis, the socially irreversible Samaras government has ensured jobs and by an act of legislation, then it has provided insurance information to the institution in order to continue paying workers. In addition, we ensured that Henry Dunan Hospital continued to operate as a hospital and did not lose its license. And, indeed, the best proposal until then was EUR 55 million and was auctioned at EUR 115 million. And at that time the capitalisation of the ‘Medical Group’ was EUR 69 million, ‘Health’ EUR 55 million and ‘Jasus’ EUR 42 million. And the auction was open and anyone who wanted it could appear and make a better proposal. And with the sum of EUR 115 million what did we do? We first paid the insurance funds, the workers' contributions - we gave EUR 12 million to the workers - tax and then the suppliers followed. Now let's see what you've tried to do. You have essentially raised the issue of the statization of Henry Dunan. Henry Dynan was never public, because you turned around and said he was coming back to the public. But you have not completed it - as you have said - but neither have you actually launched it, but you have only created impressions that it is returning to the public, an institution which was not in the public domain. And I am referring to state intervention, because the EUR 110 million loan essentially concerned state funding, in order to buy Henry Dunn, because the loan would be paid by the State because it would exempt the 'Opene' from the rebate and clawback and 20% of its operating costs would go to the repayment of the loan. And I am referring to state intervention, because the EUR 110 million loan essentially concerned state funding, in order to buy Henry Dunn, since the loan would be paid by the State, because it would be exempted from the rebate and clawback, and 20% of its operating costs would go to the repayment of the loan. Therefore, this acquisition would not be beneficial to the Greek State, but would be even more burdensome to the state budget. And all this without a plan to safeguard industrial relations. Because you know very well that working relationships at the two hospitals are different. And I wonder: What competent authority - why did you refer to a subsidiary of Piraeus Bank - would have approved this sale by paying only 10 million in cash, while the original offer of the "Onauseum", as you say in your question, was 78 million? What competent authority would allow the purchase of HIMTHE by a one-faced IKE, which you set up for this purpose? And how were you sure about the unanimous approval of this transaction by the bank's board of directors? But I would like to mention the most important one and close, Mr President: the tender for the sale of Henry Dunn is a private competition, and therefore your government should not be involved, because the work of each government is not to interfere in private competitions. The government's job is to create a favourable investment environment and thrive for investment. And I say that you were involved because the pressures exerted by your Government on foreign investment are known to be in order to withdraw their bids and to remain only the binding offer on the side of the "Onanese". In other words, you sent the message to the markets "do not dare and come to invest in the country". The public made a raw intervention in a private-sector process and forced it. You have dealt with the issue with sluggishness and amateurism, with the sole aim of creating impressions. I reply to your question: The Government will not interfere in a procedure involving private tenders. We are aiming at attracting investment and creating a friendly investment environment. Our aim is to ensure the public character of the health system, a system that coexists both in the state sector and in the private sector. Henry Dynan serves the public health system, since it has a contract with EEAS and does not concern us with the question of the statement of Henry Dynan. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u81	I won't stay in the regression you've made. We won't agree. This was also the case in the Committee of Inquiry, what and what the irreversible or irreversible government of Samaras did. It just seems, whoever doesn't want to ferment ten days is sifting. You've answered here that you don't care. Listen, in a few words, but what will happen from now on. To know that the world and its employees "Dynan" that you, Henry Dynan Hospital, let it evolve into a competition - or new one that he or he will - because you are not actually moving forward with the cooperation agreement that we have signed with the "Ownion". Listen, of course, we intervened, it's not dead, it's our pride. Of course, we have intervened and said that instead of getting Piraeus Bank EUR 50-60 million from a private fund and taking this jewelry to the private sector, we are giving - because that was our political choice - a redistribution for the public sector. We left you 37 billion, Mr. Contozamani. The surplus could well cover the repayment of the loan over time. It's not true what you're saying, because you're saying half-truths. It is not true what you said they would take only the 10 million euros of Onassisios at first, they would also be taken from the Greek state. To know, then, the world that you will now let a contest to which the Piraeus Bank will sell with a sum that is certainly not going to reach it, because from the moment you're involved and financially you know very well that you were not going to give that amount. We wanted it to be part of the public health system, to be one of the three hospitals of the "Cardiocratic Center" - I said that the second would be the Transmitter Association, which will now be built - and there was no problem with staff, absolutely none. On the basis of the legislation that we had done for the Transplant Association and the way we changed the working regime in the "Occupy" and agreed and the employees agreed, the corresponding thing would be because these workers would also be transferred there. There was no question of either limiting one to five, or one to one, or anything. Their working rights would be guaranteed and, of course, the public health system would be strengthened with a large nursing unit, which could directly compete with a number of large private'magasies' that exist up there, because this is the boom of history. You don't want to go back to the public, so that business isn't supposed to be undermined. I'll just tell you one word. The "Cardiocratic Center", "Papageorgiou" and today by EOPYY take a very large part of their revenues with the hospitals they deposit. These are taken from the EEA's public hospital code, from 980 million. "Dynan" now receives money from EEAY as a private clinic from the code that other private clinics get. It was a little solo, what you said, that since he's had a contract with EPPY, it's been a public one. And "medical" has a contract with EOPY as well as "Metropolitan".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u82	I didn't say public, it works in the public system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u83	You said that before. And "Health" has a contract. Only they get it from a code, which has a clawback. Dynn takes 25 to 30 million euros a year if I remember correctly. Now he won't take it from there, if he came to the state, but he'd take it from the other code. Obviously, there would be no rebate and clawback, as there is no rebate and clawback the financing of EEAS to public hospitals. In practice, it would also be released to private clinics to reduce clawback. So, in short, if I understand well, history has been closed for you. We say that the money is there to buy. There's so many more. Of course, I would like to say a word about the bank's administration, which has played defence in recent years. It will not be forgotten, because on 6 May, which we announced - with the final proposal - that this can be passed, then 'driven' because of the European elections. The technical negotiation also continued until July. There is a nucleus of people and within "Dynn", who are in managerial positions and who live from it in the management positions, who have now given in favor of everything in order not to be sold, not to come "Dynn" in the public sector. To be very careful at what price they will sell when they sell it, because nothing will be forgotten and nothing will be left unanswered. You guys say I'm sending out what you think I'm texting. You know, of course, that you have the money, you just want to leave it to the private sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u84	Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u85	Mr Pollack, I would point out once again - because you said so - that Henry Dunan was never in the public domain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u86	It was.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u87	We would also ask you to give us this agreement you signed. We didn't find anything at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u88	It was a public-private institution. "Papageorgiou"...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u89	The agreement you signed with Piraeus Bank and the "United Nations" in order to proceed with the proposal, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u90	What are you asking, Mr. Undersecretary? Didn't you find her at the Department of Health?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u91	We haven't found her anywhere in the Department of Health. If you can give it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Contozamani, didn't you find her?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u93	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u94	Put it in the Minutes, Mr. Polakis. This was not a personal, private agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u95	What do you say, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u96	After he says he didn't find her at the Department of Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u97	Mr President, this is the cooperation agreement. I'll give it to you to take a photocopy. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u98	Good. Take a photo and return it to Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u99	This is the cooperation agreement with the 'October'. It is the Ministry of Health with the "Onasium Heart Surgery Center" and the Onassis Foundation. She's telling them pretty clearly inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u100	I'm telling you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u101	Listen to me. This is how the Onassis Foundation submitted a proposal to the private competition. He participated as an institution.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u102	Deal. The issue with the statement in the Minutes has been resolved. To be taken and handed the copy to Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u103	We asked you to give us the deal because we didn't find it. I didn't say there was no deal. We didn't find anything at the Ministry. It's clear, you said it too, yes, you intervened, you kicked out the investment shapes and we don't know how the competition would turn out or how a next competition would turn out, in order for an investment scheme to get "Chrik Dyan".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u104	You accused me of interfering and finding nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u105	Of course, we in no way give any room to private health companies to attempt in the health sector. I'm saying this because you said we wanted to privatize them. We first have said that we are in favour of public and private partnerships, for the benefit of the best health services, without additional costs for the public sector, and we have repeatedly said that both the public health system and the private sector operates. That is why I stressed that Henry Dunn operates within the public health system, since the health system also serves through contracts with the EEAS. With regard to the rebate and clawback, in fact the “Union” and “Papageorgiou” in Thessaloniki are excluded from clawback. That is why I, too, talked about nationalisation, because the loan is financed indirectly, which would take Henry Dunn. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u106	You didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u107	We are now moving on to the third with number 99/15-10-2019, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mera25, Mr Angeliki Adamopoulos, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Amendment by Act of Legislation of Article 56 of Law 4139/2013 on KETHES". The State Secretary for Health will answer Mr. Kontozamanis. Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in accordance with the procedure of the completely inappropriate urgency, without prior dialogue, public consultation and a procedure of consensus, you are, by means of an act of legislation, abolishing the self-determination of the CECH, a legal person of private law, who has been active for forty years in the area of the treatment of dependent persons and their social reintegration. You delete paragraph 2 of Article 56 of Law 4139/2013 leaving the organisation without purpose, without the possibility of setting up advisory stations, rehabilitation centres, therapeutic communities and reintegration centres. Its capacity to create self-managed cooperatives and businesses is therefore abolished, to develop international cooperation and to support all kinds of activities which contribute to the attainment of its objectives or which are deemed necessary for the help of dependent pharmaceuticals. You are also removing paragraph 3, leaving issues relating to the Agency's resources completely unregulated, as well as paragraphs 4 and 5 for the medical and administrative support of the CDE from the public sector. On the other hand, it is foreseen to replace the Agency’s hereditary and unpaid board with a Board of Wages appointed, obviously of the Ministry’s choice. A bureaucratic structure is therefore created which will be disrupted by any government change and which will be subject to outside intervention. There is therefore an innovative and tested, fully democratic, organisational and administrative body, which gives participatory support to all those concerned with independence and social reintegration, namely those treated, their families, workers and volunteers. We are therefore asking, Minister, why first intervention in the area of dealing with dependency, and indeed in an act of legislation, is about the real degradation of an organisation of both effective therapeutic, scientific and educational nature and of both clear resources management. So, instead of promoting other organisations as a model an unpaid administrative board, which operates in an exemplary way, you are replacing it with a salary, causing further costs that the taxpayer can bear? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u109	Me too, Mrs. Adamopoulou. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Adamopoulou, the act of legislation, as you know, is ratified by law within an exclusive period of forty days and I therefore believe that the object is now to be evaded. However, the CECH, as you know, is a supervised legal person of the Ministry of Health, which is financed exclusively by the Ministry of Health. In accordance with the principles of budgetary practice, when a legal person belonging to the wider public sector is financed by the State, the latter must have an active and direct role in the administration of the organisation and, of course, the Greek citizen must know where his money is going. Furthermore, the designated management board will promote in a way, we think, more efficient and more efficient the objectives of the Agency, by applying the principles of good administration. The abolition of the self-employed is therefore only linked to the principles of financial management and good administration, as stated in the explanatory memorandum to the act in question. I would also like to say that the act of legislation does not address issues of dependency, in response to what you say about what will happen in the area of dependency, but only refers to the issue of good financial management and administration of the Agency. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u111	Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you spoke of good administration because it is funded by the Ministry of Health. It must have a direct role for the Ministry. What has also been made widely known by publications, which I shall invoke and testify, is this. In particular, in the ‘CATHMERINA’ of 1 October by a former member of the board of directors of the JETA, it is submitted that the State grant last year amounted to EUR 16,625 000. The total revenue was EUR 18.4 million and the costs of EUR 15.2 million. There's stock. The CDE is audited annually by a company of chartered auditors. It shall display its clinical, administrative and financial data on the Internet. His good performance has also recently been confirmed by an audit carried out by the General Accounting Office of the State. This is a body that is a model of good administration, democratic decision-making procedures and - most importantly - efficiency in dealing with the drugs issue, as seven out of ten of those who have finally joined the therapeutic programme do not use substances and have no involvement with the law. It is worth mentioning that the changes promoted by this act have caused the reaction not only in the country but also internationally. Letters have been sent from world tops, such as Igor Kucenok, who is formerly head of the UN Response Office, the European Network of Treatment Units, the chief director of the world's largest Response Research Programme. The CECH was a symbol of even the UN agency for drugs and crime. At the moment the regime is being cancelled. He loses this status, and the UN himself does not accept as an independent symbol that will be run by government donors, and a pre-approved research programme has also been revoked. We are still going to testify in the Minutes and other testimonies, which are speaking precisely about this good administration. We do not understand why, so far, the government considers that this good administration has not existed and this intervention was necessary, and indeed by means of legislation. What is the urgency of the matter at the moment? It is worth mentioning that the substance of the treatment consists of the fact that the healed, the dependents themselves assume responsibility for stopping use. There is no sense of substitutes - this is very important and must be stressed - so that they are completely cured and then volunteered to provide their services in order to help unholy users to get rid of them. We therefore believe that the legality and sound financial management of the agency has already been demonstrated. We believe that the act of legislation is a straightforward interference within the organisation, which is a model of democratic operation. We believe that it is not only the process and the right to vote on the agency, but also the dry rehab programme, which has helped many young people to get rid of. Unfortunately, the phenomenon of use, of drug dependence, is perpetuated by the most productive part of our society, which is castrated. We hope that this policy will not lead to the use of the substitutes applied by the OECD. To sum up, we consider that all this policy is an interference with the organization's culture itself, with the way in which it deals with defiance and treatment. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. I would stress once again that it is not legally and reasonably tolerated, since an agency is financed exclusively by the Greek State, the latter does not exercise its decisive role in the management of the organisation. And I would like to say one more thing: the State, the Ministry of Health, does not intervene in the area of self-management of the scientific and therapeutic programmes of the CEDEFOP, which for the first time are designed and belong to the body of the general assembly, which is clearly and explicitly entrusted by this legislative act. Consequently, the institution of direct decision-making relating to the purpose of the JETD is implemented in a democratic and efficient manner by the general assembly, which has until now had sole competence and only the election of the board of directors of the JETD, but has no right, respectively, to devise and design the institutional role of the JETD. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u115	Because you said you'd bring law, didn't you? - within forty days, and it's already been twenty, about, from the act of legislation, there's always a middle road between the two ends, I say now. When financed by the State by any body, the State cannot control, even if there is good administration. So, assuming that the Board of Directors will be seven, the average road will be to have three of the CDEH, three of the state and president of joint acceptance. Because as regards the scientific part, Mrs Adamopoulou and the Minister recognised the role of the JET. And because I happen to know him for years, I know he's not a fan of the other method, but her. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they attend our meeting, after being informed about the history of the building, twenty-nine students and students and two teachers attendants from the 4th Chalkida Municipal School. Welcome to Athens and the House! We are finishing the question to the Deputy Minister of Health with the fourth question number 103/15-10-2019 on a second-round question from the MP Cyclades of the Radical Left Coalition, on the subject of “In hostage” workers at the General Hospital of Thera, due to a multi-month suspension of service changes.” Mr. Symphony, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to make a very brief revert to the Santorini Hospital. You also know that in July 2016 the Hospital of Santorini was inaugurated by the former Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, after almost four and a half years that had built a fully equipped building, which the former government of Samara - Venizelos wanted to privatise. The Hospital, therefore, was founded in public character, just as the Holy Metropolis of Santorini did, which donated the plot. It therefore operates in public character and under the supervision of AEMY, because this is the way the local bodies of Santorini chose at that time, in cooperation with the Ministry. Since its start of operation, hundreds of thousands of incidents have been passed so far. In the first five months of 2019, we had about twenty - seven thousand six hundred forty - three incidents, about one hundred sixty surgery and fifty - two births. I would also like to say that over the years the staff serving in the hospital, all the specialities, have been with fixed-term contracts, and that is why the previous government, the SYRIZA government, in September 2018, received a notice for recruitment of staff under an indefinite contract of fifty-eight seats. This process was almost complete in July. You know, all the bureaucratic processes to complete need a little time. Unfortunately, you took off two Circulars as soon as you took over the government and frozen the service change. We tabled a question at the beginning of August and because there was no answer to this simple question, we had to turn it into a timely question. I would like to know if there is any development that is positive on this issue - I think there is, but you will say it. The question is, therefore, why the whole process has been delayed, types of procedures that had been approved by the AACC and were completed when you took over. Because it is a given fact that the Santorini Hospital is a jewel, which serves millions - I would say - local people and visitors, and not only those who visit, tourists, but also the surrounding small islands that need health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u117	All right, it's critical, my dear compatriot, Mr. Symblene, but not millions. Don't do it the "Evangelism" of the Cyclades, that is, the way I heard it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u118	I was referring to tourists as cumulative...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u119	Okay, not everybody's going through the hospital. You said, twenty - seven thousand visits had.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u120	I'm telling you, it serves potentially...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u121	I told you it was critical, but don't do it anymore and... Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to say one word about what you said about the legislative act. The Ministry of Health will be consistent in respect of the maintenance of the years in order to ratify this act of legislation. I now come to the question from Mr. Armaleniu. Mr Papoutsis, first of all, let me say that, yes, you inaugurated, you cut a ribbon with bases and branches at the Santorini Hospital, but the aerospaces to Athens continued. We are, at least, pleased that you support this hospital, which operates under the umbrella of AEMY. It's the Anonymous Health Units Company. It's an anonymous state-owned company. On 25 September 2019, the Minister for Health calmed the ban on service changes in his letter of 25 September 2019. Therefore, this particular issue, which refers to your question, is considered to have expired. The issue of increased needs for staff does indeed exist as the legacy of your former government. Our will is to solve these problems. It is fully understandable - and has already been captured by the new administration of AEMY - the need to strengthen the staff of all specialities, for all the structures of the country and for AEMY and the Santorini Hospital in particular, without being an exception. Today we are talking about the recruitment procedures for unrestricted staff are being completed very rapidly, of course, in the context of the possibilities. Of the hundred and fifty - eight places of private law indefinitely, forty - seven have been covered. Appointments to TSE and HR categories have been issued. Regarding the specialties and gaps that exist, the number of orthopedic doctors at the Santorini Hospital from one who we found upon completion of the intake from the notice will reach three. The number of radiodiagnostic doctors is already in three, and we already have two anestheticists. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u123	Before I give the floor to Mr. Armalene, Mr. Kontozamani, don't forget that I'm from Andros. I'm elected in Athens, but I'm a Cycladic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u124	Andreotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u125	So I have an increased emotional interest. Now, I am given the opportunity to say that you have all used the longest-lived one in the history of the Ministry of Health, the 2005 AEMY Act. But you voted against him all in the Chamber at that time. You have all voted against him, apart from two colleagues, Mr Alekos Papadopoulos and Mr Christodoulakis. And PASOK voted against him. You said I privatize health because I had made him. And if there was no such law, you know there would be no hospital in Santorini. I mention it this way for history. Mr. Wireless, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, you are right that in the memorandum phase it has helped the public health system because it has remained exclusively a legal person governed by public law under the supervision of the Ministry of Health and Finance. It was the only way not to control the recruitments that were in place by lenders, as you know, under rule one by ten or one by five. That is why the inclusion of the Santorini Hospital in AEMY was chosen. It's very right. I mean, Minister, the aerospace blocks you said, of course, continued. They continued, however, at a subfold rate than the one who existed before, because the Santorini Health Center could not respond to the tens of thousands of people. I said millions ago potentially with the people who visit with the cruise ships. About a million and a half a year visit Santorini. So all of these had the opportunity, if they had a problem, to visit the hospital. But there is now one problem. You have had a good day, of course, because I do not know what you wanted to check, and after two and a half months of the recruitments had to be completed - but at the moment there are two serious problems that will depend on the hospital's course. One problem is whether to approve overtime overtime for doctors. It is something that doctors are necessarily doing, because it is not enough and you know that, despite repeated notices, the appropriate number of doctors of various specialties has not appeared, because there is also the serious problem of the Santorini residence. Unfortunately, the municipality did not help, despite the fact that they were committed to helping with 1 million euros a year. Even the municipality, the previous municipal authority, which left reserve of EUR 26 million leaving, did not help and was committed to giving EUR 1 million. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] We were giving 5 million euros a year through AEMY. Of course, these could not be directed to homes for doctors, nurses and other personnel. So the first issue is whether you're going to approve overtime. And the second issue, which had been discussed and was on the stools to be amended, was the single payroll. The uniform salary of staff due to AEMY is much lower than the salary of the National Health System. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore - I conclude, Madam President - this is a serious matter. We had put an amendment on this issue so that this world could stay and serve the hospital. Unfortunately, with the elections, these things have stopped and we want to know if you intend to make a similar amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I mentioned before that on 25 September the Minister for Health lifted the ban on services. To be more precise, there was also a letter from the Minister that, in urgent cases, there could be a change of office. In fact, you are well aware of the case with the anesthesiologist at the Hospital of Santorini, where we moved to anesthesiologist in order to meet the needs of the Santorini Hospital. Now, as far as the overtime of doctors is concerned, it's already a state law. Yesterday, in the Ministry of Health's bill, we voted on the legalisation of expenditure on overtime overtime. I think it's n.4633. So that is no longer the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the first question under number 101/15-10-2019 of the First Circuit of the Greek Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The necessary actions to protect against fires and prevent forest fires". The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Dimitrios Economou. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u130	Madam President, I would like to speak on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u131	You're welcome, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u132	It gives a special impression that the Minister responsible is not present. The Minister responsible for forestry policy and environmental matters is Mr Kostis Hatzidakis. I don't know if Mr. Hatzidakis is trying to escape or avoid anything. However, Mr Economou is a State Secretary - I have the FEK of defining his responsibilities - he does not have responsibility for forestry policy, and Mr Hatzidakis is the only Minister from the staff of the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment who has this responsibility. I would therefore like to know whether the House has a letter or the reason or reason why the Minister is missing and avoids this answer, bearing in mind that forest policy is one of the most important for our country, taking into account the extent of forests and the correlation between forests, biodiversity and climate change. I think millions of people spend on forest policy, thousands of people work in forests, that depends on fires, human life. We have paid a blood tax from the fires and I cannot understand why a Minister is absent from the debate on his own institutional object, on his own portfolio. I would therefore like you to inform us whether there is a document justifying the absence of the Minister, which is the activity which prevents him from presenting here today. I think that after the Amazon, after the fires in Siberia, following the major problems, and while the Prime Minister himself referred to the correlation between fires and climate crisis, it is unacceptable that the Minister responsible should not be here. I would like to know institutionally whether there is any justification or pretext for the Minister's absence and whether Mr Economou can answer that question, because I know he does not have the portfolio. This is not a question for Mr Economou. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u133	Mr Colleague, you know very well that the Greek Parliament is informing the General Secretariat of the Government, which tells us who will answer each question. It is therefore a matter for the government to appoint the Minister responsible for answering your question. That is why I think that the Chair does not currently have the power to answer your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u134	You mean that the Bureau of Parliament has not been informed in writing of the reason for the absence of Mr Hatzidakis, that we do not have any such information to know. So I politically put forward my disagreement, our objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u135	We've been informed of Mr. Economou's presence. I have the document in my hands. Mr. Economou will answer you if you agree to answer you and you want to continue with the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u136	Madam President, if this concerns my own personal perception of parliamentary control, I will obviously ask my question, because I respect this House. Mr. Hatzidakis doesn't respect the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u137	We have recorded your objections. Please tell me if you want to continue with the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u138	I think we are in the face of an unprecedented devaluation of the parliamentary work. I will continue the question because we owe the Greek citizens our duties. I don't know if the Undersecretary will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u139	You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u140	Thank you very much. First of all, Madam President, Minister, I believe that the government's environmental interest is false. If the government were really interested in the environment, the relevant Minister should be here and put in place, because the question of fires is one of the most important issues, particularly the issue of forestry policy. We are particularly impressed by the absence of the Minister, taking into account that our country now has a specific route for forestry policy, and the government must implement it. There is a national strategy since November 2018 for the first time in our country, linking protection to issues of gross national product and rural work. In this strategy, the New Democracy during the relevant debate in Parliament - it has been discussed twice - has been positive. In view of the fact that 60% of our country is concerned with forestry, forestry ecosystems, the first project that was created and ratified within the forestry strategy is the three-year plan to prevent forest fires, which, in conjunction with the Commission's conclusion of Goldammer, was published in FEK on 5 July 2019. It provided for support with human resources, with money and technical tools for forestry services. EUR 140 million is planned to finance the implementation of projects from modernised management studies, as we have already ratified new standards, with the intake of five hundred 50 scientists - forestists and forests - who will oversee these management studies, but also provide the protection sections with new technical tools, such as the identification of critical areas, for example hot spots, which are at risk from forest fires, as well as specific tools and projects to prevent and treat forest fires in the mixed forest - housing area, with pilot applications in three areas of Greece. All of this has been published in a leaf of the Official Journal of the Government, which, if you like, I can deposit. It also includes information, preparation of society, awareness raising and planning evacuation projects, together with the first ministerial decision signed for the cooperation of the Forest and Fire Corps, with modern tools, such as the detachment, GIS and the production of new technological products that give work and perspective to rural and new children. So, then, the Prime Minister's admission to the UN step that the parameter of climate change is crucial in terms of the size, the risk, the spread of forest fires and is linked to the case in Matti, where we lamented human lives, has given us a special impression - and I am closing, Madam President - that the Minister recently mentioned neither the national strategy nor the fire prevention plan at all. So the question now that the anti-nuclear period ends is whether the government will implement the plan to prevent forest fires or leave forests and forestry services unprotected, with no staff and no resources, as New Democracy has done so many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u141	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u142	Thank you. On fires in Matti, as the question starts like this, I just want to remind you that the fire itself is obviously due to climate change. Of course, fires were made before the phenomenon occurred. Victims are another story. It was a fire's own management problem. To go to this question, the national forest strategy was adopted in November 2018. As far as I can see, the first action plan for implementing the national strategy was signed two days before the June elections - on 25 - and it was published in early July 2019. What is envisaged within the project is indeed useful in general. There's no doubt about it. I fear, however, that for quite a few of them it was a little late in July to launch and prevent fires in the summer of 2019. Some of them obviously want preparation and maturity. Both studies and projects require maturation beforehand. In any case, what we did is that we asked the competent forestry services of the decentralised administrations in July, when the government took over, to tell us what measures they wanted to take with funding from the concrete action plan you mentioned. I would remind you that this is 60 million, of which 20 million is for 2019. Some forestry services have responded, and in implementation of what has been said by the forestry services, we have already made funding. In total it is about 600 thousand of the 20 million. It was obviously too late. In any case, as far as recruitment is concerned, I see here that there has been a document from the Directorate-General for Forestry to the then Minister, Mr Famelos, with which he has been calling for five hundred forest recruitments. In 2019, about three or three and a half years had passed since the recruitment was approved with the document you mentioned. It was also a little late. So, all this three years - four years, what happened? The then government was totally ignoring the forests, didn't it have a forest policy? He had, I guess, but it's not doing these things. In any case, on the basis of the national action plan and the first plan found by us in July, we are preparing a programme for both projects and studies and recruitment. But that takes some time. We will ensure that everything can be done within the available time for 2020 has been done in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u143	Me too, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u144	Madam President, thank you. Madam President, I too will repeat to the Chair - I hope the Minister will hear it - that we are seeking to hear the reason why Mr Hatzidakis is absent, the reason why the Minister responsible has not come to answer for forestry policy. Your own incomplete knowledge of the subject is not due to your position, it is not because of you personally. It is because of the role and the responsibilities of the PPE, because I have already understood from your first answer that you do not understand what we are talking about. I'll remind you a little bit better. We are not talking about the 2019 report, Mr Economou. We are not talking about this, nor did I ask you for how much money was made available in 2019. A budget of 140 million, with five hundred and fifty recruitments, two hundred permanent and three hundred a certain period of three years for scientists for the next three years, was approved. So what we ask you, because the anti-nuclear period is over, is what you have planned to do, so that next year we have the executives and the budget in the services and if the strategy and recruitment policy will be implemented, which is indeed in FEK in June, not to be implemented in June, but to be implemented throughout 2019, so that we are ready in 2020. It's a preventive question. In order to prevent you, we do not ask you about the accounts or anything in my question seems to be the subject of the report. But let us clarify some things. So what does this plan involve? With new management tools, with GIS, telescopic methods and satellite processing, new management studies will be carried out in all the forests of Greece, as requested by the forestry services, to become the national strategy, because it was done from the bottom up, so that we can have organised logging, anti-nuclear zones, forest roads, sanitary and forest cleansing and patrols. That's the prevention plan. However, on what basis did this policy come from 2018 to 2019, as you mentioned? In fact, it came to a background where there was a reduction in resources and staff, a delay and a lack of modernisation of the Services, a depreciation of public Forest Services by the parties of the memorandum, from the New Democracy and the PASOK, and a lack of cooperation with the Fire Corps. The evidence is that from the EUR 85 million forest service budget of 2008, in 2014 it was EUR 15 million the Forest Services budget. The question, therefore, is this: We have decided and secured resources to increase the budget. Will you do it? That's what I asked you. Secondly, from six thousand two hundred in 2000, we fell to five thousand thirty executives in 2006 and two thousand nine hundred executives in 2014. The question, then, is this: will you make the recruitment planning that we and the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction have approved? Two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two. Will you do it? It's just my question. At the same time, not to say that we did nothing, we went ahead with the forestry map programme. You know, Mr. Economou, and your scientific starting point, that forty years the Greek state has done nothing. SYRIZA started it. So we have started a joint programme - and I want an answer on it - where five thousand sixty-six workers have cleaned our country's forests for two years. Question: Will the programme continue? It's just questions. This is part of my question. We have updated management studies, brought the national strategy to the House and signed this plan to which you are referring as the intake of forest fires. You asked a question at the edge of the speech why we did not carry out recruitments in 2016. You must have been in another country, Mr. Economou. So I inform you that the New Democracy and the PASOK had signed an recruitment restriction based on the rule 'one to ten' and then 'one to five' and when the country came out of the bonds of the Memorandum, on our own initiative and not on our own government, and not on the government that you are serving today, the programming was immediately released and we joined the programming of the two positions, as soon as this opportunity and the opportunity for our country has been opened. The question is: Are these possibilities secured by all Greeks with the SYRIZA government, will the New Democracy Government implement them or turn us into a fourth memorandum that will ban the recruitment of Forest Services? So I ask you whether you will proceed with the programming that we have given our country the chance to have. Preventing and limiting fire incidents is a crucial issue for human life, but also for the environment. It cannot be underestimated in particular in the absence of the Minister for the Environment. I feel that the Minister for the Environment and Energy, the only thing he has in his political interest, is to sell out energy and productive sectors that the Ministry has. On environmental issues, it has a strange devaluation. The NATURA 2000 players want to give them the regions. The subject of plastic containment has given it to an institution! It's unbelievable how he's assigned the ministry to areas of political planning! As far as forests are concerned, the Minister does not come to answer and sends the State Secretary for Planning. It is very important that your object is linked to the uses of land, but not to forest policy. On the other hand, we have designed a very innovative programme - and I conclude - which, for the first time, would have three pilot fire prevention projects in the mixed forest area - housing in the summer of 2020. So the question is very simple. Will you give the EUR 140 million approved in the Public Investment Programme and the regular budget? Will the two hundred employees and the three hundred fifty employees be hired? Will the fire protection program continue? Will we have the opportunity in the summer of 2020 to have three pilot projects in a mixed area of forest - housing, so that we do not have a new Eye? Mr. Secretary, only prevention is progressing. I have been avoided and with the absence of a political object, Greece does not go any further. Excuse me for the time, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u145	However, Mr Colleagues, I must remind you that the Government has sent a representative to answer your question and has not remained unanswered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u146	Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u147	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much. For what you said about the absence of Mr Hatzidakis and the lack of interest in the environment, I understand your interest, but you are not right. Just, Mr. Hatzidakis today had an unsuccessful obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u149	Tell us which.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u150	That doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u151	How doesn't it matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u152	But that's not the question. Ask Mr. Hatzidakis when he comes. It is common that the Minister should not come, but that a State Secretary should come, even if he is not directly responsible for this matter. After all, the responsibility of the political leadership is horizontal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Mitsotakis didn't say he was going to change that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u154	Yeah, to the extent that's done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u155	Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the Minister to conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u156	Obviously to the extent that it is done, but that does not mean that there are no emergency and urgent. We need to see it as a whole, in some depth of time and with statistics. You can't apply it in an individual case. Now, I see here that your second question from the two refers to 2019. It says, in other words, what action the government will take in 2019. To implement a number of actions, in addition to recruitment, for licences, we need a maturation. So, as I have said before, we are drawing up an overall programme which provides for the identification of the necessary anti-nuclear protection measures, forestry studies, etc. and to develop these necessary measures in cooperation with the decentralised administrations, which are also responsible. We're on our way, as I told you. We have already asked them to make concrete proposals to us and we are drawing up an overall programme which will be promoted very quickly. I do not see why the first action plan you were saying immediately after November 2018 was adopted when the national forestry strategy was adopted. From the memoranda of the three Memorandum Governments of PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA we came out in the summer of 2018. Since then, several months had stopped the recruitment problem. In addition, recruitment had not been abolished, it was a matter of priorities. It was a question, for example, whether you'd hire cleaners or hire foresters.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u157	Are you gonna hire them? What do you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u158	Wait a minute, I'll answer you. You will allow me to answer you in response to your question. You suggested there was no intake. There was. You just preferred to hire some executives on some other items. It was your choice. It's not like you couldn't. Also, you could've been in half 2018 and half 2019 had moved on to recruitment. In any case, it is clear that it is delayed two days before the election to bring a plan for the first time. I've answered that we're promoting it, processing it and improving it. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u159	So, Minister, four months you haven't decided if you're going to hire? For studying...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u160	But you've done eight months since the NRP was approved.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u161	Minister, if you remember...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u162	Anyway, all right. I think I've answered you. For forest maps you are absolutely right. And the Minister himself has recognized it. Of course it was an important success of the government, there is no doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u163	Thank you too, Minister. MEP Mr Kamines is calling for a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u164	The House therefore approved the requested authorisation. The fourth topical question under number 98/15-10-2019, by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25, Kritona Arseni, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Guarantee and entrepreneurship work in breach of European directives'. The question will be answered by the State Secretary, Mr Dimitrios Economou. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Madam President. Undersecretary, the state of the planned project for the streams is really very bad, unscientific. We currently have as a choice for the anti-military works throughout Athens, which are the questions, throughout Attica, the excavations, to have a straight line on the beds. In other words, these men are lost, all vegetation is despised and life is lost in these currents. At the same time, we know that this leads to more flooding and, of course, it follows the enclaves that are burdening the situation. On the other hand, what we are all told is that it is causing the floods, that is, the demolition of illegal trespasses, whether they are houses, streets, or any other use, such as courtesys, etc. And where we have these abuses, that's where we have the floods. Instead, the state, as the European directives provide, should turn to the protection, the integrated management of wastewater streams and basins, which are provided for in the directives, so that all the national plans we have as a country are drafted in accordance with the directives, that is to say, that we are giving the streams to contractors who have no knowledge of this management of the waste, with studies that are wrong. We close, once again, enclosing the streams. We are destroying all the principles for adaptation to climate change. Thousands of trees are cut off in every stream that this work will be done. And all of this is to say that they will continue with the funding that the government will receive, especially on the issue of flooding projects. And many of these will be made available just to these currents in Attica. It is a scandalous, illegal European management of the issue of anti-military protection and will in fact lead to more flooding, not less.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Madam President. I understand your sensitivity, which I share on this issue. I would like to point out, however, first of all, in the timely question, there is a confusion between two different procedures. One process is the cleaning and maintenance of the rafts. The other procedure is delimitation. They are two different things and they are subject to different legislation and standards. I don't know if you mean both together, or if you mean one of them. In any case, I will answer both questions. Report here the works for enclosure, cleansing and settlement of the events in Attica. Cleaning and settlement are two very different things. I don't know if you mean both or one of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u168	As far as anti-military works are concerned, whether this concerns enclosures or cleaning. So these bulldozers that get into the streams and make a change of the landscape. The arrangement again concerns the bulldozers that come in and change the flow of the bed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u169	Thank you for clarifying. The second point is this: what you are saying is extremely serious, but it is also extremely vague. You say: 'These projects will cause increased flood risk, significant environmental degradation'. What works in particular? We need to have something specific. So, in general, every project? You say that the squids are destroyed and in general the provocative vegetation. From what plays? These works are not metaphysical. These are some specific works, five, ten, twenty. I don't know how much they are, I don't remember right now, but they're specific projects. You need to bring us some specific complaints. Can you do it? In everything, this must be done. Should the complaint be somewhat specific in order to be able to answer it, or what can I tell you? That the works aren't ruining? The corresponding level of response is to tell you that they do not generally destroy projects. You also say that very serious legislative texts are being violated, directives, a water catchment area management plan, the national climate change plan, but it is still very general. These are texts that have thousands of pages. You must tell us what is being violated and what specific case, otherwise I cannot really answer it. All I can answer is that all these plans are taken into account. If you ask us any more specific questions, we will be delighted to answer these questions. In any case, I would like to say two - three things about these issues, since you said that you were generally referring to cleaning and demarcation. The wording of the timely question gives an impression that the use of machinery, excavators, etc. it's kind of irregular or incorrect. It's not. You're allowed. Legislation allows for the use of such machinery. How is it applied in practice? In the case of projects in NATURA it is used, although the legislation allows it, manual methods which are milder. In the case of streams outside NATURA, what is provided for in the legislation is also used. So, on the basis of these general considerations, there seems to be no problem. If you mention something more specific, we would be very happy to answer you specifically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u170	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President. These projects are very clear. They are projects undertaken by the Government and the Region: they are the stream of Erasinos, the stream of Pikrodafni, it is the great stream of Rafina, it is Podonniftis, the last streams left in Athens, Minister. You know it. Let's not play theater between us. As far as complaints are concerned, what's wrong? Directive 207 of 1960. It says that we need to have integrated water supply management, to restore the natural flooding areas of the ramps, to provide space for the river. That's exactly what they don't do. Water Directive 260: ‘Completed river basin management, protection for ecosystem water improvement, prevention of further deterioration in water conditions’. It's exactly what can't be done, with cementation, with enclavement. Plan for the management of river basins for the water part of Attica, GR06. It calls for the prevention and restoration of surface ecosystems. Just what is not done with enclaves and this way of cleaning up. National climate change strategy, green growth. Two thousand trees are cut into the stream of Pondonite. Adapting urban planning to climate change and improving the thermal environment. With the thousands of trees that are being cut, the thermal phenomenon is growing and the danger of any extreme phenomena that come with climate change, and we are talking about victims of Greek citizens from heat shock. It is very clear what is happening. We have also sent a memorandum from the people, who call it very detailed, and I ask you to answer specifically. Do not resort to answering the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u172	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much. Now you have mentioned some more specific things, not of course sufficient. Let's say, you mentioned a number of Attica's stream projects, but you didn't refer to what specific project, what is happening exactly. What can I say? However, there are no such questions in the question. The question remains a very general one. If the question was about the Picrodafne stream, for example, or else in particular, I would at least have looked into what is going on in this stream. Based on the question, to look at what is going on in every project in streams, it really wasn't reasonable and feasible. What you said about the programming texts is also very general. It's like killing a rabbit with a cannon. In other words, there is a priority in these texts for increasing the green. Deal. It's very important, very important. What does this have to do with the fact that in certain specific streams there are some problems that you have not established? Even if it was like this, it's another class problem. One is very special, the other is very general. So I repeat that I cannot with the information you have in the question and with what you have just mentioned, answer something more specific, because they remain vague. If you ask us specific questions that the stream became such a thing, for example, was forbidden to use a bulldozer and used the contractor bulldozer, we will answer you. They may be valid. I can't rule it out. Obviously I cannot rule out something I do not know, but with such a general question I cannot answer anything else. You can come back with something more specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u174	And we, Minister. Now we will discuss the second question with number 9214-10-2019 on the second question of the Athens Western Sector of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina Giannakopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Attica Region waste management and new CYTA in the Race". Ms. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u175	Thank you very much, Madam President. I must say, Madam President, that it is a serious deterioration in the parliamentary procedure that the Minister responsible is not here today to respond to such a very serious issue, such as waste management, especially for the Attica region. As I said before, the Prime Minister had announced in an election that parliamentary procedures would be upgraded. Is this today an upgrade of the parliamentary procedure? Also, the Prime Minister on 17-24-2019 had visited the Race HYSTA and said in particular that Attica is sitting on a large health bomb, that the last cell of the Gender is filled with worrying rhythms and that we will soon be faced with dramatic situations. In this election statement by Mr Mitsotakis, today comes to reply to the Greek Parliament, the State Secretary, who is not responsible for this matter? I am sorry, but this was a point of order, Madam President, and I would ask you very much not to count on the time of my speech. That is why I have chosen, Minister, to seek an answer to this major issue, which is not only a major issue for the inhabitants of western Athens and Triasios, but is a major issue for the entire Attica region. For four million inhabitants of Attica, there is only one landfill area, the Flood HYTA. Unfortunately, Mr Minister, in the last sixty years only West Athens has lifted the unbearable burden of the whole region of Attica and not just, sometimes from other regions. And, unfortunately, we see that this situation will continue. In recent years, the Gender HYTA operates with extensions and condensations, which, due to their height, pose very serious risks for both workers and the inhabitants of Western Attica. Its life expectancy is until autumn 2020 and this is if all the necessary permits are received for the projects concerned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Honestly, Mr Minister, it is a great impression that by decision 248 of the NASNA in the summer, on 1 August 2019 and by the outgoing Regional Administrator of Attica Mr Durous, a new expansion of the HYTA was decided on in a new area in the Race, in the form of urgency, namely, a third phase. The relevant procedures have been initiated, and even if they are completed in good time, the problem will in fact only have a temporary solution. But what, Minister, gives rise to even greater impression is that the new regional authority also places the island and keeps the trace of this issue and that of the previous regional authority. You understand that this, apart from incomplete and unacceptable, in terms of waste management, will continue to be the same pathogen and the same injustice, that is to say, to continue to pay the marble and actually raise the burden only in West Athens. At the same time - and I close, Madam President - we see that both the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment and the new regional manager are relaunching the Regional Waste Management Plan, but without any prior approval being implemented. The previous district commander revised in 2016 the design of Mr. Sguru, but none of the planned plans were implemented. Because, Minister, we are looking for a clear, clear picture of the measures you intend to take in order to ensure the management of Attica waste in a way that ensures the protection of the environment, public health and quality of life. What measures do you intend to take in order not only to raise the West Attica, as it has been in the last sixty years, the unstable burden on the management of the entire waste in the region? Let us not forget, Madam President, that Prime Minister Mitsotakis is elected as a member of the West of Athens, while a month before, on 17 September 2019, when he visited the municipal waste treatment plant in Eleftherios Ioannina, he announced that the waste management problem in the country will have been solved within the four-year period.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u176	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u177	I'm guessing he didn't mean by expanding the Gender HYTA, which should be better aware that it's an unacceptable energy. To conclude with this: I promise that I will also ask the Prime Minister himself a timely question, so that we can have a clear position on his side and on the government's side about what they are going to do on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Madam President. You are absolutely right about the non-implementation of previous waste management plans in Attica. The cancellation of the first of these by the former district minister was devastating. For if the first had been implemented - we are not the ones who did not apply - we would have specific data today. In other words, we would have infrastructure which would allow adequate waste management and the decongestion of the Western Attica, which, as you quite rightly say, for sixty years, i.e. with all the previous governments, has unilaterally borne the burden of this huge problem. What's going on now? Expansion of the Gender HITA was requested. You are right that it is unacceptable. A situation is perpetuating, which is obviously outrageous, especially for the inhabitants of Western Attica. At the moment, however, nothing else could be done. There had to be a fire-fighting solution, probably temporary. In addition, an environmental impact study, specifying the necessary environmental conditions, has been presented to ensure that the problems and risks you mentioned do not occur and that the project is temporarily operational for some time. If that were not the case, there would have been a complete deadlock in Attica right now, for which the government was not responsible. However, it must in some way - in the least bad way - manage an extremely huge problem. There's something similar to the arbitrary ones. There is no good solution, there are less bad ones, which we are trying to promote. But that is another matter. Apart from this immediate measure, for which I agree that it is very bad, but I think that it is, unfortunately, necessary, to move on to something more substantial as soon as possible. As you know, the competence is in the Attica Region. As far as we have been informed by Mr Patoulis, he is preparing an amendment to the Attica waste management plan, which is largely based on recycling, so it will greatly reduce the waste streams in the CFDs and any other treatment instrument. That takes some time, but his pension is under way. We are watching it, and we are, of course, pressing for it to be done in good time, but it really takes some time. If we are too late, you will be absolutely right to come back and say that we did not do anything we could have done. For now, we couldn't do anything else. The region is responsible for the structural problem, it prepares it. When there is one, there will be better information on it than we do. The essence is that it will be a project quite different from the previous one, because it will be based on both recycling and modern processing methods. Madam President, if you allow me to say one last thing. On Monday or Tuesday, an article, which also has a nice photograph, was published in the newspaper "Kathimerini" about a waste incineration plant in Copenhagen. He's in Copenhagen. It's an eighty-foot building. On the one hand, there is an inclined proverb on which a artificial ski trail has been constructed. On top there's a restaurant. All this in Copenhagen. As you know, in Denmark they don't play with these things. So, obviously, these are solutions too. I'm not saying this is going to happen in Attica. For God's sake! I don't know what's gonna happen. It's not my responsibility. However, these too are solutions which are used by countries with proven sensitivity and effectiveness. Moreover, in Vienna there is a waste management centre, a mechanism within Vienna.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u180	And Volos, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u181	I didn't tell you about Volos, because, as you know, it's another matter. We should be happy to discuss this when you ask a relevant question. I referred to the normal waste management at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u182	We too, Minister. My colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u183	Minister, I must admit that the answer is disappointing. It's disappointing, because you said many times that "you're right, you're right, you're right", but what do I do if I'm right? What will the inhabitants of western Athens do if they are right, since you are basically accusing the previous government of expanding the HYTA Race and, ultimately, doing exactly what the previous authority has done? You understand that this is not a serious way of dealing with matters. You also understand that for the last four and a half months you have taken on the government, there should have been a much clearer and substantial plan for the largest, perhaps, issue that concerns our country and that is about waste management. Instead, all we see is essentially communication management of the issue and nothing on the substance. And you can't wash your hands and say 'a, it's the region's fault or it's the region's responsibility, so what is the region doing? What will this government do about this matter? You have responsibility for national planning. You have the power to ratify the regional decision, for which you have delivered an opinion at an earlier stage. The Ministry will just sit down and wait to see what happens? And this solution of the previous regional authority, which, of course, you embrace and you accept, I tell you and you know it is too limited of time. What's next? You told us it would be a temporary solution. But, for sixty years now, this is what we are hearing: "It is a temporary matter, HYTA is a temporary one, it is a temporary one." And we still have HYTAS. So, as I say, unfortunately, I am not covered and we are not covered by your specific answer. Unfortunately, we are only seeing a communication way of dealing with the government, but, it seems, the region is also on the periphery. In communication especially, the region is amazing! So, as I told you, we will insist. We will also insist on parliamentarians and, in every possible way, in order to assume your responsibility and to be directly addressing this issue, as is happening throughout the world in environmentally sound ways and not in pandemics and extensions to the existing HYTADs, which is incomprehensible, is tertiary world, is unacceptable and is completely unfair to people and the region of Western Athens, which unfortunately pays a very heavy burden for this reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u185	Thank you. I'm sorry the answer didn't cover you. I repeat: there is at the moment a crucial problem for which we are not responsible and which cannot be tackled structurally in three months - three months has been undertaken by the government, not four and a half. It takes more time, because serious projects are needed, which want to grow and change the management plan of Attica. That's not happening in a day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u186	Again and again change?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u187	Since the previous one was problematic? This will necessarily be done. Is that our fault? I don't want to describe it. It was ineffective, anyway. So these steps must be taken.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u188	Give me a timeline.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u189	In these non-territorial countries they are not treated in months, unfortunately. They need a little time. That's what we're trying to do. If nothing has been done in a reasonable time, then you will have an absolute right to protest. Right now we're between Dog and Harybdis. We choose the least bad. At the same time, however, we do not care what the region, which is responsible, will do. We are, as I told you, in consultation with the region. The regional authorities took over a month and a half ago, so they also need some time. Maybe someone - I know - taking into account the past, thinks that nothing will happen. A reasonable time must be left, however, and then you can protest. At the moment, there is a need for some time. I understand the indignation of the West Attica residents. I fully understand that. And you certainly interpret this indignation, but what else can be done within two months? There must be some steps that need to be taken. In a reasonable time we will be able to discuss this again, and then there will be more data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. And if I may, because I have dealt with this many times, I would really urge you to read the study commissioned by the Municipality of Florida, because it is a very important study, it contains very important elements and you will understand the extent of the area's contamination. I'm sure after that you'll really make the right decisions on the issue of HYTAS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Madam President. We'll do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u192	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-10-18-S1-commons.u193	With the consent of the House at 12.45 p.m., the sitting on Monday, October 21, 2019, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
