ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the special agenda, I have the honour of announcing the following: The Committee on the Rules of Procedure presents its report to the proposal from the President of the Parliament: "To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (FO 51A-104-1997) and Part Parliamentary (FO 106A ́224-1987) as in force" and to the proposal of the President of the Parliamentary Assembly on Parliament and the Republic". The Minister of Culture and Sport, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government - Minister of Economy and Development, the Minister of Home Affairs, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Protection of the Citizen, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Administrative Reconstruction, Migration, Shipping and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, the Deputy Minister of Finance, and the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Labour, Social Security and Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on 22-2-2019: «Committee on Professional Sports and Other Provisions». It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: ‘Company transformations and harmonisation of the legislative framework with the provisions of Directive 2014/55/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on electronic invoicing in public procurement’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Parliament's decisions: A. Discussion and vote, in accordance with Rule 76 of the Constitution and Rule 118 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure: (a) the proposal by the President of Parliament 'To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Government Gazette 51 A/104-1997) and Part A (Government Gazette 106 A II-26-1987), as applicable'; and (b) the proposal by the President of the Parliament, 'Organisation of the Parliamentary Institute for Parliament and Democracy'. B. Approval of the ‘Commission Operating Regulation referred to in Article 3A of Law 3213/2003 - Rules of Procedure of the Special Office for Public Procedural Statements’. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that this Regulation is adopted by this House as it stands. The rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives, if they wish, will be given the floor on the proposals from the President of this House for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u2	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u3	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u4	I would ask you, because tomorrow morning at 11 o'clock, he meets the Management Board of the Parliamentary Institute for Parliamentarianism and Democracy, and he will be announced by the plenary decision, take note of this and if you can accept a proposal from me. The Foundation's Board of Directors has not been aware of these changes. The changes are extensive - you know - they concern its Agency set up under the presidency of Apostle Kaklamanis in 1999 and the Board of Directors are engaged by former Presidents of the Parliament, former Prime Ministers and the current heads of the parties or, if they cannot, by their parliamentary representatives. This is a high level of management of the agency. They should not be offended by this House. In other words, they must not be aware of the changes that have been made to the Foundation since they have been made. It is preferable, because the meeting should be held tomorrow, because there are certain economic end-dates for certain financial matters. We could debate today the two issues which you have announced and the third, which concerns the Agency, at tomorrow's meeting, calling for the opinion of the Board of Directors and then, in the next few days, for us to vote on the Agency. It is also a question of respect from the opposite point of view of insulting and rudeness. We must avoid these. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u5	Mr Loverdo, you did not say that at the Conference of Presidents. Did you find out now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u6	No, I haven't heard now, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u7	As you can see, however, a whole framework has been prepared here. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u8	There is no framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u9	Well, we've heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u10	No, I'm sorry. I have put other issues on which I have been told that it is a matter of plenary. It is therefore a matter for the House to see this issue now and make a decision. Our proposal is specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u11	Mrs Kozobol, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u12	It has been decided to change the Foundation's charter since the summer of 2018. The Scientific Committee and all those involved in these changes have worked intensively. Because within the changes, it is also the change in the way the Foundation's financial control is audited, and in particular the Court of Auditors is subject to preventive and repressive control, and all this was to end until 31-12-2018, we have received an extension of up to 28-2-2019. The change in the statutes must therefore be published in the EC and the work must be carried out. There is no possibility of another postponement. I would also like to say that the members of the Board of Directors are meant not to be offended, because it is not a change that has suddenly been decided. These are changes that have been being prepared, are being discussed since the summer of 2018. That is why we must proceed today, Madam President, and a decision must be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u14	Madam President, with the amendments to the Statute of the House, changes are being made, including very serious, to the functioning of the Foundation's Board of Directors. Until it is completed on the basis of Article 4 of the present Statute, the Board of Directors shall manage the Foundation. Indeed, an administrative board consisting of high-principal political persons, such as the former Presidents of the Parliament, such as the President of the Parliamentary Groups, is incomprehensible not to have taken part in the debate on these amendments and, above all, not to have taken such an initiative from the Board of Directors. Today, indeed, we should also have the views of the Board of Directors, and more importantly, in today's amendments, for example, in Article 5, the Board of Directors which will govern, if these amendments are accepted, is totally decorative, since there is no word'management' for the first time. And it is impressive that this Foundation will have a board of directors which will not run the cases. So I agree with Mr. Loverdo. We should definitely not discuss these changes to the Foundation today and get to know each other tomorrow that the Board of Directors meets, that we have the views. Because I think that more than any other institution in this House, those who are, at least, legitimate politically, are not members of the Board of Directors who are responsible for taking decisions on the administration of this Foundation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u15	Mr Javarra, however, it is the power of the House to vote on this. I'm saying this on the occasion of what you said. To reach agreement on what is going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u16	I said my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u17	In the face of what the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Kozobol, said about deadlines, etc. You didn't make a comment. Neither do you, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u18	That's another matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u19	How's it going to be another matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u20	It's a different matter. You tell me what I think of what Mrs Kozobol said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u21	I say that it was done and those members of the Board of Directors are aware of it. Mr. Giolas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u22	Madam President, what has been said by my fellow Members is a new plea. In the committee which took place last week, no one spoke of the existence and necessity of the outgoing Board of Directors to give an opinion on the changes that are taking place through this draft law. So there is no reason at all. The responsibilities of the Board of Directors are not changed, we have no need and need for the outgoing Board of Directors to legislate. On the other hand, the committees, on a number of occasions with the help of the officials and representatives of the House, have taken a decision and contributed what is needed in order to achieve this great challenge that has indeed been occupied by the House since the summer, as my colleague said, and it must finally be over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u24	I would like to say that we were the only party that we had disagreed with the establishment of this Foundation for Parliament and Democracy and I will explain them later when we enter on the substance. So we know what the changes are and what the overall direction is. I think that this argument that happens if or should not be discussed is of secondary importance. It's none of our business. So go ahead, as you think and find the things you agree to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u26	Madam President, as far as the Foundation is concerned, as we have said at the sitting of the House, we are opposed to the Foundation, its objectives, its fund and its Board of Directors. So whether the debate is taking place today or tomorrow, this is our position. However, I wonder why, when there was no television coverage in the committee, Mr Tragakis and New Democracy - a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - was bewildered with regard to the Foundation, the discussion, the presentation made to us by the President of the Foundation, and now that there is television coverage, he is dragged behind Mr Loverdos who started the subject. Do as you think. We are not interested in the foundations, we are interested in the Greek people you are wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Tragakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u28	I, Madam President, have been interested in the Foundation because it has been carrying out an amazing task since 1999. The Foundation's establishment plan and its Agency have very positive features. We will have to discuss this, but I will agree not today. The issue of the Board of Directors was raised by me in committee and I said that there is a matter for the Board of Directors. In other words, as far as the Board of Directors is concerned, this may not really have a decisive role, because it gives guidelines and controls the Foundation's budget. It is important that I have before me the 1999 Regulation, which says that 'the Foundation is in charge'. And when it says "the institution is run by the Board of Directors", it means that the Board of Directors must be aware of. Tomorrow morning the Foundation has a Board of Directors. It will become the Foundation's Board of Directors this morning, they will be aware of all this, and we, tomorrow afternoon, will be able to meet again at the same time to discuss it. We're getting ahead of them on dates. We have already received an extension by February 28th, we will be able to get another extension, as long as you want, one month, ten days, so that the Foundation's budget can be updated, because the end was December 31st, 2018. My proposal is therefore to discuss the two parts now that we can discuss them. We will be discussing the Foundation's Agency tomorrow afternoon after the Board of Directors has been informed. The Governing Council may deliver opinions. The views of the Board of Directors are not binding on the House, which legislates and determines how the Foundation will be administered. And from there, we can discuss it tomorrow afternoon to close the matter, so that we don't have any disagreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u29	With all due respect to the members of the Board of Directors, if you insist that this should not be done, I shall put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u30	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u31	We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u32	The issue of the end dates raised by Mrs Kozobol goes beyond, in the very extreme case and by plenary on Thursday, where there is no legislative work. One of the prisoners. Secondly, Mr Papatheodorou had expressed our reservations at the meetings. Thirdly, can it be foreseen within the Agency, the one we are going to vote on, that the Foundation's Board of Directors does not control its operation and that we have not asked them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u33	So it is actually your disagreement, not that they have not been informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u34	If that is not understood by a colleague or a colleague as an insult, what are we going to vote on then? If you do not understand it as an insult, there is no reason to vote. Do what you want. But since tomorrow your President will be one of the former Presidents to take part, he would not want the plenary to bring him, without asking him, a political choice to change an Agency. Is there any other feasibility and you don't want to ask them? It's the wrong thoughts. I don't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u35	No, I wonder, Mr. Loverdos, why do you put the matter now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u36	If you decide not to listen to this request, then in our speeches we will change our level of debate on the Rules of Procedure of the House and go on to make a normal level of conflicting political parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u37	So you're threatening now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u38	But you must understand that we are telling you right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u39	Very good, we understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u40	I personally am not in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I do not understand anything at all and it is good for you to speak clearly to hear them and the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u41	I say it for the Greek people, not for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u42	Okay, good. The President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u43	I am sorry, because a practice that we had not used to in previous years, lately - fortunately today, not invested in the phrase that the country is in a democratic deflection - comes in the sense of surprise. I am really sorry, because we discussed two days last week in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and this was not a point of order, that is, a point of order, with regard to the Foundation's Board of Directors. These processes have been made known to everyone and sent to everyone for a few weeks now. This process would have been over for some time, if there were no intervening issues relating to the Prespecies, the Constitutional Review, etc. Some of the former Presidents of this House have even made a few remarks. Some of them were incorporated or taken into consideration. I want to be very clear. I consider it absolutely essential and dangerous for this House to be a quasi-ownerial concept that may exist in the minds of some people. I am not concerned with this matter. I would like to say, in other words, that the blockade in this matter is totally unacceptable. The Foundation has now become a quite large organisation that would have wanted its modernisation for years and at the level of statutes, organograms, functions and economics. I mean, it's an excellent process, Mr. Loverdos. It is extremely important to deal with the issues that are mentioned within, as far as the Court of Auditors is concerned, in terms of preventive and repressive control and in terms of a truly modern establishment plan for the Foundation, which - concisely - is doing a very good job. The Foundation has numerous activities and these are not generally and vaguely done by some employees, when we come to this Chamber, to subdue prices for how well they work. They shall become under the day-to-day functioning and administration of the Executive Committee and of the Executive Directors of the Scientific Committee. There has been no change in the Foundation over the last four years. I say it for some people who were trained to operate only with "equivalent" people. There was no change in the Foundation. All people have remained, helped and helped, both at scientific committee level and everywhere. In fact, the previous Secretary-General was given an extension and after the end of his term of office, he then changed with Mrs Maronite. There has been nothing happening either at the operating level, programme, public presence of the institution, which creates a problem, creates a tension, how much more to act in favour of the suggestion of Mr Loverdos, who has almost threatened that if the conversation continues, he will be at another level. I challenge this other level because I know very well about the Foundation and I also know very well what it has tried to gather and what the current management of the Foundation is all about in all respects, and from the economic point of view and from the point of view of how the functions, the contracts of the Foundation were structured, its everyday life. And with the help of all sides, an excellent work is being produced. I do not know whether or not I will even be a Member of this Parliament or be a former President of this House or participate with any role in the Foundation's Board of Directors. But I want to be very direct. The work is produced by 99% on the basis of the general guidelines, which the Foundation Board gives once a year and the adoption of the budget by the Executive Board, by the respective President of Parliament, by the Scientific Committee. This is not a board of directors - and the colleagues, who also represent the leaders of the parties, who come there and have all the information in good time - who keep track of the procedures and give direction to them on a daily basis and in this sense remove certain responsibilities. Nothing is removed. That is what we have received from us and we still want to streamline them - to use a politically correct expression - is extremely difficult. Let me just mention to you, for example, - perhaps you do not know - the responsibility which the Grammos Foundation has for the National Reconciliation Park, and how difficult it is, and what interventions must be made there and at costs and with care, so that it can work. Fortunately, for now, nothing has happened in Grammos or elsewhere. So there is no point in being left behind and consulted under the Rules of Procedure. That is what has been done in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. We brought the suggestions, the suggestions came, and they had shared too early. Anyone who thinks he has some ownership perception, because there was a president a few years ago here, or because I am a President now - I do not have it, now that I am President - let him write down. Most former colleagues often write very good spiritual work in public. We respect them too much either way. They write, write books and have seats, even at the Academy. I believe that, as has been demonstrated by the Minutes, they are extremely happy, because the Foundation, which first set up this little port, is now working at another level which receives the joint recognition of all the spiritual institutions of the country, of public opinion, bodies, of the tens of thousands of people who come here and are toured by the reports that are being carried out. I do not understand whether there is a fundamental problem, based on the way you put it, namely economic dismantling - I want to be very open - to manipulate administrative manipulation, to be politically wrong to what the Foundation does. And in any case, if these were there, we were here every day all these years, to talk about them. And I would like to talk to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. So I do not accept that there is either a point of order or a point of order involved. That is why I would ask that the procedure be continued today. Anyone who wants to say things about the substance, say, and I reserve a catalytic response, Mr Loverdo, which you may not know, because you have been informed by your colleague, Mr Papatheodorou, or by other factors, which in any case do not have the first word in this House or in the Foundation. They may have a general view, sometimes also abusive, which has been taking place toward us in recent years. These have not been answered and there is no chance of them being answered. However, the reality of the Foundation, because you are also a university and you are monitoring the evolution of the Foundation, is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u44	I'm part of the foundation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u45	Of course, you're part of it. Last year, did you have any problem with what was presented? Has anything been recorded?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u46	It's a matter of rudeness... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u47	Is it a question of rudeness that a great effort was made to streamline situations, harmonise and finally establish a regulation - which we did not even know existed - nor did you who knew it - to get a class into the establishment plans, to strengthen this effort? Is that a rude thing? I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, this is a fundamental analysis. I'll talk to you about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u49	But, in essence, it is your objection and it is very clear. It is not a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u50	It's deeply political!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u51	Because it is deeply political, Mr Loverdos, I, too, say that anyone who has to say political things will tell the House. He will not say this in closed session, when we are once a year as a Board of Directors, just to write matters in the Minutes. I would therefore ask those of you who are already involved - how much more so you, both from the New Democracy and from elsewhere, because they are not the heads of the parties, reasonably what they are - to say here before the Greek people and to the only body responsible, in the final analysis, which is Parliament. If you want, in other words, there's no regulation, just like there was no...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u52	Ultimately. I'm talking about the last.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u53	The last analysis is the Committee on the Rules of Procedure in two meetings, the Executive Committee and the President of Parliament. This is the last. The Board of Directors annually approves the budget, which has not become a few months ago, and participates in the formulation of the general programme, events, publications, etc. No such objects have been placed here. It is another subject of the Board of Directors tomorrow. It does not go into these issues. The Foundation is not run by its Board of Directors, nor by the way. The Foundation's Board of Directors has never raised a matter concerning the way in which the Foundation operates. It enters into programming, accounts and financial data. If anyone has participated, even once, in the Foundation's Board of Directors, he knows that. I wonder: on this matter, on this agenda, what are you asking the Management Board to do tomorrow? That's what this is about. That is why I am surprised by a surprise, which obviously has a more general political planning, which I cannot understand, nor am I obliged to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u54	So, as far as the incident is concerned, we shall proceed to a vote by means of a vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u55	Madam President, we are saying 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u56	Madam President, we too are saying 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u57	I too, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u58	I would ask you, therefore, to postpone the debate on the second point. [[Accepting the postponement of today's sitting]] Evidently the few of them were raised. So I think now that we can get to the debate. Mrs Kozobol has the floor for five minutes, which is the rapporteur on the SYRIZA side.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. The debate which has really taken place raises questions and I cannot understand why. I would like to point out that for three and a half years the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has regularly changed the whole code concerning its staff and its management, it has collected the scattered, vague, invisible, hidden provisions, made them a regulation, which is in fact codified and ready to be adopted and transparent. I wonder why, at the last two meetings, there is this concern. I am also impressed that no such issue has arisen in two meetings in the committee. Thirdly, I would like to remind you that the regulation, the Foundation's Agency, has been put on the agenda before the previous sitting, before the vote of confidence in the House. And then the two themes were postponed and only one was introduced. As a suggestion, that is to say, we, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, have at least one month in our hands. I am not talking about the discussions that have taken place since the summer of 2018. I therefore think this whole process is pretextful and certainly something else is hidden. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing two issues. The main thing, however, is that of the Statute of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and the Republic. In 1997, as you know, it was decided to set up the legal person of the Parliament with a view to spreading the principles of Parliament and of the Republic. In 1999, the establishment of the Foundation's Agency, which was first operational in 2004, was passed. The Foundation, with its action, contributes to the extrovert and openness of the House in society, thus strengthening the citizens' ties with the House and its work. This aim is implemented through the creation and provision of a high quality of cultural and cultural work in society. In this context, the Foundation is organizing exhibitions, events, educational programmes and publishing. The Foundation also draws up or outlines research programmes and studies and collaborates with institutions in Greece and abroad for the implementation of actions related to its work. In July 2018, with a view to modernising and ensuring the smooth and transparent functioning of the Foundation’s finances, an amendment to the Foundation’s Statute was decided. And I shall refer to the following briefly. It was predicted that the Foundation's expenditure was covered by the Court's prudential audit and it was also laid down that the Foundation's accounting records were subject to the Court of Auditors' repressive control, which is annual and is carried out at the end of each financial year. Although initially planned - in 1999, set up by the Foundation - its internal rules of procedure were never drawn up, while its economic function and administrative structure were in a problematic and unclear context. Thus, a modern organization of the Foundation of the Parliament was drawn up and codified, in a single coherent text, which illustrates its current image and safeguards its future dynamics. It includes, for the first time, the rules of procedure of staff - i.e. disciplinary law, staff situation, etc. - which is detailed and easily practicable. It reappoints the Foundation's institutions, which are the President, the Board of Directors. And here, let me say, the responsibilities of the Board of Directors are not changed. Nowhere! I don't understand why that concern. It is all the institutions as they were - I do not repeat them, because I do not have the time - only the scientific committee, which was already working, but had not been institutionalised. The selection process of heads is defined and fifty-five organic staff are recommended and broken down by level of education. I would like to say here that there was no number of organic positions. It could have been an unlimited number. Specific issues of the Foundation's staff are dealt with, such as recruitment are carried out by the Executive Committee and cover organic posts, and specific conditions are laid down for staff secondments, duration, etc., qualifications, staff remuneration, working hours. I would like to say here that, because it was unclear, it was difficult for workers to compensate for their overtime, which has so far been unregulated. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want two more minutes, Madam President, because I will not have time to say it. The disciplinary and disciplinary measures, in accordance with Disciplinary Law and the appropriate application of the rules of Criminal Law and Criminal Procedure and the disciplinary procedure, shall also be laid down. Finally, the conditions for the procurement and procurement procedure are laid down. In addition to the Foundation for Parliament and the Republic, we also have more amendments in part to the second part, in which, with proposed additions, the reduction of posted officials from 2015 to the offices of former Presidents of the Parliament and former Prime Ministers shall not apply where these persons are MPs or MEPs. It is also proposed that a further reduction in posted staff of the above persons should be proposed by another parliamentary term. The responsibilities of the Department of Parliamentary Archives shall be redefined. Here basically, there was no specific department and it's made. The provisions on the structure of the Office of the Special Secretary of Parliament are streamlined without increasing the posts of workers. Finally, it is proposed that two offices should be set up in the television and radio stations of the House. The parliamentary part is added to Article 41b, which updates Parliament's relations with the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Tragakis, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated twenty-three students and three educational attendants from the 3rd Municipal School of Arida Pellas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Tragakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u61	I'm going to need more time, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u62	Five minutes is your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u63	No, no. You'll put ten minutes, Madam President. As much as I'm entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u64	We also have questions. We've got a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u65	I'll start with thanks. I am used to it every time I speak in plenary, especially when I speak of the Rules of Procedure. My thanks go first to the staff of this House, which I very much appreciate for their participation in all events and for the fact that they are the mirrors of this House and have been unjustly targeted because our political differences target the officials of this Parliament. And to be clear, I would like to say at the outset that what we discussed in the Rules of Procedure was also with the consent of the Association of Officials of the Parliament. I would also like to thank all the Foundation's Secretary-General-General. Everyone has accomplished the work that they were given, they've got a little bit of it. I shall now refer to the Foundation Agency. Since June 9, 1999, published in the Official Journal of the Government, the Foundation was revised in 2004 by Mrs Benaki, who made it five members of the Executive Board. In 2018, we did not take an initiative in Parliament's plenary, which had to be done, for the Foundation's finances. Because the Foundation now, like the House, has the Court of Auditors' preventive and repressive control. It's something that had to be done and done. That makes sense. Let me say something about the Agency. The Agency is very detailed. In fact, you've called him meticulous. He's got a lot of details. He could be more ropeless, simpler. However, it has some positive elements that we had at times all agreed to be once. For their Rules of Procedure, we have been talking about the Foundation since 2005 if I am not wrong. We have always said 'When will we do the Agency'? And it became the Agency. The Agency has a peculiarity. He is a legal person under private law, is governed by rules of a legal person governed by public law and is financed by parliament. I mean, he's a hybrid. Three parts depend on the functioning of the Agency. I am going to talk about the Board of Directors now, because this has been the case, I have put it. In accordance with the institution's provision in 1999, - starts this way - "The Foundation is managed by the Board of Directors", which means that the Board of Directors also has administrative powers? But if we look at paragraph 4 again, you will see that there it says that it gives directions, because it makes sense, former Prime Ministers and former Presidents of Parliament, that they cannot deal with administrative or executive matters. It's giving directions. That is my objection if the Board of Directors were asked to give guidance on the Foundation's operating organisation. It is an issue that needs to be addressed. The children from Arias are still on the table, and I would like to say that the Foundation - I fundamentally disagree - is the mirror of the House. He's the biggest advertiser. Hundreds of thousands of children visit the House every year and the Foundation and the exhibitions that the Foundation is doing. These are our best advertisers. At one time, I was in Mr. Voutsi's place and presided over. Several times, I find - even now - on the road people who had come here ten, fifteen years ago in Parliament and say how nice it was that they had seen the Foundation's report and also the House itself. Now, as far as the Executive Committee is concerned, the Executive Committee, in fact, has become a Member of the European Parliament. There is an objection to how it is run, how it is defined. The Secretary-General of the Foundation shall be one of the three fifths of the Conference of Presidents. How did it work in the Agency in the first place? Of the three fifths were both other participants in the three-member committee, but then it was expanded. The new members, in other words, are the chairman of the Scientific Committee. I will say here about the Scientific Committee that has been set up. The Scientific Committee, which is now working, if I am not wrong, is made up of thirteen people. Here it says it will be from nine to seventeen. My question to the committee was why should he be so diligent from nine to seventeen and why should there be such a long distance? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will speak ten minutes. The answer was - and I found it logical - that the participants are men of scientific prestige, people who actually offer both the reports and the publications of the House, people who operate and hold a meeting at least once a month, that is, they do about twelve meetings a year and their remuneration is 100 euros. So you realize that there is no economic incentive. It's a matter of offering. Why would it be seventeen? How many should they be? Be fifteen? Thirteen is now. Seventeen is the maximum. I asked, why would the maximum seventeen? The answer was - and that makes sense - that we are now preparing for the two hundred years from Palaggenesia and we will need about two more people to participate in the Foundation's Scientific Committee. That makes sense, too. I would also like to refer to the institution in terms of the many sections. I made a note of it myself. It's got lots of sections. He has thirty-two employees, so you know - I'm going to go to Article 22 - the Foundation and three seconded workers from the House, who now have one left. Is that enough? Yeah, it's okay. We'll see. I'll tell Article 22. But there are many departments, six departments for thirty-two employees, let them become thirty-five or thirty-six. I asked for unification. For example, here in the House, the Director-General is also economic and administrative. So let the department and the administrative and financial services are also in the institution. It's a proposal I made here. I will now come to Article 22, which has been put into effect. As far as Article 22 is concerned, when I saw the number fifty-five, my first question was: why are the fifty-five and where are the fifty-five? What are you going to do? Are you going to hire fifty-five people? I got an answer. For example, within the fifty - five are the thirty - two who already serve in the foundation. They are thirty - two people serving at the foundation. In fact, I asked the president and asked him willingly. I say to him: 'President, are you going to make appointments?' "No," he tells me. "Let's need one, two, three, four people to get another." I keep this commitment from the President. And then what did we do for the employees at the foundation? There was a great injustice, and Mrs Kozobol mentioned it in relation to overtime. There is a group of workers in the institution, for example the tour guides, who work almost 12 hours a day to tour our children and work at 12 hours a week. That's very important. That was where all the employees took twenty hours. There is now a division of overtime in this regard. Now, I have talked about preventive and repressive control and I think it has to be done and done. I shall now refer to the second part as regards, firstly, the former Prime Ministers and former Presidents of the Parliament - the fact that he is transferred from one period to the IZ - the post-mortem officials, who of course have, but some are removed from them. Look at that. A former Prime Minister, for example, has other activities and many activities. That makes sense. I think it makes sense - and there are not many of them. Don't think there's a lot of them. They're about fifteen people, all of them. It concerns former Prime Ministers and former Presidents of Parliament. Of course, as I wish to be honest, it is not about Mr Voutsi or the President-in-Office who was previously in office, because that will be the case after two parliamentary periods. That's the reality, and that's the truth. But I want to say something, Mr President, about the library. We need to make a special regulation on the library and we need to make, say, a division of responsibilities. This division of powers should be an allocation of responsibilities, which should be done with the servants there in the library of the House, because the library of the House is a treasure. Hold that. Apart from being a treasure, an effort is made to ensure that Benacio Library comes, for example, the Tsouterou file or the Papaderiou Library, to accept donations. You know that too many people leave their library or archive donations to the House. Therefore, it must be accepted by sharing competences in the library itself. That is why I am also talking about the division of responsibilities. I have two comments on the Parliamentary Channel. I agreed with Mr Pafilis in the committee on this matter. In other words, there must be an interparliamentary committee dealing with the Parliamentary Channel for the Programme. I think you should accept that, Mr President. It's nothing. We'll all agree. We always agree on some when there is consensus. I will close with what the Committee on European Affairs and the Directorate-General for International Relations of the House has proposed, which has been put into practice. They were proposals that we had been working on from a long time ago. I had served several years as President and European affairs. I had participated in five COSACs and had presided over one. One request, which we have always had at that time, was Article 13. In other words, in the last COSAC that I was chairing, I had given Article 13 a moment ago. I will tell you what Article 13 relates to. It is the course of monetary and economic union every six months, that is to say the report every six months. Another innovation in this matter of international relations is that the Commissioner, appointed by our country, will now be heard by the European Parliament's Committee on European Affairs. It makes sense. Of the forty-three participants, the twenty-seven countries of the Commissioner are heard. So why should we not listen to the Commissioner whom we will send to the European Union? In principle, I agree. On some articles I may be reluctant to hear the President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, let's start at the end. We have no objection to the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. There is no objection from us in this regard. With regard to the other, the second issue, which relates to the functioning of the House and especially to the Committee on European Affairs, is in agreement. That is a good idea for the Commissioner's hearing. It can be done without any provision. If there was, even better. And here we have no objections. But, Mr President, I am obliged to repeat what I have said. I'll start over. If anyone can claim that I was not understood when I raised matters of courtesy and non-injuriousness, he does not understand. But for the needs of the parliamentary work, let me repeat them. There is an administrative board, also maintained by the Agency with its current amendment, since 1999, made up of high-ranking political people and the one that the House has chosen as its President-in-Office. A former Prime Minister, who the Greek people chose to be the first political person in the country, thinks of him as a person of high political prestige. The leaders of the political parties, elected through democratic processes, are to be understood as persons of high political prestige. They form the board of directors of the Parliamentary Institute for Parliamentary and Democracy. You can't, when you're a president of this House, insult them. How do you insult them? When you entrust them with some tasks with this organization, you don't ask about the changes that affect their responsibilities. Why don't you ask them? You mean, as faces of high-level political authority, to do what? To be there? To come to a meeting which sets out from three to a minimum number of meetings of the Management Board, when you state that this Governing Council is directing the functioning of the Foundation and that gives the Executive Committee the basic guidance to function, but also to the Scientific Committee? Is it reasonable to want to meet once? And the prediction corresponds to the reality. Once the Governing Council met in 2018. Why are you insulting these people? Maybe - to get into the essence now - because you remove them operating possibilities like the one I said before? In view of this article of the draft law providing for appointments? And I want to read it. Mr. Tragakis, you're very diligent. This article - Article 22 - ends in paragraph 4. After announcing fifty-five staff posts, in paragraph 4, the vacancies shall be filled on the basis of the needs of the institution, to be recruited shall be recommended by the Secretary-General of the institution, who shall bear the matter and the others. Why should today's'majority-majority' guarantee be one opinion, one word, one assurance that we will not be hiring? Didn't they raise poster employees? Didn't they multiply poster employees? They did it! Why don't you worry about this? Tomorrow, at the meeting of the management board of the institution, these will be heard by previous Presidents, by members of the management of the institution. Why not have a harmonised operation taken place over the previous period, so that these may be avoided? The President asks: 'Do you say anything heavier?'. That's what I'm implying. When I made my procedural proposal, that was what I implied, not cosmogenic, Mr President, situations and symptoms, but certain political objections that may exist, which you should have heard. There is a matter relating to bureaucracy. As I read it and as anyone takes a look at it, it is a demonic organism which is reflected in the regulatory provisions of its operation. Is the Foundation for Parliament and Democracy an Foundation requiring such rules of operation? Is that a class, Mrs. Kozobol? Is that a class, or is it red tape? And you are not telling me - perhaps, of course, that your experiences have been these last four years - we have had a week in plenary, as we are doing now, to change Parliament's Rules of Procedure? That's an exaggeration. It is an exaggeration, but it is not related to the arrangements on the subject. Where there are many regulations, many provisions, many regulations, there is an institutional mess. This has been taught by the Greek bureaucracy for two centuries. Do we have any colleagues here and colleagues who haven't taken it? Do they not hear what the Greek society says about pluralism and bureaucracy? They should have listened. This regulation is the model of so-called institutional guarantees that lead to completely bureaucratic conditions. Furthermore, as far as the institution's expenditure is concerned, it has tripled, as I have been informed, over the last few years for activities, for which, in any case, we will also be discussing tomorrow or whenever we are given the opportunity. They're not so necessary. In any case, you tell me to tell you about political orientation. I don't want to make such comments. Mr President, however, the report on King Ferraeus, on this great personality of Hellenism, outside, also has a whole column with the King Ferraus ECON. Why don't you have an anti-FOD? I don't understand. If you wanted to talk about political orientation as well. But I don't want to take the conversation there. There are other indications that I could mention as an attempt to rediscover the story. But, anyway, my party, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Loverdo, it doesn't have a King Ferrade for the EC. You read it somewhere and you say it...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u69	Please, I want to hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u70	You read this somewhere...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u71	Fine. It's out! It's out!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u72	You're lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u73	And the anti-digit fight... to put all the anti-digit organizations in. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u74	I'm telling you, you're lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u75	Please, I'm never lying!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u76	Now you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u77	I may be wrong, but I never lie. Go outside and see them!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u78	You look at them!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u79	You look at them!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u80	You'll hear them in a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u81	And I could say more about the political orientation, since you want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u82	You'll hear them then. You're fierce, you know that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u83	As I could say what you are planning and listening to it from the Parliamentary Channel.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u84	You're short, Mr. Loverdos!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u85	Come on, PASOK!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u86	I say, shorten up!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u87	I'll be briefed. I'll use one or two more minutes. You did this for a previous colleague. I don't call it the same, but a couple more minutes I'd like to. Besides, my last minute...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u88	Yeah, but there's no custom here to talk to anyone as much as they want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u89	You do not, Madam President, obviously like what I am saying. That is why you are making a point of order. Otherwise, you'd let me say one more minute of my last words.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u90	Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u91	We've heard from the Parliament's Channel how you're organising the Teenage Parliament. The first thing we thought about and came to our minds is a partyisation that will be passed by this poorly-considered political system in the country and in schools. That's no use. But we did not intend to put issues of the institution's political orientation in this Chamber. We intended to tell you: 'Listen first and then legislate'. Are you coming to say that the legislative competence belongs to the House? Thank you so much! We knew that. We wanted to tell you, however, that what has precedented and created the Greek Parliament, as you found it, was formed with efforts at the expense of some people. I want to refer here to Mr Kaklamani and that is what I should like to close. If you see a little - it is no time now and will be seen as a criticism of today's majority that is in part, but it is not - how the staff of this House have been structured, you will see that despite the giant change that took place over the Kaklamani presidency, 11 years old, where the parliament acquired new buildings, acquired the infrastructure it has today, acquired the opportunity to accommodate in its garage so many people and to relieve the center of Athens of problems, it has acquired institutional functions that it has never had, a parliament that was reformed in eleven years Kaklamani used a hundred more people. Today we have, since you received, plus four hundred, as far as I'm concerned. I do not think, Mr President, that you benefit from this debate. I think if you had shown elementary courtesy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u92	You keep lying. You'll get a lot of tough answers!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u93	You'll tell them as long as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u94	Who told you about the plus four hundred?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u95	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u96	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u97	Understand? You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u98	A liar, Mr President, is it you and put down your finger.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u99	You're a liar! You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u100	Put your finger down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u101	You do it on purpose.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u102	Put your finger down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u103	I'll do it the way I want my finger.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u104	I've never seen you like this before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u105	I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u106	I've never seen you like this before. As it is now, tomorrow at the institution's meeting you will hear these words, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u107	Easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u108	And from no one you have the right to remove the reason. Be President of all Greeks and not President of your party. Here, you have been honoured with the vote of colleagues to be President of the three hundred. You choose, be President of the majority - Minority. That's your thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Loverdo, you filled it out in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Poppa, will you speak? I thought you said you weren't going to join us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u112	Who said that, Madam President? Madam President, can we talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u113	Yeah. There's a turbulence. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u114	There is a turmoil of the 'democratic arc'. I shall start by referring to Rule 1 and Article 3(2) of the proposed amendment by Mr Voutissouz in Part II of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Article 1 concerns posted officials' posts in former President of the Parliament, former Heads of Parliament, former Vice-Presidents, former Prime Ministers, former President of Parliament's Groups. As would have been the case and as it was adopted on 10 November 2015, that is, before the proposed amendment, before Mr Voutsi, since the beginning of the next parliamentary term, of the IH' Parliamentary Period, what would have happened? The six posts in offices of former Parliament Presidents would be reduced to three. The five posts in offices of former Prime Ministers would be reduced to three. One place in offices of former government Vice-Presidents would be completely abolished. One place in offices of former Parliamentary Groups would also be completely abolished. With the amendment proposed and combined with the phrase 'for two parliamentary periods after the end of its term of office', the reduction or abolition will not apply to current, but also to previous Presidents of the Parliament, Prime Ministers, Vice-Presidents of the Government, President of Parliament's Groups from the next parliamentary term, but will maintain these posters, without reduction or abolition for two other parliamentary periods. In addition, together with paragraph 2 of Article 3 of the proposal, those carrying these qualities after the end of the next two parliamentary periods, if they are still MEPs or MEPs, continue to hold in their offices, as an ex-wife, the posts of posted officials, thus burdening Parliament's budget, that is to say, in the final analysis, by burdening the economicly kneeled Greek people. One more facilitator of the "first time left" in his system of lawlessness and in his work, which has become elected to vote for betrayal agreements, such as the transfer of our Macedonian name to the state structure of Skopje. We are talking about a Parliament which since 2010 - not to mention the entire sinful post-government period of the climax - is voting memorials about the impoverishment of the Greek people and the country's total dependence. Recently, it came out on the news, published everywhere: 65% of the people with difficulty are walking and 30% of the people are living in poverty and misery, in order to maintain the economic and political nomenclada, to which both SYRIZA and the New Democracy belong. Apart from all other things, they are united by the fact that they are also agreed to the amendment to be discussed. We heard them a while ago. They are the same, SYRIZA and New Democracy, which coup d'étatically, with photographic medals, have ruled out the country's third political power, the Golden Dawn, than to have a vice president in the Bureau of Parliament, as it is entitled. They are the same who have cut out state funding in a party that does not owe banks like them. They are, after all, the ones who have ruled the Golden Dawn off state television. We don't get touched by these manipulations. You, however, are exposed to the eyes of the Greek people, who sees how you divide the Greeks into 'yours' and to citizens who are excluded and despised, and that is why in the elections that come, both in the European elections and in the parliamentary elections, whenever they become them, the Greek people will punish you. I read from the Minutes of the House - which I am tabling today - the following. He says Mr. Voutsis, in reply to me, "You must all know, because he is co-responsible, we all do this together...". What do you say, Mr. Voutsi? What responsibility? Which ones? Does Golden Dawn have the responsibility to conclude the country with the Memorandums? For the categorisation of your parties, SYRIZA and the New Democracy, which have been revealed, together and interacting in this Chamber? Collaborating in a common struggle, an anti-grass fight against the People's Nationalist movement? So no co-responsibility, Mr Voutsi, at least as far as the Golden Dawn is concerned. No co-responsibility with all of you who have been self-sufficient is called 'democratic' or 'constitutional arc'. So the movement of national resistance tells you a great 'no'. In fact, Mr. Voutsis continued to do so and I will read it exactly as he was in the Commission's minutes: “...that there were very discreet pressures, objections, from the point of view of former Presidents, Heads of State or Government, especially from those who are doing work, that is, writing books, are at the Academy. I don't want to name them exactly. They are present and active, they are present, which in recent times and before - I repeat, discreetly - they have raised the question that they want help, they keep their office, they do a job and a public one. I also mean people who are not yet parliamentarians." [[At this point the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned version of the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] First, Mr. Voutsi, why not name them? Do you mean Mr. Papademos, Merkel's Memorial Room, who your party was supposedly opposed and is now mocking? Do you mean the political killers of the Greek people, George Papandreou, Samaras, Simitis? Do you want to extend the term of office of the retired officials, of their sponge balls? Secondly, Mr Voutsi, this is very touching for the authors who are doing work and for the public and for the public. Help them, help them. To help these exes, Papandreou, Samaras, Simitis. We were really moved. We're very moved. Only the lights that didn't come out to clean windows! Are you serious, Mr. President? But you'll tell me what I'm asking? After all, what do you care? Marble is not paid for by you, by the Greek people. At this point, I would mention that immediately after Mr Voutsi's position - I read from the same Minutes of 21 February - Mr Tragakis, premiering SYRIZA's proposal, with a 'patient' opposition attitude as demonstrated by the liberal right of Mr Mitsotakis, said on account of some things, which we have heard today, but I will read them out of the committee's minutes, as he said immediately after Mr Voutsis: 'It is clear that the change is clear and cannot be called into question'. Yes, Mr Tragakis, it is clear, in the case of the Rules of Procedure of the House today, and it cannot be called into question that you are the same shop. You are co-responsible for the misery and betrayal of the Greek people. You have proved this today after your speech in this seemingly painless debate, a debate on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Pappa, please complete. Your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u116	Just a minute, Madam President. And the last one talked about four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u117	Mr Tragakis is responsible for doing so ten minutes' 'de facto'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. So is today's additional rehearsal of the great convergence you're preparing? As a whole, for reasons of politics, but also for reasons of substance, we are putting ourselves in a position to vote 'no'. We vote "no" for both the institution and for its purposes, its direction, its wealthy fund, its board of directors, the legal person of private law, and the pediatrics he does by bringing all the students and all the schools here daily. We say 'no', therefore, because we are on the side of the people, whose overwhelming majority opposes the assignment of our sacred name, the name of our Macedonia. Madam President, you too should listen to the symbols. Macedonia is one and it is Greek!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u119	Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor. As far as I can see, there's no speaker, so you'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u120	Yes, Madam President. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We will talk in particular about the amendments that are being made in the first part and in the second part. In Article 1, as in Article 3(2), we do not agree. We have said so in committee too. There is no reason to maintain such a number of posters to former Presidents of the Parliament, Vice-Presidents, elected Prime Ministers, party leaders, etc. The argument that they are doing some scientific work etc., in our view, is inconsistent, because there are other people who may be more remarkable - and they are - doing scientific work everywhere and who are not supported by anyone but by their own powers and possibly by various groups that support them or other institutions. So we do not agree with that. Now Article 5 on the channel of Parliament has also been discussed in committee. Two committees are set up here. One is to control the programme and the other is technical. We have raised and raised the question that the channel of the Parliament cannot be in the jurisdiction of the President, whoever it is, and the parties in the House - because it is reasonable that the parties in this House should have no reason and that they should not, in the end, be able to express any comments unless something happens wrong with official announcements. Of course, we realise that it will not be easy to change the direction, but at least that there can be an elementary control, that is to say, to have an opinion on the programme and, of course, on how it is being carried out. Because, after all, the programme - and let us leave the various democratic terminology here - is decided by the government majority through the chairman or other committees. That is why we are saying that we need to have a debate in committee on how this can be carried out. There will be some suggestions. Now what no-one is talking about, of course, and that makes sense, is about Article 6, where some changes are made to the Committee on European Affairs. This is the end of hypocrisy regarding the European Union's line, which has been working on for many years, which is more or less what it says. It says that we also have to make participa tions in the Member States so that there is a collective process and all these stories that are a great mockery towards the Greek people. They are a great mockery not only because the correlation of powers is very specific in all national parliaments, but also because the European Union has in its old shoes written referendums of peoples whole. They're able to get them to vote every year until they get the result they want. So that is a pretext, and indeed some people are also impressed, that we will be discussing it, that the Committee on European Affairs will be informed - first of all it is the duty of each government to inform it - and that we will be broadening and discussing the annual programmes, we will be able to set up negotiating lines. Who are you saying all this to? What negotiating lines? Each government will negotiate as it wants, and secondly, the European Commission will do what it wants, as it has done all these years, and will do what is in the interest of European capital. We are again saying that such structures, such as the creation of the European Union, are the dictatorship of the European monopolies. It doesn't change or become progressive. It will get worse, and it does not prove that because we call it a proclamation, but it proves it its own course over the years. So it was at the beginning and it gets worse, because it is intended on the one hand to serve the interests of the European monopolies, and on the other, of course, to take part either as the European Union or as large imperialist countries, in the sharing, redistribution of markets, interventions, wars, etc. One more thing. We will, he says, call on the candidate European Commissioner to discuss this. So what? He'll come, he'll tell what his positions are, and the government will appoint him. It's a mockery against the Greek people. Of course, it is also a question of speeding up the incorporation of European directives, which are all polite. They have broken not only Greece, but also all the European peoples. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, you will give me two minutes of tolerance. Therefore, we do not agree and vote against them. In some articles we have no problem with Article 2, with the clarifications given, Article 3 and Article 4. As far as the Foundation of Parliament is concerned, we must be clear - and I do not know if it was corrected in the report - that the Communist Party of Greece did not agree in 1996 and 1999. He was against the formation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u121	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u122	That's the way it is, Mr. Tragakis, who's older. Why didn't we agree? Because the issues handled by the Parliamentary Institute for Parliamentary and Democracy are wider, they are social, they are political, they concern issues of international relations. In other words, there are many aspects of the political, social and international relations of the country as a whole. We want to speak clearly and to know about it by the Greek people. There can be no consensus, neither can there be a common component in parties that have very different policies, nor can there be compromise on certain things. Of course, if it is a secondary object, there may be no conflict and there may be a tolerance. But in the overall direction - and I can say too many examples, even now - we have radical disagreements and cannot be of the House, but it will be of a government majority. In order to do so, I will give you an example: on the issues of the European Union, on NATO issues, on the issues of imperialist wars, there is a consensus on all urban parties in favour of the European Union, in favour of NATO, as traditionally New Democracy and KINAL, and now SYRIZA is going through the latest developments. So what common consensus do we have on this? Secondly, no matter how many people say that they are trying objectively to project certain things, it is not possible. He's got a seal of ideological. I do not want to tell you examples, we are going out in the report to see too many other things. It has, and that makes sense. The majority in the House will put its own ideological direction, which cannot be identified or approached many times in the direction of at least the Communist Party of Greece. This job has spread too much. We do not agree with enlargement either. Of course, it is true that the government's majority will do everything. Also, the fact that all political leaders are involved is not the case. They do not participate, it is impossible to sit down, but nothing means anything. The decisions are taken at the end of the day, when they are different, than those who have the majority, and if sometimes we don't make a fuss, it's because it's unnecessary to make a fuss about that kind of decision. As also, we do not agree with the articles on the whole of work, that is, Article 9, Article 21, Article 23, 27 and 29 for the 12-hour period, all the days of the week and Article 33, that licences and Article 40 may be abolished, which is punishable for officials on certain criteria, which are unclear and can be used every time differently. We do not agree with a position of principle. Our position is that all workers must have a stable and permanent job. There are all kinds of industrial relations here. Nobody's gonna say it's objective. It is objective on the basis of what you have all voted together all these years and it is not objective, because that is the way it should be. It also says external cooperation and a number of other things. Who determines all these things? So we do not agree with all these articles, and that is why we are voting as a whole 'no'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u123	Mr Georgiadis has the floor from the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will be very brief on what I shall say. Firstly, with regard to the Rules of Procedure of the House and the provisions to be changed, we have also discussed them in committee. I will not go into explaining a few things any more, because anyway we are in'substances' and in principle and on the whole, and we are going to vote on some of the provisions that we consider to be positive. I would also like to thank the officials of this House and all the staff for the work they offer me personally, in my dual capacity - apart from being a Vice-President of this House - and I am very grateful for all the help you have given me, so that I can also be decent in my work. As far as the Foundation of Parliament is concerned, all I have to say is that there are very clearly changes which need and have our positive support. As a general rule, we will be in'representations' and there are too many provisions that we will be voting in favour of. In two points, we disagree: in the articles which give the power - at least in our opinion - to the President-in-Office of the Parliament concerned and we disagree on the new recruitments on the basis of the article which says of fifty-five new posts. We as the Central Association have said too many times that we need to tighten up and shrink the public and not squeeze it. We could see how moves can be made to cover these positions, even from the wider public, and not to move towards new appointments. I shall conclude by saying this: I have heard the inadmissible statement by my colleague from the extreme right wing, who has accused the President of this House of pediatrics. A social work and educational program that the House has and the schools come and the students termed it as a "childhood". Let me not forget that a Member of this movement shared a pen and a number of brochures to students in order to attract them. This thing I can't accept and sound from any fascist wing. I am sorry to hear the word 'education' for school students coming to Parliament, attending an educational programme and seeing exactly how the House works and they can see what we offer as parliamentarians, as parties and in general as services in public and public life. They were characterized by words such as 'educationality'. I am sorry that these words have been heard in plenary. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u125	The President of Parliament has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, let me clarify a few things. I'm sorry for the tension that has been experienced before with Mr. Loverdos. I believe that the clarifications that will be given will be lifted - at least to a large extent - because there are obviously issues which, either because of a lack of information or of a perception which, in my view, is inaccurate, have led me to say to him - badly - that he is a liar, etc. But we will clarify everything and clarify it here. It's much better than closed doors. Firstly, for the Foundation and the Management Board, in these changes made to the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, in these three years' time, for the first time is laid down in the Rules of Procedure in identical terms that the Foundation of the Parliament is run by an administrative board, while it did not exist. It didn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. He was in the institution's rule. Therefore, no competence is removed from the Board of Directors. They stay the same. This issue was barely raised by the central Rules of Procedure of this House and entered for the first time. So it's a matter of that. Secondly, I have heard Mr Georgiadis - I am sorry, but we are speaking publicly here - who said something about fifty-five new appointments. I read it from various journalists in the past few days. What can I say? We do not know that the organograms in all services are specific and that they also become renewers of the organograms, because life goes on? Same in Parliament - note the number I will tell you - the organograms in relation to the officials of the House give a number of more than 350 people, which are considered necessary by the services by Directorate-General and Directorate-General, and which have not been paid. Who doesn't know that? Mr Georgiadis, let me say that to you too, it is the organogram which is also the rate of payment or non-paid. So, in this House, the organograms that have been made in the past, and now I tell you that, in total, all 400 people are perhaps in positions in the organograms, which of course are not met. Now we're coming to the foundation. There was no organizational chart, therefore, of the exceptional time for which a rhetoric was previously heard. Organograms, i.e. a roof for parliament officials, did not exist. There wasn't. And now we're saying it's 32, 33, 34. And for the Foundation in the next couple of years, because it will also be in 2021, because it can also be a museum of democracy, etc., based on the addresses and parts of a multitude of institutions, of good, large - for which I am going to speak and which I will defend - are provided for as an organogram of 55 posts rather than an organogram. You realize what I mean and what I mean, that as long as there was no organizational chart or a multitude of positions could only become as many recruits as were. Now this ceiling is set, and at the same time we have also said to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, and the President, Mr Tragakis, will remember that we are obviously not prepared, for at least the months of this House, to overcover or cover in whole or anything other than a few prostheses in this organizational programme. What does this have to do with what I am now explaining, and, I think, it is perfectly understandable and modernistic, is a situation, with the orchestra and with the flaw that stands up for new recruitments and new situations? Nothing to do with it. There's a setup that any of us should have done. This is in relation to the staff in this regard. I feel the need to defend the foundation, the existence of the foundation, and also to congratulate those who have founded it independent of the bile, which, at least on one side, is broadcast publicly or at events held in the foundation, etc. It's none of my business. We have never touched any former President-in-Office or man, and that is why I am not going into this debate. I say, however, that the foundation should have been and its contribution is very important. I fully disagree with the Golden Dawn which does not concern itself with the case of democracy either way or with the foundations on their foreheads is very clear and I am explaining them. But I totally disagree with the JRC in a completely different way. The case of democracy, of parliamentary democracy, of political democracy, of social democracy, of social movements and of parliamentaryism is a matter in which we are all and which we are developing. It is very important that there should be an Foundation, for example, which organizes not only the Teenage Parliament, but that the tour of seventy and seventy-five thousand students from all over Greece with specific narratives, which are being modernised as well. And I would ask, if there are any different views on them, that we should, in essence, place ourselves on what the children' s children say. All Greece has been through here. It is also in contact with Parliament's history and with the basic principles of the functioning of parliamentary democracy. There are publications and events all over the spectrum. That may be annoying by some. And I'm not talking about the Communist Party now. I am referring to those who had limited the prism, the institution's horizon only to what they consider to be, because they are neither fundamentally, immaterial, that is, they have happened several decades ago and only according to the so-called 'national narrative'. Obviously, this is not only the case in recent years, but there is a complete impartiality that is beamed across the range of personalities, the necessary publications, the necessary events, the price that we must pay to people, to personalities, men and women, who have glowed this path. That opened up a lot. There is great extroversion, common events, common preparations for all the two hundred years with all the spiritual institutions and many other jobs. Obviously, there must be such an institution. It is really something that adds too much to the House, bringing the House in contact with society. This House is not just the bills that we are voting on in here. Culture, education, education, culture for parliamentarianism are much wider and we have therefore already demanded in some respects that there should be a debate in schools both on civilisation and on democracy and on parliamentaryism. Alas, if we cut off this arm of this work from the House. It'll be a disability. It's not like everyone puts their seal on and we're done. This isn't about it. Because a simple account, which the political forces have in your hands, of what happened in 2018, in 2017, in 2016, in 2015, shows that it is not the seal. It is the seal of consensus for these narrow horizons, for extroversion, for the honour throughout the history of parliamentarianism in our country. That seal does exist. I come to something that I have really done in the past, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Loverdos, and I have yelled at you. This report understands that it is the protagonist for the great report on the Ferraro King above. Unless no one's gone up and thinks this is the Ferret King report. In this report, therefore, there is no poster from the ECON 'Greek Ferraeus'. There is no reference to the reintegration, as is perfectly reasonable, and to the activity of the ECON group 'Greek Ferraios', in which I have had the luck of being a secretary for four years. It would be outrageous to have existed. Not because I was a secretary, but it wouldn't have anything to do with King Ferraio's route. So in this report - and we have analysed this in the opening, we have, unanimously, discussed it from all sides of the scientific community and the foundation and not just - are all the moments of Greek history. He is the King with his courage and not just with his Charter and with his influence. It is all the moments since then, Messolong, Mesolong, Mesolom, fight anti-attack and then the branded battalions and spears that existed then by the name of King Ferraus. It's all the moments that inspired young people. It's all moments one by one. Come and watch when a report takes place and it starts - to God! - or read it afterwards. In this sense, when the curators of the exhibition arrive in the anti-judgment, it is also included that in the anti-judgment struggle one obviously was inspired by the organizations that existed, and then the fighters of youths called it the "Greek Ferraus". And the posters you have seen have been released to illegality in 1969 when the Pan-European Games took place in Greece. People have been arrested and convicted. They have nothing to do with the ECON 'Ferraus King'. That's why I'm sorry he's gone before. But - if that's possible! - when we come here talking and we have a remnant that something has happened and I'll say it to him, this is out of place and in time! It would really be a slip if no one suggested it. And no one would accept it from the scientific community, if recommended. Of course it never happened. I'm coming back to staff. We have said this several times here. If the evidence does not support us, at least we do not change our viewpoint and the evidence. You must be aware that in recent years no employee has left - I mean, over and above regular staff - from the House than those who had contracts. There was also an increase in staff from about fifty cleaners and cleaners, who were also on the payroll of the House through contractors. And from there on there there have been points of view in total perhaps forty, fifty recruitments always - take note of that - and only by means of contracts and no one permanent, for the projects that are being carried out. And let me say that the projects are with the same budget multiples of things - and because we are coming out of the crisis slowly, slowly - of at least the recent past. That's what this is about. We've also achieved something. They all work, they all work, they all have the object of working, they are not slow-wages, they are not hidden outside the House in offices former or current political officials. And we have an excellent relationship with the employees' association and employees. And let me say something else, Mr Palhei, on the occasion of what I say to you. You have referred to all the articles you are voting against, because you have very clear positions in relation to employment. You know perfectly well that the House operates from 7.00 pm to 8.00 pm in the morning, and possibly until too late in the evening and that all the officials and all the staff here - not in excess of time, but here it is done in a proper way, but unfortunately in relation to the half-century that is out of here - it has all the work rights relating to the observance of the eighth hour, in the extra overtime, to getting specific allowances for extra work. There is no sign of a different function, and as far as the employees of the Foundation are concerned, referring either to middle-ages or to half-years. And to compare that we at work have the other one? What else? It's like eight o'clock. And from what time until what time? And who and how? And you know that. And you know very well that we have made every effort to streamline them, to put them in one order in cooperation with both the association and the workers. And as far as I know, there are no complaints in this regard. I also want to defend the foundation in that there are regular tours seven days a week not only of the students, but that is too many people, another forty thousand and forty-five thousand. It takes shifts for Saturday morning and noon and Sunday to make tours for the officials of the House. And that's right. Because then the workers we are cut off - as far as everyone is cut - can come to a tour in the House. They can't come by 15:30 at noon, these five hours a week. To God! It's self-evident, I think. There is therefore an excellent job to be done in this area too. I come to the posters in relation to the ex-boyfriends, etc. Also, a class came in. They were reduced by one in the Rules of Procedure. They were immediately reduced three years ago by one of the post-masters who had former Presidents and former Heads of Parliament, and so on. In addition, the secondment by the House - and not the number - were also reduced. A certain limit came in and they were clearly reduced. The safety of these persons was also reduced. There has been a total reduction in relation to these issues which are strictly respected and which is valid. From there on, what we say "a period of extension" is the further reduction in relation to only the five post-demands - which I considered to be reasonable - former Parliament Presidents, former Heads of State, etc., who need and are active, whether or not they are current MPs, making publications, doing events, doing writings, are in the Academy and elsewhere. That's what this is about. In other words, there was a period later when the further reduction not of the secondment of the Parliament, nor of the police - I repeat - went back, nor did one who was cut off by the posters. That's it. And on this occasion, unfortunately, I read the newspapers in the previous period, which do not have any effect. I will not go into what has been said about pediatrics and so on. It's not worth it. Those of your parties - both from PASOK and New Democracy and from SYRIZA - came to the Teenagers' House in the specific procedures that took place, the long hours or were in contact with tours etc. They have seen that the modernisation that has been made in this area is very important, is an offer to children and leads children to a reflection on all the asynchronous problems, with full freedom to approach them and in a direction that is obviously neither propaganda nor guidance nor anything else. We have avoided something, that is, the open channel - because all the meetings are held in the Chamber of Adolescents, etc. - mocking a sick micromasmation, presenting for all material discussions and interventions by children who led them to a situation where society was saying'my child, okay, what are you getting there to do?' While it was an excellent institution, slowly it had begun and was devastated. This has changed with the teachers - we have no intervention - with people who are through schools, with directors, with the special scientific committee and now an extremely interesting work is being done and between them children have incentives to be able to work in a very good, desirable and modern way. Although I have been provoked, I will not put into this sitting a public comparison, because I do not believe - but if one were to open up a political war with the past in view of future political developments - that this would help Parliament and because - I will add something else and I want to be honest - at every stage it is certain that solutions are given and, to a large extent, the subsequent ones are arbitrary to make a criticism from the high point of view. I believe that, so I don't. But, for example, we could say positively that in recent years, both buildings and the reduction of half a million in rents, which have been too high and for this House to become a reality. Because the House had no legal status, no property, no property, no registered property, no licenses for the operation of the nursery, gym and a series of other very sensitive functions and buildings within the House, etc. There have also been very serious issues since the end of the 1980s, to which I will not refer, but if explanations are requested, the relevant dossiers can be provided. These have to do with work started, financed with very large sums, have never been finished and have never been received or with work that has been completely received outside the technical and professional integrity of the House. There is also a number of other issues, for example, the Benacio Library, this jewelry, you've seen it in the center of Athens. Is it ever closed? Nearly twenty-five or twenty-seven years. And they did after Lenorman, and it's also a jewel. That is why I am not interested in how much anyone is looking for his hunger or hostile attitudes, I do not mean from here, with the present administration of this House or anything else - they are not going to be netted out, nor are they against the excellent work that has been done in previous years and in which previous reports have been made, from garage to buildings, up to their operation, which are wealth for Parliament and for all the things we have received, but were outstandings which we have tried to do all this time to do the relevant dossiers, to find the evidence, to start the tenders, to start the procedures. I'm just finishing up with this, and I'm sorry I'm long gone. It is extremely unfair at every time of the debate on the Rules of Procedure that there should be objections which have not been based and which, in my opinion, bear witness to a concept of defensive, that some misconduct, some evildoers, some defenders have been invaded for a number of years and have, let me say, broken up the good texts. I say this because there have also been public interventions of this kind. This property concept, whether or not, has been terminated by the people and I don't think it will come back. Fortunately, they do not assist old parliamentarians in this. We have heard Mr Tragakis before. And thankfully, Parliament - and we should all be proud of it if we knew so, as long as you know that to be proud - has now regulations passed by the House. It has a uniform regulation, not the number of special regulations, which were in place per service with the special clauses and which were not adopted by Parliament and which were difficult to access. I was a secretary of the parliamentary group in the previous period and had only to ask Mr Dritsa specific questions if I could hear any specific articles. It wasn't bad, it was that time, though. Now it's all here, it's all known. There's been a codification. All together are in a single regulation and this is a piece of Parliament. It's all our property. All right, they could have been smaller or larger these regulations and they weren't so case-by-case. But there is a political accusation - because this is what this is all about - that this is all because they appoint posters - where are they? - because democratic and institutional in Parliament and outside operate outside the framework, simply to give titles to websites and newspapers, it is extremely unfair. It is extremely unfair for all of us and we must not allow the political system to be put at a very sensitive moment in its relations with society. What has gone through us and what goes through us and what goes on in the future - to answer this question or insinuation too - will be in the framework of institutional regulation, with transparency and broad consensus. Everything I've told you is with wide consensus. It is neither a man's authority nor a majority. I'm so sorry if it hasn't been understood. And tomorrow, because you also said to the Board, dear Mr Loverdo, nothing more - and I mean it - of what I have heard from this particular side in public, on the occasion of events with completely other content, or with the artwork that has been done, I do not expect to hear. It's just that it's unfair. That's what I'm saying. It is unfair and under no circumstances will I oppose it or go to such a conflict. However, as a party which, for most of the years after the post-Culture period you had and the steering wheel of the country in your hands, I must say in a way - let me say, it is not a suggestion - genuine, impartial and with all the elements - to value every time the work of all of us, because we are in a sense on the same boat that is related to Parliament and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House organises and operates, sixteen members of the Cultural Philosophy Association of Rhesians "The Asteris". The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u128	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u129	What do you want, Mr. Georgiadis? Do you want to answer the President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u130	I want to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u131	Please, you have the floor, but soon, because we're completely out of schedule. Two hours we need to deal with this!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u132	Thirty seconds, Madam President, I'm gonna need it. Because it is a public sitting, and I do not want any hints or anything, and because the President has referred to me and to the recruitment we have said about the fifty-five posts, we very clearly agree with any establishment plan. We're not talking about it. It's good to get organograms in. However, since you are referring only to an organizational chart and not to new recruitments, if you clarify it....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u133	It's thirty-four...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u134	Mr President, let me finish and you can say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u135	It's clear inside!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u136	If it is clarified that these posts will not be new appointments and will be covered internally by the existing staff, we, instead of 'no', will say 'yes'. We call 'no' to new appointments. Otherwise, if it is not clarified, it concerns new appointments or possible new appointments, and I would like to clarify the reason why we disagree. Indeed, since it refers to a specific number, we have also mentioned that we do not want new posts. That is what I said, Mr President, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, will you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u138	Yeah, just for a second, make it clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u139	Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u140	It is clear that we are talking about already working people, whose number is specific. The workers themselves will be. It is a question of the number of fifty-five if two or three additions are needed with the needs of next time. Nothing else. I was very clear. It's about the already working people. It is not a question of new appointments, and I wonder. But you're in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. It's written in. What new assignments? What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u141	Madam President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u142	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Madam President. As the President of Parliament spoke, there is obviously no personal matter. There was when the finger told me I was a liar. The way he put it now, I don't have a personal issue. However, I have to give a clarification, Madam President. In this Chamber for so many years I have been on the choice of the Greek people, I may have made mistakes, but I am not lying. Mr President, I will tell you what has led me to my criticism of this report. I, Giannis Metzikoff, see him when he sets up the exhibitions. It is not that I am not following the reports, as you have said. And when the exhibitions are set up, I'm next to Yannis, and I ask him, and I know before the exhibition is set up, what exactly does he have in mind. However, here outside - and colleagues from your party saw these - there are the posters. You were founded on December 17, 1967. These posters are from 1969 mobilizations. I don't now have the effect of tabling things that are outside, but that's what it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u144	I'm talking about the anti-judgment game!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u145	I had the possibility... Let me finish. I did not tell you about the ECON, I told you about the Ferraus Kingship.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u146	Three times. For the ECON...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u147	No, you haven't been ECON since the beginning. You haven't been ECON since the beginning. The King Ferraios, therefore, existed and manifested. You could have done it a little differently. Now, as far as the officials are concerned, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u148	Finish, Mr. Loverdo. It can't be. There's no dentistry. What's that thing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u149	I'll be done. As far as the officials are concerned, and here I will speak in the direction of the truth, and I will say that as regards Mr Kaklamani, the President of the Parliament for eleven years - I forgot to say, I mentioned only two, I mentioned the garages and the channel of the House - for the foundation we have conflicted, the issues of international relations, the institution of the House of Adolescents, the new buildings, for all these, Madam President, when he took over in 1993, seven hundred and twenty-six employees and handed over eight hundred forty. You, in four years' time, have, Mr President, no matter what...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u150	It's all in the Minutes! What are these things? "Papaziad" is those!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u151	One hundred and fifty three... Don't refer to evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u152	Four times four, about forty a year. And I'm closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u153	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u154	The conflict, Madam President, would have been avoided if the act that I requested from the outset to postpone...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u155	Why do you say that? While it's a hundred ten, you said four hundred!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u156	From a thousand two hundred and fifty-six to a thousand four hundred! Am I right?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u157	You said we put four hundred!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u158	Am I right to be a thousand four hundred out of a thousand two hundred fifty-six? Am I right? I'm right about that. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] So all this could have been avoided if, Mr President, this matter had been postponed until tomorrow's board of directors met. These are the reasons and arguments I have put forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u159	Impressions!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u160	Totally!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u162	Tell me, Mr. Giola, what you want. Let's get it completed. What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u163	I asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u164	After the process has been completed, and after the president, are you asking to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u165	He's not the party leader, he's the President of this House!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u166	I haven't spoken. For the bypass, I'm in place. Give me two, three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u167	You could have been ahead of us, that's what I mean. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u168	The 'no' from the Golden Dawn for the Foundation of the Parliament with a view to spreading the principles of Parliament and of the Republic certainly does not alienate us. However, the continued attempt to judge by excessively inaccurate, inaccurate - even falsehood - does not, of course, jeopardise parliamentary customs and democracy in this area. I would therefore like to say that, in high-popular faces, such as the pre-existing Presidents of the House, we give due respect. It is not, however, those people who will be serving a multitude of powers, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy has said, a seventeen-member institution, which can have the upper hand. In fact, the Executive Board is these persons, the pre-existing Presidents, who are devoting themselves to this institution. It is the executive power that will guide, find ways to improve and enhance the institution's institutions and functions. And, above all, I would like to stand by and say that this institution is not only the children of the primary school we see, and of the high school and other schools that come to Parliament every day - the President has said so - are the conferences, they are the visits of all the others - and even the workers - which the Foundation does at times, are events and exhibitions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u169	Partnerships with other institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u170	They're partnerships with other institutions and museums. This is, therefore, because it is the visibility of the institution itself, they cannot stay behind and it is unacceptable that they should not be assisted by the required number of officials. So here we come and say that this figure, so that it cannot be increased to infinitely, is laid down in the rules of operation in the fifty-fifths that it is not necessary to overcome. Finally, I wanted to say this. So, what is the result of this today's misdemeanor of a portion of the counterpopulation? Ladies and gentlemen, we have to say things by their name. The fact that we invaded, we infiltrated here, seem in some other way, were not tolerated by the permanent owners of the Parliamentary Republic and power in this place. Even one day is hovering you, it's bothering you. So that has to be stopped. Either there are customs and democratic rules that must be tolerated or you will not constantly invent paradoxes, you will not be looking to find plagiars in order to dare say that we who have the essential and formal legitimacy of the Greek people will not be able to continue to exercise the administration and the government as we should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr. Giola. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned, firstly, on the proposal by the President of Parliament: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament - Part II" (Government Gazette 51 A/104-1997) and Part A (Government Gazette 106 A-24-87), as in force", secondly, on the proposal of the President of Parliament: "The Statute of the Parliamentary Institute for Parliament and of the Republic" and, thirdly, on the adoption of the 'Commission Operating Regulations referred to in Article 3A of Law No 3213/2003 - Rules of Procedure of the Special Audit Office for Assurance of Assurance". Their vote will be taken separately. We begin by voting on the principle, articles and all of the first sentence: 'To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Government Gazette 51 A-104-1997) and Part Parliamentary (Government Gazette 106 A 224-6 1987), as applicable'. Does this House accept the proposal in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u172	Mr. President, is everything together?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u173	The first part in the first place. There's also the articles. We'll go on the articles too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u174	The first part of what is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u175	The first part concerns the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. Then it's the foundation. The institution is single.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u176	Help, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u177	I'm reading them to you one at first. We'll then vote on the articles...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u178	The organism is self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u179	These are three votes. The organism will be separate, but it will be single. We will not discuss separate provisions of the organization. Unique in principle and on the whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u180	Now which one do you want from the three pieces?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u181	First part. And I said the provisions of the House Part II, based on the FEK. I said it, Mr. Loverdo. I read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u182	What will be shown on the screen, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u183	It is not an electronic vote. It's by word. Does this House accept the proposal in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u187	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u188	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u189	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u190	The proposal therefore: 'To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Financial Regulations Nos 51 A-104-1997) and Part Parliamentary (Government Gazette 106 A-246-1987), as in force', was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u194	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u195	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u196	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u197	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u201	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u204	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u211	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u215	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u217	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u218	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u220	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u222	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u223	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u224	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u225	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u229	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u230	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u232	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u239	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The proposal therefore: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (Financial Regulations Nos 51 A-104-1997) and Part Parliamentary (Government Gazette 106 A-246-1987), as in force", was accepted in principle and on articles. We shall now vote on the proposal as a whole. Does this House also accept the proposal as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u243	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u244	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u245	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u246	The proposal was accepted by a majority in the total. The proposal therefore: "To amend provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part II (VAT 51 A/104-1997) and Part Parliamentary (VAT 106 A 224-6 1987), as applicable", was accepted by a majority in principle, Articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u247	We are entering the vote on the second sentence of the President of Parliament: 'The institution of the Parliamentary Foundation for Parliament and Democracy'. Does the House agree that the proposal will be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u250	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u251	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u252	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u254	The proposal, therefore, was accepted by a majority of the Parliamentary Institute of Parliamentary Affairs and Democracy, which reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u255	We enter into the approval of the ‘Committee's Rules of Procedure under Article 3A of Law 3213/2003 — Rules of Procedure of the Special Committee for the Audit of Statements of Assurance.’ Does the House agree that the Commission's Rules of Procedure under Article 3A of Law 3213/2003 - Rules of Procedure of the Special Office for Public Procedural Statements are adopted?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u257	Yes, by clarifying that we had voted against the law as regards the composition of the Committee on Audit where you were going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u259	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u260	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u262	Consequently, the ‘Staff Regulations of the Commission under Article 3A of Law 3213/2003 - Rules of Procedure of the Special Office for Assurance Statement Control’ was adopted by a majority of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to confirm the Minutes with responsibility for voting on these proposals and for adopting the 'Commission's Rules of Procedure of Article 3A of Law 3213/2003 - Rules of Procedure of the Special Service for the Audit of Assurance Statements'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u264	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Three topical questions will be discussed. The Minister will answer Mr Panantsiu, who, as far as I can see, is already here. Let us start immediately with the first one, and during the debate I will also read the hindrances. We begin with the first with number 374/19-2-2019, the first question of the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Published abolition of DU Acharon". Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in recent months in the Acharnes region, the population has been very concerned by the so-called DU Acharnes decision to abolish - a merger of the local tax office. This concerns the decision of the Independent Public Revenue Authority to abolish - merger of thirty-five stores in the Attica region in February 2018. Also, in 2013 from the DU Acharnon store, two departments have left the court and business, while the rumours are intensified that DU Acharnon will either be transferred to the store of Elefsina DU or to the store of Pallini DU. This creates strong functional and social problems, because, if this decision is implemented, the third largest municipality in Attica and the largest municipality in eastern Attica remains without tax. At the same time, we want to stress that in recent years the Municipality of Acharnon has been facing serious social problems and, in particular, problems of infraction. We stress that the Municipality of Acharnon has more than one hundred and eighty thousand inhabitants, most of which are people of high age, who are served exclusively by the DU store and not by the information system. We also want to point out that in recent years many public service shops and the CECO have left the region in question. Therefore, if the rumours of abolition, merger of the DUA Acharnes, are verified, the existing social problems will be intensified and an already downgraded area further downgraded. In view of the above, therefore, you are asking what the relevant Ministry intends to do to keep the store of Acharnon and to upgrade the level of its services so that the daily life of the municipal residents is relieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Darkness, you are giving me the opportunity to talk about some facts, which we all need to know. I will begin, as you said, from the historical data, from 1 July 2013, which abolished the control departments of certain Class I DUs, the DUst Class II control offices and the functioning of the judicial departments of the above Class Is suspended. There was, in fact, a redefinition of the material competence of departments and offices, by decision of the then Secretary-General of the General Secretariat of Public Revenues of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Theocharis, published in the FEK 1404/2013. What now? Two forms of DWO were created, the First Class with full tax-control and tax-supply mechanism, and the DWO class AB's, which operate without the audit and judiciary departments. In fact, in these DUs, because there is no control and judiciary, especially for the judiciary, many times citizens are forced to leave the first DUs and go to DUI I class, which may be a long way away, as you mentioned. They must also bring the results back again, so that we have a great deal of suffering for the citizens. As of 1 January 2017, we have the establishment of the Independent Public Revenue Authority. Under the provisions that we voted on in Law4389/2016, it is the commander of the ADP, who decides to define his structure, management bodies and the structure and functioning of the ADP services, including the DUs. What's left at the Treasury is the legalization. In essence, this new structure aims at the smooth and efficient functioning of the AIA services, an issue of crucial importance for the proper fulfilment of its purpose and mission. What's up today? The structure and operation of the IGC services is undergoing ongoing study and monitoring in order to make appropriate organisational interventions and to strengthen their very important work. What is the objective of government policy? The first objective is to upgrade the daily life of the citizen, with the continued development of electronic applications. The second objective is to effectively deal with and manage the service of citizens. In some DUs, special offices, where necessary, are set up to serve citizens. Finally, it is also the creation of relationships of trust with taxpayers, which is achieved in a way by avoiding citizens' compulsory attendance to the ILO, that is to say, without the need for a physical presence. I heard all that you said to me, but because I don't have much time, I'm taking it into account and I'll fill in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have three minutes at your disposal for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, thank you for the answer. I consider it very important that the services are actually upgraded through the information system. However, until this is done and until the large volume of our fellow citizens can use this system, something needs to be done. You know, the Acharnes, as I said, are a city of eighty thousand inhabitants and serves other neighboring areas, the Thracco-Macedones, Barumbobes, etc. Some tax services in Pallini, Elefsina, Kifisia are operating very well, but they will not be able to help citizens from there. You know, to go to Elefsina from Acharnes, you have to take a bus, go to Aspropyrgos and Aspropyrgos get another bus to go to Elefsina or go with the suburban, which is on the route every hour. To go to Pallini, which is also another big city in Eastern Attica, again must take the suburban every hour, when it arrives at the stop, getting a bus, getting into Pallini to go to DU. It's worse for Kifisia. There is a urban bus in the northern Acharnes, in Karamanlis, every one or a half hour, to go to Kifisia. It is absolutely impossible for citizens to serve in another city from the city of Acharnes, the largest city in eastern Attica. Indeed, and I do not know which criteria - I imagine it was very easy for these criteria, and without much thought - half the DU, the judiciary and the business, was transferred to Kifissia in 2013. And I told you the difficulties of someone going to Kifisia. Unless we think that everyone has to have his car, get gasoline, pay tolls and go or more, if he has money, get a taxi. You know, the majority of people who live in Acharnes have little luxury. The city has to work. And especially a town like her, with problems of infraction, should work. The world must be released, the world must be served in its own city, the world must have an extrovert and not be forced to disengage itself to fulfil some of its obligations. Life in the city stands against infraction. And, indeed, until we are all drawn up in the information system and not to be illustrative in digital terms, I think the agency should rethink it. I have the impression, I have the information that these are suggestions by service actors to move this particular DU. Well, there's a plan, but not all the cases are the same. In fact, look carefully at the suggestions of these factors and measure things, because this DUE needs in the Acharnes. And not only does it need, but it also needs to be upgraded so that all the inhabitants of this great city and the surrounding areas that are served to have these services that we must give the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u272	After all I have said in my prototype, I would like to point out the following: we are not closing our eyes. We understand the problems created in a large municipality, such as the Municipality of Acharnon, and the merger of DU Acharnon in AB' class. We are in contact with society and the citizens, realizing the difficulty that this change will bring taxpayers, through their forced movement to other DUs, as well as any financial costs that this entails. Our Government has shown in fact the intention of dealing with problems, the ones that arise and touch the daily lives of ordinary citizens. In this context, therefore, I will mention the concerns you have put to us by the Governor of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, as to whether in the context of an examination of a reorganisation plan for the WEU it intends to merge some of the services, but also whether the impact they will have on local communities has been examined. By strengthening our firm intention to improve the conditions of the daily lives of citizens, we have raised this issue, as well as other similar issues, to the Commander of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, who is responsible for the organisational implementation of the digital development of AIA services. We will reinstate ourselves, as well as the Management Board of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, the suspension of any possible proposals on such a project until taxpayers can be directly and easily served by electronic applications. In conclusion, I must stress that I have reiterated many times the need for immediate digitisation of the services of the Independent Public Income Authority. These services, for example the registry department, are having problems with the volume of unmanageable cases and therefore suffering the citizens who wish to serve. Therefore, I will repeat once again that the need for digitisation is considered immediate and imperative in order to facilitate all our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to announce to you the request for an absence of a colleague. Parliamentary Second Athens, New Democracy Mr Koumoutsakos, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from February 27th to February 28th 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u274	The House therefore approved the requested permission. And now I will read some of the topical questions that will not be discussed. The third, with number 349/11-2-2019, the second question of the Athens MP, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister for Health, with regard to the medicine, will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis. Cause: workload. Eleventh, under number 316/29-1-2019, a topical question by MP Laconia of Democratic Integration Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delays in the course of patients from the EKA in intensive treatment units due to the lack of medical staff", will not be discussed due to the impediment of Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paul Polakis. Cause: workload. The twelfth under number 332/5-2-2019 topical question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on "the chronic problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PANGN)" will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. Cause: workload. The thirteenth question under number 329/4-2-2019 of the new Republic MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Creation of a Bran Branch / Oncological Clinic at the General Hospital of Drama", will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. Cause: workload. The fourteenth under number 322/4-2-2019 topical question by Congressman Larissa of Democratic Integration Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Exceedances of chemical treatments", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. Cause: workload. The fifth under number 355/12-2-2019 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on "the assignment of real estate to a Public Property Company (ETAD) - Fund for the Development of Private Property of the Government (THEID)", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotos. Cause: workload. The sixth question under number 350/11-2-2019, a second question by the Deputy Minister of Attica of the New Democracy, George Vlachos, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Support Account of the National Bank of Greece (LEPETE)", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. Cause: workload. The eighth under number 351/11-2-2019 topical question from the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the overseer by demanding the 50th of one (51) public property in the Municipality of Pyrgos" will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotos. Cause: workload. The third, with number 2932/31-10-2018 question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Democratic Association Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Democracy of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the 2nd High School of Athens", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr.Eklidis Tsakalotou. Cause: workload. Furthermore, the tenth question under number 328/4-2-2019 of the new Republic of Athens Members of Parliament, Mr Kikilia, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: “Crisis of the Supreme Leader in the Armed Forces”, will not be discussed, since the Minister has answered in writing from 12 February 2019 under No 5111/29-1-2019 similar to the questions asked by the Member himself. I'll go on with the rest of the hindrances. Let's move on to the next question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, why don't you say the rest of the hindrances?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u276	I told you they'd follow later, Mr. Panagoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u277	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u278	We shall proceed first with the procedure because they are already waiting for colleagues. Mr. Gregorakos, the question will now be discussed, waiting and then placed. We're not wasting time. We move to the seventh under number 339/7-2-2019 topical question by Mr Leonida Gregorakos on the subject of 'Limit situation in the National Health System'. Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u279	Thank you very much, Mr President. You have already announced the postponement of my timely question about the EMCDDA, so we have the opportunity - I think - to discuss all this together, Minister, today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u280	If we can make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u281	I say this because Mr Polakis has been postponed too many times in response to my question. For the last five months, he has not been coming to answer the question. It's okay. However, I thank you very much for being here today to discuss the issue of health, which is very topical and really worried about the world and the flu that exists these days. The system is open to wounds. There is a complete disorganization, Minister, in emergency medicine. There are too many deficiencies in intensive care units. Every day there are about fifty beds in the EKEB for waiting. The EMCDDA ambulances are per shift of fifty to sixty, when at one time, in the previous days, they were eighty, ninety and a hundred. The delay in reaching the scene of the accident is too great. Of course, there are all the things that one sees every day in the daily press. Soon ago we saw that a 15-year-old died in a prose unit in Voula because of a lack of doctors. We see that in public hospitals the shortcomings touch the six and a half thousand. The vacancies throughout the National Health System are twenty thousand. The bad winter that hit Greece this year brought us the flu up. We read that until yesterday we had seventy-four of our people dead. Primary health care is weaker than ever. There are a thousand two hundred contracted family doctors for eleven million citizens. Greece has the second place on the black list of Europe with regard to infections. Of the operating beds in the ICU about a hundred twenty have been rented by the private sector, while remaining a hundred fifty beds closed. Urgent medicine is going through difficult times because there are no doctors in hospitals at night or day to transfer patients to intensive care units. So we see that a system really is in a very difficult situation. I understand the country's finances, but health is a good we must all protect it very much. Finally, in public hospitals, one can see that there are notable overdue debts, while we see that there is an overdue tax on Greek citizens and that there is overcrowding. Hospitals have too much time. What is the Ministry's planning for the immediate response to the problems affecting the National Health System and the citizens of the country? What action do you intend to take to urgently meet the needs of staff in order for health structures to function decently and safely? What actions do you intend to take to deal immediately with delays in the crossing of heavy suffering by the EMCDDA in the available beds due to a lack of medical staff, but also in hospital emergency? Because a week ago one of our fellow men happened to call me, friend, and his mother-in-law had fallen on the street. I even called the EKAV myself. The ambulance made it three hours, because it - he said - had a lot of traffic and had a shortage of ambulances. As you can see, it's a grim image of the National Health System. I need some answers. I believe that you have not been able to solve the problems, nor can anyone solve the problem of Greece. There have also been many shortcomings in previous years, of course, but now that you say that we have come out of the memorandum and that you are more free to recruit, but also to provide more grants to the National Health System, I would like you to tell me or inform me of everything I asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr. Gregoraco. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u283	My dear colleague, as you can see, is actually the subject of a topical question, namely the overall debate on health problems in the country, on the shortcomings of the system and on the difficulty in meeting human resources. It wants a very extensive debate, not only to discuss problems - because there are obviously problems - but also to present a plan for gradual - obviously - meeting these needs and addressing the problems. What I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, is that in the crisis, already within the memorandum, I think we have given a very clear signal and a sample of writing on how we approach health issues. I think that with the interventions we have made, firstly, to ensure universal access to the health system, medical care and secondly, to mobilise the available resources, human and material, at this time. And I have to tell you they weren't very few. Aggregating the notices of permanent workers, doctors and other staff, which have been launched at this time, is about eight and a half to nine thousand. It is a significant reinforcement of this and a haemorrhage system very critical over a period of restrictions. Of course they also left these years, but from 2016 onwards the balance is clearly positive. Also, as far as the financing of hospitals is concerned, if you see the reinforcement of operating costs in the first medium-term that we operated in 2015-2018 and in the second medium-term, i.e. 2019-2022, the increase in the closed budgets is about 1.1 billion. It's very important reinforcement in an austerity period. With regard to the very thick and clear questions you have raised, which of course require much more detailed answers, I shall refer in particular to the issue of emergency medicine. I think you know that particular emphasis has been placed on this area at the moment. We have proclaimed over five hundred posts of permanent specialist doctors in the ERC targeted for the whole country's TDIs. He's in an evaluation process. Already some health regions have completed the crises and are coming to the Ministry slowly to sign the appointments of colleagues. I think that in the next few months we will have very effectively strengthened the first line of defence of the system and it will not only be a case of the qualified or subsidiary contribution of specialist clinic doctors to administer the large volume of incidents that come to the TLPs, especially during on-call days here in Lefkanopedi. As far as closed intensified beds are concerned, this is a timeless problem, you know that very well. The figures you have in the question are not accurate, you need to look a little better at your sources. It is not four hundred and twenty active intensive beds in the country, it is five hundred fifty two. They're much less closed beds than any time, they're only sixty-three right now. Of course, also with the help of beds and private clinics, if necessary, - now we are talking about using the intensive beds of military hospitals - we are trying to have the fullest possible coverage of people's needs. Also, you should know that we have announced two hundred twelve, all empty organic sites in intensive care units and in intensive pups. Of these, fifty - four have already been appointed. And that is why the management of the needs that have arisen and because of the flu that is at the epidemic in this period and in our country, as in all of Europe, I think it is good in general, and the people who really need intensive care in general are quickly and effectively treated. Of course, there is the big issue of public health spending. The truth is, it's too low, we've said it too many times. The bet of the new period, which you rightly said gives more opportunities, but of course there are restrictions, is firstly, to alleviate disparities that exist, and of course we also have a gradual downturn in austerity. In other words, we must gradually move towards convergence with the average European conditions, from which we are far from being too far away. This year we managed to strengthen the health ministry's budget by 162 million euros compared to 2018. In particular, from EUR 8,956 billion increased to EUR 9,118 billion the total public health expenditure of the state budget and of the EEAS budget. They are not enough to fully meet the needs of our country. I think that we need a serious effort and a serious plan, especially in terms of human resources. We will be able in the next few days to present a four-year plan for the proclamation of permanent posts and doctors and other staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Gregoraco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u285	Minister, I have listened well to you. I know that problems cannot be solved, but once again you have been tempted to tell us again about notices. You told us about eight and a half thousand recruits. If I remember from the previous years, you have proclaimed about twenty thousand. There has been no recruitment, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u286	Any intakes?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u287	You'll answer me. All eight and a half thousand awards will be made in the next few years, being in the pre-election period. You know that these notices will not end, at least in the procedures that exist through the various committees, after six to eight months. I want to tell you this. I asked you a question, which I had, of course, done a long time ago. We had three hundred fifty - four hundred doctors who retired in December 2018. We had these doctors who had to decide at the end what to do with primary health care, about eight hundred, who also left, because they also supported health structures, especially in Athens and in the large hospitals and in the province. You know why you're a doctor. Go to hospitals, go to "Evangelism", see what happens at a clinic. You'll see a coordinator, if there are, there'll be five - six directors and a couple - three curators I. There have only been generals, Minister, and there have been previous years. We want curator I and curator II so that the system can regain its pace. With what you're doing, he can't find his rhythm. They're leaving, the doctors are growing up. And you know what happened now? This scientific gap will be seen in a very short time. They're all doctors sixty-sixty-five years old, they're tired. It is aged by both doctors and nursing staff and administrative staff. We don't have any skilled people. They can't do their training, and there'll be a big scientific gap. I only tell you that I had worked in a special section of "Save" for seventeen years at the Respiratory Insufficiency and Relief Center and the intensive care unit was the first and only intensive treatment unit in Greece, since the late Mrs.Macriotis, since 1953, when we faced polio at the time and after the tetanus and all those diseases of that time. Today this centre at the Salvation Hospital, which is a model worldwide, is in danger of being closed due to the fact that there are no doctors. There are no intensifiers, there are no doctors to support this structure, the important and historic structure of Greece. I would therefore like to say that it is the most afflicted "bump" in the ESS, as is the recruitment of subsidiary doctors. You're trying to do something right now. I would therefore like to make a proposal to you. I do not, of course, represent all the opposition, but we can agree on that. Those doctors who have been in the system and who have been serving it over the last three years, to take up permanent positions in the National Health System after a crisis, so that the system can proceed. So let us join them directly, those people who are in the system, want to be in the system, evaluate them - in a crisis I said, they will not take the positions like this - so that we can overcome the major shortcomings of the National Health System. And not to be afraid of the private sector, Minister. I have seen that you intend to increase the beds of intensive care units through the private sector. Do it. The private sector should assist the National Health System, as should the National Health System. We want cooperation from the National Health System and private sector. This is not bad when it comes to the health of the Greek citizen. And I think we need to move on in this too, so that we can see the ranch of Attica falling, the "Save" falling, no beds in the hallways with intact patients, no ten, fifteen, fifty patients a day intubated in hospital rooms and no solution can be found. It's not right for either of us. It's a disgrace to the national health system. It's a disgrace to Greece. We need to find the solutions together. We give you the good hand of help. Go ahead and find us supporters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Gregoraco. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u289	I believe that there really is a positive intention - let us say - of contributing and creative criticism. I've never tried to make things look good in this time. It's still hard. But that's not true, and you know that very well. Hospitals, at the moment with more difficulties, and health centres and all public care have been supported, and in the midst of a crisis. And please don't question the numbers. We have announced two thousand seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixteen-sixteen-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-seven-six-six-six-six-six-seven-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-seven-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-st-st-six-six-six-six-six-six-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-t-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-s The sum is three thousand four hundred. Of these, unfortunately, only half of them have been completed and serviced. A thousand-seven-seven-seven-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. And they are, of course, serving over two and a half thousands of auxiliary doctors, who first of all offer excellent work, cover enormous needs, certainly, and it is an emblematic solution. Allow me, however, to say that after a period of very long abandonment and disorganisation of the health system, and the 'blocks' are of great value when a systematic rupture of the health system had taken place for many years, with zero recruitment and a dramatic cut in resources. Since 2015, cuts in operating expenditure have stopped and we have a limiting aid every year, as I said before. The question of subsidiary doctors you know very well that it cannot be solved by automatic permanentisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u290	Crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u291	Watch out. There can be no individual crisis. The recruitment of doctors to the public health system, Mr Gregorako - you know that very well, you have financed the Deputy Minister for Health - you know that it is done by an open notice, which everyone can put papers. That's what we're gonna do. And there is a need today, as long-term positions are covered - so they cover constant and constant needs - by subsidiary doctors. A large proportion of the recruitments in the next few years - not massively, because we do not have that possibility, because we have a limit on how many recruitments will take place on the basis of 1 to 1 in public administration, but 1 to 1 in public helps us, because this year we will have a margin of some nine thousand public recruitments - will also go to the health sector. Nowadays, we've been completing the meetings with the Ministry of Administrative Reform. Our concern is, therefore, to ensure that the positions taken by our colleagues in the next few years can be proclaimed and reclaimed on the basis of their pre-service and qualifications, as we did for the other ancillary staff, which were on repeated extensions. And these days there is a thousand-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixteen-sixt-seven-seven-sixt-seven-sixt-seven-seven-seven-sixt-seven-sixt-seven-seven-sixt-seven-sixt-seven-sixt-seven-seven-sixt-sixt-sixt-seven-sixt-seven-sixt-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-s-st-s, that correspond to the positions covered by these workers, which are continuously extended to the other ancillary staff. However, this is an open notice. And we believe that precisely because these people have many years of experience and pre-service in the system, they will be able to understand these positions. I still say: The health system, despite its problems and despite its open wounds due to the crisis, offers reliable services. And I think that it does not look particularly at health care staff having a tendency - let alone - to be dangerous and destructive. I'm not saying you're doing this thing today. But I really think that what it takes is for people to trust public care and know - and I think those who have a serious health problem know very well - that it may be afflicted, there may be anticipation, particularly in the TLPs of large hospitals at on-call time, but that the care that will be given to them is of high quality. We have excellent human resources in the health system. We are now trying to cover his gaps and structural deficits, as he is in primary care and as he is in care after the hospital. I mean rehabilitation, where at this time we are aiming to strengthen existing CFPs and to increase by a hundred and fifty public restoration beds, which are really very inadequate today. In primary care we have a new institution that is in progress. We didn't have a family doctor, Mr. Gregoraco. We had a bankrupt model that closed its cycle from the IKA Polymedics, and we had a model of contracts that also didn't serve the world, the model of two hundred visits that ended in the first days of the month, and the world paid out of its pocket. So we have a new model now, a new philosophy, a more holistic care of people's needs with emphasis on prevention, health care, family and community care. This is a new culture. It is a great bet from which, let me say, it is also the macroeconomic viability of the system, but it is also the quality of the services it provides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point let me announce to you the timely questions on which there is the letter from the Secretary of Government, Mr Kaidazis, on which they will not be discussed. The second question under number 366/18-2-2019 of the first cycle of the Piraeus MP, Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: “Depressing the situation in the Piraeus Group”, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for the Protection of the Citizen, Mr. Olga Gerovasilis, due to the fact that he will be on a government mission outside Athens. The first question under number 365/18-2-2019 of a second question by the Member of the Parliamentary of Attica, Mr Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Police diversions from the South-East Attica departments to strengthen the Police Operations Directorate (MC)", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr.Olga Gerovas, due to the fact that he will be on a government mission outside Athens. The second question under number 367/18-2-2019 in the second time question of the Independent MEP, Dimitrios Koukoutsis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The increase in Roma crime in the Messinia region has exceeded every limit", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Olga Gerovasilis, due to the fact that he will be on a government mission outside Athens. The fourth question under number 338/7-2-2019 is the second time question of the Athens MP of the Democratic Association Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "An insufficient policing - High crime in the municipalities of western Athens", will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Olga Gerovasilis, due to the fact that he will be on a government mission outside Athens. The ninth under number 344/11-2-2019 topical question from the Independent MP from Athens, Eftathiou (Stathi) Panagoulis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "By chemical and trabucism, they tried to dismantle the peaceful palal rally for Macedonia in the Constitution", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Civil Protection Mr. Olga Gerovasilis, because he will be on a government mission outside Athens. The Fifteenth, with No. 299/28-1-2019 topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Integration, Mr. Michael Jeleighis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Increased the intrusion in Serres Law and the Subordinated Police Directorate of Serres", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Olga Gerovasilis, due to the fact that he will be on a government mission outside Athens. The first question with number 1867/25-9-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Protecting the traditional settlement – historical site of Kampos Chios and its surroundings from excessive taxation and landscaping”, will not be discussed in consultation with the Deputy Minister responsible. Finally, the sixth under number 262/9-1-2019 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "An urgent need for an increase in military service" will not be discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, forty-one students and four educational sessions from the 6th grade of Corfu. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would like to inform the students that they are attending the relevant meeting on the discussion of the topical and urgent questions. That is why you see a few Members in the plenary sitting who ask the Minister about a matter of topicality. In the state we are in, the Minister for Health is here to answer health issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u294	Here, Mr. Panagoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u295	Mr President, I would not come to the House if Mrs Gerovalis did have a government mission. A proverb, as we all know, says: "God loves the thief, but also loves the householder." Mrs Gerovas preferred today not to come forward with a reply to six colleagues on the grounds that she is on a government mission. But God loves the thief, also loves the householder. And I will prove now where Mrs Gerovas is at the moment, while she should be here in this Chamber to answer. From the Topical Questions Department of Parliamentary Control, they informed me that they were on a government mission. From the Civilian Ministry, I've been informed that Mrs. Gerovas will not come because she's on a government mission. I would like you to tell me, Mr President, whether this is a government mission. I'll submit it to the Minutes. "The "Creative Renaissance" presents Klisthena". Mrs Gerovasili along with Mr. Danellis and Mr. Tsirka are currently in Arta to support the candidacy of a SYRIZA person. [[At this point, the Independent Member, Efstathos Panagoulis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is a disgrace, Mr President. It's embarrassing to be told that she's on a government mission and at noon Mrs. Gerovasili was in Coboti and ate souvlaki and now she's at this gathering.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u296	Mr. Panagoulis, it's recorded. That answer was given.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u297	Let me finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u298	Let's not go on with where Mrs. Gerovas is. You filed it in the Minutes. It was heard and recorded. On the substance, if you have anything else...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u299	I'm ending with a phrase. Mrs Gerovazis must know that, in order for this Chamber to function again, thousands of people were sacrificed, tortured, exiled, imprisoned during the junta. So Mrs Gerovali cannot underestimate parliamentaryism. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr. Panagoulis. We continue with the discussion of the second under number 4065/5-12-2018 question by the Deputy Dramas of the New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Health, on "with the support of the Polypowerful Doctor Doxatos in the Municipality of Doxatos in the Prefecture of Dramas from the State". Mr. Comrade, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased, Mr Minister, that you are here and not your Deputy Minister, Mr Paulakis, because for three years I have been trying on matters relating to the health of my fellow citizens and, unfortunately, I have not received an answer, I have not seen a positive step. However, I would like to turn to the question which you have tabled and which you have answered today. I would like to believe that I will have a positive response from you and an outcome to the whole question, because last summer the Doxato Polyvalent Doctorate was inaugurated in the Doxato Municipality of Drama, which also operated as an agricultural medical office to provide medical assistance to the inhabitants of the region. This is a primary health care structure, which must be directly supported by the state, as it is called upon to serve a huge territorial area and a particularly large number of patients. Sadly, however, the euphemism of a multi-powered doctor is commanded, as was the case as a pretext for operating as an agricultural doctor, by a single doctor and an assistant nurse, while his function is being made difficult in any case by basic shortages of logistics. As I am told, there is no telephone center, there is no internet connection, there are no computers, there is nothing. What exactly was provided for in the treaty, the convention, I will tell you and then. You may know that. The whole problem is exacerbated in view of the application of the family doctor's institution, as the limitation to two and a half thousand patients is expected to cause serious problems in the normal service of both age-old and young people who are unfortunately emerging. You ask, Minister, what action you will take to resolve the specific problem that I have mentioned, and, secondly, as regards the numerical limitation on the upper limit and number of patients treated, according to your new timetable and organiza­tions, because it is a large territorial area which must be covered in terms of the multivalent medical profession, but, of course, with a number of inhabitants reaching ten thousand. I would like an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u303	Dear colleague, an upgrade to the old Doxato regional office was indeed launched. As of 2012, he joined the NSRF the project of the real estate upgrade of the medical care and equipment. I believe that this intervention has exceeded EUR 800,000 in total. We did what we did at the beginning of 2017, about two years ago, is to set up and establish the organisation and publish on FEK the Agency of the Polyvalent Regional Medical Service, which provides for two positions of qualified doctors and two positions of nurses. Of these, unfortunately, it's over 50%. So we have a doctor and a nurse. But we have a general doctor, a qualified doctor, and not a mere unskilled rural doctor. Is the cover complete? Apparently, it's not. There's been an effort. The nurse has moved from the health center of the city of Drama there and tries the legal district as long as there is a nurse, say, support to the work of the doctor. The technical operational problems have been informed by the agency that they have been resolved. So clearly there is now a wireless internet line, there are two laptops, one for the doctor and one for the nurse, and there is an attempt now, to have a fixed line from OTE to have a connection to the Internet. These are relatively easy. The difficulties are in some such relatively remote parts of the country, mainly having availability in terms of medical potential. You know very well that although we have repeatedly made notices, too many posts of qualified doctors come out in these areas. In my view the political system must maturely discuss a more coherent and attractive setting of incentives for attracting doctors at this time. Unfortunately, our new doctors have emigrated abroad. There is a serious deficit in the country now. The available tank is reduced, and it is known that doctors choose by priority, to cover gaps and needs and locations in large urban centres. As far as the issue with the doctor and the number of people and others is concerned, let us clarify this, dear colleague. Above all, this new institution, which will gradually be implemented in our country, such as in all the other countries of Europe, starts with the new local health units, where we have sufficient staffing, and gradually and without affecting the operation of health centres and regional hospitals, will begin to take place in the rest of the region. So this doctor will continue to serve the people of the region in the same way as now. We are not even going to put a limit on him how many he will consider, of course, to tell him that only those who are registered will consider and the others will ignore them. Alas! In these cases there will be a flexibility and a gradual transition towards a new system, a new model, which we really want to gain citizens' confidence. We want citizens to know that there will be a family doctor who will be mentioned and who will be their first contact with the health system. He will be the man who will not put them in the way and will trouble them but he will guide them, he will advise them on when to be vaccinated, never to make the preventative checkups, when to refer to other more specialized system services and so on. So I think that with an effort guaranteed by the Fourth Health Region that it will do in the next period, we will try to meet as fully as possible with greater completeness the needs of this multivalent medicine. In fact, it is an upgraded hospital with the presence of a regional nurse. I wish we could cover both positions. You know that in every notice that comes out - every two, three months or three months, we are calling for positions of agricultural doctors - general doctors can, as a matter of priority, fill gaps in these regional medical establishments. Obviously I told you that the trend is to get as close as possible to either health centres or urban centres. It is important that there is the EKAV station there and there is - from what I have been informed - a rapid response, if need be cross-border. We understand that the population of the region needs and has demanded the fullest possible care. I think that at a relatively balanced distance there is also the Footsan Health Centre, which is organically owned by this regional hospital and also by Drama’s Hospital. We are trying to develop a little better the network of the EKA and the ambulances, whenever a more specialized care is needed, to dismantle the incidents and secure proper care.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mr Kyriazidis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u305	Minister, we have been acquainted for some thirty years and the correctness with which you have been placed helps me, as well as the society that is watching us. Honestly and this morning, I contacted this medical office. There's no equipment, I'm telling you. They may have informed you wrongly. I don't know why. You can see it. I would like to believe that, after your presence here and intervention, there will be a solution to the whole question, because more than 200,000 euros have been allocated - in introductory terms - for this equipment. So something's going on. We'll have to see. Not even one phone call has been made. It's a matter. I would like to say that it is inconsistent - let me say this - of the primary care with what you referred to, with the Fourth ICM based in Thessaloniki. It is not possible there to know in eastern Macedonia and Thrace what happens in the multi-medical hospitals or a multi-powered one. In this case, a surveillance cannot be carried out. I do not understand why it could not be linked to the general hospital, the central one - I would say - to a treatment point in the county. And because, of course, you cannot know all about Greece, how these doctorates are geographically positioned, I would like to tell you that the Center for Health of Protosani is on the opposite side of Drama, that is to say, to get to Doxato, where the polytherapy is, you have to pass the city of Drama to come to Doxato, 13 km of Prototsani - Drama and so much more of Drama for Doxato. So you know we're suffering somewhere. We should look at this issue. Minister, because you are the Minister of Health - because you have referred to a previous colleague of mine in terms of risk, disaster, and so on - I should like to say: there are three specialist doctors who are daily inaugurating a clinic of fifty-two beds. I'm talking about the Pathological Clinic Drama. It is twenty-four hours a day in full detail, because pathology is forced to cover other specialties. There's no pneumonologist, there's no gastroenterologist, there's no neurologist, there's no anesthesiologist. Every day twenty-four hours a day is the complete operation of the specific pathological clinic. Under the existing conditions they cannot guarantee the provision of safe and quality health services. Likewise, they cannot guarantee their own safety, mental and physical. I'm not saying it. You're going to say I'm making an opposition speech. That's just the hard reality, and we're told here by the three special pathologists present at that clinic. There's five more missing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It's a huge problem. I met them, went to see their work, and I honestly felt really bad. They're getting to a hysterical point. I'm telling you, honestly. The fact that someone will be in subsidiary for twenty or thirty days, you understand that it does not save the situation. I would therefore ask you to see this. It's about the whole county. You understand that. It is not possible for three specialist pathologists to be able to deal with this situation. Specialized don't come, Minister. And the ones they are, they leave under these circumstances. I would ask you to see the whole thing personally. I have been applying many times for Mr Polakis, and I have not been able to respond. I'll give you the memo and the doctors of pathology. And I'd beg for what you're committed to. Unfortunately, my county has a great "hardness". Besides, it's the poorest county in the country, we have a huge problem with the issue of cancer. Four and a half thousand cancer patients were forced to go to Thessaloniki last year and another seven hundred to Alexandroupolis, in order to deal with issues and their relatives are suffering. You were committed that, at least by the beginning of 2018, there would be a section of chemotherapy in the hospital, so that these patients would not be troubled. Unfortunately, there was not the slightest move. I'm transferring you, if you like, this disappointment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u306	Come on, Mr. Comrade, please. It's very important, and that's why I've shown tolerance, but you've reached five minutes. Please finish this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u307	Thank you. It is a huge issue of the cancer patients, their own, but also of the whole society that bears them the whole thing with their own presence and their protests, because there is no response from the other side. I believe, Minister, that you will be listening at least to the issue of the chemotherapy department and to the strengthening of pathology at one point, to see it personally so that it can be strengthened and, if you like, even a fundamental step in dealing with the health of my compatriots.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u309	First of all, I should like to close the issue of primary care structures a little bit. Obviously, the planning of health regions is particularly problematic. There are only seven sanitary districts to cover the whole country. There is indeed a need for supervision, and that is why, in the plan, we have the Fourth Health Region to break and there is a separate East Macedonian Ministry of Macedonia Thrace. We've discussed this. I think we will be able in the next few months to have a next draft institutional reorganisation bill that we have launched to legislate and to have better supervision. I agree that it is difficult for Thessaloniki to supervise all health centres and all primary care structures, apart from hospitals in such a large region. That's the one. The second concerns the hospital. There really now you're getting me a little unprepared from the point of view that I don't have the exact picture. I know Drama Hospital is one of the hospitals that have more difficulty than other hospitals in the wider region. I will be briefing myself and I will be asking to have an accurate picture of the positions that have been published and of the responses that have been made to these notices. Obviously, if there are only three pathologists in the Pathological Clinic and there is not even an adjunct doctor, it is problematic that staffing is causing particular difficulties and burdens people to respond to their role. We have the deficit of the skilled, and this, unfortunately, concerns the country as a whole. It is now beginning to involve large hospitals in the centre, where we have vacancies. I think that this is the real serious threat to our health system. It is not the existing problems and difficulties in infrastructure, buildings, machinery and equipment, etc. The great deficit today is the deficit of qualified doctors. If we fail to convince the new doctors in the country that training can slowly be upgraded during the course of specialisation - and we do a very important job at this time in the ERCH, to have a single training programme that is applied everywhere, to have logbooks to record the skills that the resident needs to acquire - there is a serious care for their training, if this is not done and if the signal is not given that there is a chance of decent employment in the country and of scientific development, I think that this difficulty will be prolonged and troubled by the permanent doctors, who are indeed tired, old, etc. Fortunately we also have subsidiary doctors, this critical mass, which has come at some point to be about three thousand people in the public health system, who have covered very catalysts, gaps that have been in all these years of the crisis and because of the continuous withdrawal of pensions without replacement. That is what I think is the answer. I think the priority for Drama Hospital is the good functioning of the pathological clinic, which is a clinic that is a hub pillar for a provincial hospital. The issue of treating cancer patients and operating a chemotherapy unit is a reasonable request, but you know that it is not always very easy to implement, find oncologists, find appropriate support. In other words, I think that in terms of plaiting, let's go to cover the first urgent need...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u310	There's an oncologist who wants to go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u311	I didn't know that. Okay. Let's see, first of all, the organic positions. For us, I want you to know this and this is my commitment. We will soon have a new package of permanent doctors' notices in the health system. In the next few days, we are completing our consultation with the Ministry of Administrative Reform and we will be proclaiming them. We will give a priority - in this I am absolute - to hospitals that we have now recorded and not only are the Hospital of Drama, but there are other hospitals, particularly in areas that are inaccessible, aggressive, island, etc., so that in critical specialities and critical sections such as pathological clinics, pediatric clinics, anesthesiological departments, laboratories, can give an opportunity to call places such as to attract doctors. To increase the salaries of doctors, my dear fellow Member, in such a way that we are dramatically increasing the turnout, we cannot do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u312	Minister, if you please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u313	But we can, by strengthening the staffing of the system and thus reducing the burden that current doctors accept, by improving the conditions of continuing education, while observing - and I stress that we have implemented this - and having ensured a regularity in the payments of doctors and other staff, giving the possibility, as we now have, to retroactively to hospital doctors, which I think was a very important financial aid that they have accepted these days, at the beginning of 2019...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u315	We give a signal that, in fact, we want to invest in public care, so that both the staff and the doctors feel that the state supports them but also the citizens feel safe that it does not need the time of illness, that they move away from their place to have good services.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u316	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-02-25-S1-commons.u317	With the consent of the House at 20.24 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 26 February 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, according to the agenda distributed.
