ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the debate on topical questions, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: 'Promoting essential gender equality, preventing and combating racial violence - Regulations on the award of citizenship - Provisions on elections to local government - Other provisions on the responsibility of the HORIs'. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We will begin with the third under number 413/8-32019, a topical question by the Independent MEP I of Athens, Mr Spyridonos Lykoudis, to the Minister of Health, on the state of implementation of the reform of the health sector. The question will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos. Mr. Lykoudis, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the much-discussed and well-expected institution of the family doctor and the local health units that you intend to contribute to the radical reform of the healthcare sector in our country and to the renewal of primary health care services I think that there is - I hope I will be mistaken - retreat or be in a declaration, 'no', as I say in my question. Despite your repeated announcements by the Prime Minister and despite the invitations to show interest by health professionals, the pace of reform is extremely subtonic, and several of which are the publications, which I have also received to ask you, that there are significant deficiencies in the staffing of health units and malfunctions. All this is happening almost four years after the announcement of this strategy, which included the family doctor and local health units, and while there are, as far as I know, the Community funds to support this reform, I ask you: Of the two hundred and thirty-nine local health units that were set up in the original design, I think there are a hundred and seven units all around Greece. Do you think this pace of implementation of the reform is satisfactory? I would also like to ask you: How do you guarantee universal coverage of the population by these local health units, when they apply to half of them and, above all, to urban areas? One of the 'thousand points of action for universal coverage' has been implemented, I think, half of them and with what percentage of success? Do you have any evaluations of this effort? Finally, I ask you: from the guaranteed co-financed funds of the sectoral and regional programmes of the NSRP 2014-2020, what is the actual rate of absorption and how many integrated projects have been completed? Thank you and I look forward to your answer with interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. The Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, will answer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u4	My dear colleague, I think it is indeed an interesting question, because it is about the Ministry's strategic planning and the actions we have submitted for funding from the NRP in the current programming period by 2020. I would like to remind you that the design for this ESDP, in 2014-2020, took place in 2013 and there was neither sectoral health programme nor a thematic health-related axis. Essentially, a NSRF was designed that was outside central planning. What we have done, my dear colleague, is to form a proposal. Under Axis 9 to deal with the poverty of the European Social Fund, and by an analysis that the crisis, the poverty of society, the desirability of the population - which has been found to have lost their security capacity and not institutionally access to the public health system - has created a healthcare poverty zone in the country, we have considered that just to deal with this health poverty, we can propose actions that are eligible to be financed. We've made a very big effort. We have convinced the European institutions, the institutions of the European Community, that priority is given to primary health care in this project, and secondly to the resumption of psychiatric reform, which has also been placed in the years of the crisis, and thirdly, they have been interventions in the area of dependency. This was a package of around EUR 180,000,000 for actions related to the European Social Fund, namely reformist changes and interventions, not improving infrastructure, equipment, etc. It is also from the European Regional Development Fund, the ERDF. Of course, there was the legislative regulation, which was, I remind you, in August 2017. It's not four years, that is. In fact, it has been a year and a half since the legislature of No.4486/2017 establishing the idea of local health units, the family doctor as a nuclear element of this change, of the health team assisting the family doctor, because we said that primary care is a multidisciplinary case, it cannot only be for the doctor. It concerns both the nurse and the social worker and the visiting health. It concerns the emphasis to be placed on prevention and health care, community intervention, etc. In our view it is a very innovative model, which is, of course, in the phase of its gradual development with difficulties and problems. I would remind you, however, that for the first time since the National Health System was introduced, we have a regulation on primary health care that is being implemented. In the past there have been five - at least six such reform initiatives and legislation, which have been left in the drawers of ministries. Why did they stay in the drawers of the ministries? The political explanation is very simple. Because it was agreed by the political forces responsible for the Ministry and the country all these years that the primary health care sector is a privileged place for the private sector to be active and did not want an extended presence of the public health system in this area. After a year and a half, it has become a very important administrative, management, organisational and operational step. Very important! We have a hundred and twenty, these are the latest elements, new public structures. This in crisis, under restrictions, in very difficult and intimate conditions, in my view is not in any way inconsistent. We have about 50% of the structures we had prescribed to be in operation, they serve over a thousand health professionals, of whom about three hundred are family doctors, i.e. doctors of general medical, pathology and paediatrics. These structures vary their staffing and functionality, but we have a very large volume of free exams. More than seven hundred thousand free examinations have been carried out from these structures, which have so far not existed in the health system, whether it concerns prescribing or monitoring of sufferers, etc. About two million citizens have been registered at this time in family doctors and local health establishments and health centres and associated with the EEAS and about one tenth of them have an activated personal electronic health file. We are not happy with the speed with which this intervention is moving, but we really believe that a huge effort has been made. It should be noted that it is an action implemented by public bodies, by health regions and not by AMEs, by civil non-profit companies, as most of the projects relating to ESDP resources have been in the past. It was a very big step and it was a great management challenge. We have done them very well in general in the management and absorption of these resources and there are reports from the Commission, the managing authorities, the NRP monitoring committee, etc., which confirm this and the great effort we are now doing is by means of a new notice to increase the number of available family doctors. There's real difficulty there. Because, my dear colleague, the truth is that we do not have the response we would have expected and we would have liked, not because - because this has been said many times - doctors turn their backs to, supposedly, a state-run model of government or I don't know what, in the Ministry's plan, but mainly because the available tank has been reduced in the country. Immigrated abroad eighteen thousand doctors. We have ensured that Members I pay, not the system's introductory grade, net earnings, i.e. around EUR 1.650, which I think is not an accurate amount for that period that the country is going through and for the total wages that exist in both the public and private sectors. We will make an effort in the next period to speed up the steps. We had difficulties finding buildings, etc. I really think that we are trying to organise a hundred and twenty structures that are small multimedicals, with decent spaces and a good evaluation from local communities. You can investigate this. We have a very good response from the population that is served and we are also in a phase that we are slowly starting and evaluating this action. We're making public reports. We have already made a central statement of one year from the functioning of the reform, both in the presence of the World Health Organisation and the Commission officials. The picture is very good and is considered a reform step taken by the Greek government very critically in an area where there was a great deficit by the establishment of the ESS.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Independent MP I of Athens, Mr Spyridon Lykoudis, speaks for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u6	The fact that your prototype has kept a tenth minute, despite the fact that it is an infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I consider it a very positive point, because I think that the content of my question has been successful, to force you to do so extensively on the subject. I can assure you that my question recorded my personal concern for a reform that, in my opinion, is important and is charged with the positive effects of your own ministerial activity. That's why I tried to get the information I needed to make it clean, to get clean answers. I have the impression that you have taken the lead from the outset in reporting what had happened so far to the previous ones. At some point this story has to end. I ask you to write down your own action as Minister with positive elements for this particular reform, to tell me why it has not gone ahead, and I think that the honesty with which you are responding to the fact that there are delaying problems due here or there is convinced that the question I do actually have absolutely realistic elements. For example, I would like a more specific answer. This reform, which came with local health units to make the infamous and well-famous decongested decongestion in the communication of patients with the hospitals, did it work? So, has this decongestion really been? Are there these gate keepers that you tried to build with local health units, so that patients wouldn't come to hospitals for a long time? Is this reform catching a large proportion of the population or am I right when I say that about half of the population is caught and there is a very serious issue with regard to specific qualifications and specific areas? For example, what about the pediatricians? What about the islands and the remote regions? In Syros, Lesvos, Samos, Chios, Kos, Kalymnos and Naxos there are about a hundred pediatricians and there is no pediatrician through this system and this reform. What's going on with this story? I would also like to make a point to you, because I think that too many things I wanted to tell you have been caught in your prototype and has nothing to do with repeating the issues, but truly, do you think that the non-positive response to the extent that you would like doctors in this invitation is because only doctors migrate? I'll try to say it as elegantly as I can, so I won't create any issues for the doctors themselves. Is there a doubt about the long-lasting institution? Do the doctors have such a doubt and they don't come? Are there low pay in your opinion? Is that enough evidence you gave us for their wage records? Is their employment status confirmed in the sense of prospects or uncertain? If that is the case, then, I think that there are more than the existing and certain evidence that there are immigrant doctors, because there may be better conditions abroad. I would like you, if possible, to reply with a little more specific information about what I am asking you, because I repeat - I want to say it again because I want it to be registered - I consider this reform to be essential. And because I think it's also based on the help of the World Health Organisation - don't I? - for which, of course, this support also began at the time of the previous Minister, Mr Georgiadi, I think, but is still being supported by the World Health Organisation, should it not be better, Minister, the image? I say this, I repeat, with a good deal of criticism, because I believe that reform is serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after being informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELETERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-two students and students as well as two teachers attending the 5th Grade Vereas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Tell the students that they are following one of Parliament's two functions. One is to legislate, to come bills, to debate, to vote and to be the law of the state. The second function, which you are following today, is the one called parliamentary control. The government is controlled, the ministers are controlled by all the Members of Parliament and a certain procedure is followed by a debate which is also broadcast by television, so that there is a control of the executive, the government, by the Members of Parliament, who are representatives of the people. We are now discussing a question to the Minister for Health, Mr Blonde, who is present, by the Independent MEP Mr Lykoudi. The debate is taking place alternately. The Minister will now close, cheating on the honourable Member's question, in his second language. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u8	My dear colleague, I would like to say that this reform, in my view, has been the most important reluctance of the establishment of the National Health System. Let me say that it was his achilles heel that we did not have an organised system of public primary care services, especially in urban centres. There was this distortion of the parallel system that IKA had, which completed its cycle in a particularly - so I would say - authoritarian way in 2014, which was massively exodused to an exit of about two and a half to three thousand qualified doctors, completely destabilized the public structures in the urban centres and there was a large gap in care. We said, therefore, that this reform would first of all be developed in the urban centres, because that is where we thought there was a great deficit. In the countryside there are health centers, regional medical establishments, obviously those with staff problems, particularly in the islands and in ferocious and difficult areas. We thought, however, that today's priority was to cover the population of urban centres, which, with socio-economic data, was in a position far more precarious than the rest of the population, I mean access to health services. We made a landscaping distribution all over the country. It turned out that the interest in some areas was too limited. The subject of Brain Drain and medical immigration cannot be underestimated. This is the big problem today in the country's public health system and, let me say, it is the great threat to its stability and its prospects. So we made this intervention. We have convinced the Commission that this is an innovative action that is eligible expenditure and can be financed. We have made a very serious intervention quickly to develop the greatest possible number of structures, which are now taking their first steps. That is why I cannot accept the criticism that says that the institution has collapsed. A institution cannot be judged and assessed before it even finishes its development and its intervention in health care and the quality of public care in the country begins to begin to be reflected. I therefore believe that we are in a phase of gradual and difficult and delayed development. That's very critical. This is how it has been done in all the countries of Europe. Nowhere in reforms in primary care and family doctors did anyone press a button and the next day there was developed and covering the entire population. There are countries in Europe, such as Portugal, which have been reforming them for ten to fifteen years and have still not been able to cover 100% of the population. So this is an intervention that will have time for its full implementation and for the needs of society. It is an intervention that has macroeconomic sustainability. You know very well that Europeans do not approve and finance reform interventions and actions unless there is a guaranteed exit strategy from European funding and its migration gradually into financial instruments related to national resources. We have presented such a strategy in Europe. We have convinced that there is sustainability in the system, and that is why it is also without object the criticism that says that this action will end when the money is done and people and structures stay in the air. It is a national strategy, my dear fellow Member, this intervention and it is a national matter, let me say. The institution is innovative. There hasn't been any so far in the country. We had doctors assembled with the EEA, but they did not have the culture, education, the philosophy of the family doctor, that is, a man who has the responsibility for holisticly and fully, and then meet the needs of a citizen from prevention, vaccination, pre-symptoms, proper monitoring of chronic diseases, until he is referred to other levels of the system. The main reason for the reform is not simply to reduce the flow of patients to hospitals, which is, of course, legitimate. Because, today, they are conspiring in hospitals, particularly in emergency departments, cases of at least two-thirds primary character, which could have been dealt with at a stage before and not to trouble hospital staff and not to trouble citizens themselves, as is often the case. The main reason for the reform in primary care is to change the centre of weight that is currently in care, hospitality and hospital, transfer it to prevention, health care, community-wide care, and prevent the disease-insurance factors in the socio-economic environment. That's the new philosophy. I think it really is an investment that has a long time to pay off. We shall proceed, as I said before, with these difficulties every day. It is important that the number of local health units is slowly increasing. Our target is by summer to have reached a hundred and fifty. This change will be very important. You know that these structures have done hundreds of information activities in schools, interventions in vulnerable populations caring for prosperous structures, in daily care centres for elderly people, in the CAP, collaborate with "Help at Home", doing information activities for patients' associations in the regions. These structures have an extroversion. It is another culture that I think will move forward and will actually contribute to the overall reorganisation of the landscape. For the islands now, what you're talking about is very important. What do we do with the islands? All right with the urban centers. With the islands, with the barren areas, what about the province? There the idea that we have introduced a few days ago and we are now organising how it will be implemented is to have mobile primary health care units, which will have an organic relationship with a rural-type health centre. It will therefore be a group, which will be assigned to doctors, dentists, midwife, nurses, health visitors, laboratory technicians, social worker, drivers, and which can intervene in areas where we have old people with difficulties in moving and accessing public structures, people who do not have the possibility of easy coverage even of their prescribing needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u9	Are we going to have doctors?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u10	And doctors, of course. I tell you that we are giving employment opportunities and with all that growth is a great investment. We really hope to give a signal to the excellent doctors from our country who are currently stadiuming abroad, which most of them have finished Greek universities, has invested in their education, that there is a decent professional and scientific perspective in their country. We must also give a signal that it is worth the effort to turn back and serve and contribute to a major reform. I think that's our message. The aim is to implement a political plan that says universal coverage and equal coverage of people's health needs through an upgraded public health system focusing on primary care. This is a comprehensive title.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u11	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u12	This intervention is very critical. It can't be deceived - I don't mean from you - from various aspects. And the truth is that we have several reactions and trade unions and policies, which, in fact, are trying to degrade this new institution in its first steps. I think this is wrong and everyone must understand the great importance of this reform.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Minister. The fourth under number 412-3-2019 topical question for the first cycle of Congressman I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Confidence of Staff of the House", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The first question under number 416/12-32019 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiotas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Trudical staff shortages at Kilkis Hospital", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Paul Paul Polakis, due to a workload. The second question under number 414/8-32019 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Independence Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukouou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Procedures for manoeuvres against the services provided with the ending of the Pathological Clinic of the Amalada Hospital", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Paul Polakis, due to a workload. The third, with number 421/12-3-2019, timely question for the first cycle of MP for the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Giannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In suspension of operation the Surgery Clinic of the General Hospital of Kilkis due to lack of staff", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, due to a workload. The tenth under No. 316/29-1-2019 topical question by MP Laconia of Democratic Integration Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delays in the passage of patients from the EKA in intensive treatment facilities due to the lack of medical staff", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Paul Polakis, due to a workload. Elections under number 332/5-2-2019 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on "the chronic problems of the Psychiatric Clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI)", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Paul Polakis, due to a workload. The twelfth under number 329/4-2-2019 topical question from the New Democracy MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Creation of a Bran Branch / Oncological Clinic at the General Hospital of Drama", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis, due to a workload. Finally, the thirteenth question, number 322/4-2-2019, on the second question of the Member of the Democratic Association, Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Exceedances of chemical treatments", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, on account of a workload. The first item under number 417/12-3-2019 will be debated now under the second question of the Attica MP Mr Georgios Vlachos to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: ‘Police diversions from the South-East Attica departments to strengthen the Police Operations Directorate (MC)’. The question will be answered by the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Olga Gerovalis. Mr. Vlao, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. A timely question that is being discussed a month after the statement, you can understand that it is no longer timely, and much more when questions are pending for about two months and the discussion time has not yet been determined. I have listened to the postponements of all these previous topical questions, and I must say that these phenomena degrade Parliament. You can understand that these are degenerative phenomena and we are all responsible, particularly the Bureau and, of course, the members of the government. Madam Minister, today's question was tabled on the occasion of the order to strengthen GATS issued by the GATS, which involved the secondment of a hundred police officers. The order from the Headquarters of the Greek Police was issued at the beginning of February and caused a disturbance for the forced choice of police officers from remote services, but also for the selective exception of those who serve to guard the so-called vulnerable targets, among them, who may also have many government officials. From there, Minister, you would abolish MATs, abolish other services to strengthen MATs. That's the reality today. I am obviously referring to that pre-election declaration on the abolition of MDGs. Aid with a hundred police officers typically means the creation of five doubles, but, in fact, the reinforcement of the weakened divisions is being attempted, as most of them do not go beyond what I hear, twelve or fifteen police officers from the twenty - twenty-five people should have. At the same time, police officers denounce the extortion of the hundred police officers, regardless of their desire, with the commander of each service having the privilege of choice, because, yes, the order asks the police directors to send the information of the police officers who wish to be seconded to the Police Operations Department, but if no guests come, each agency is asked to choose that one and to send evidence of the police officers who are to be seconded. Moreover, as the trade unions have reported, they say that the MATs were mainly staffed with young police officers coming out of the police schools and receiving the training required, and now a staffing with older people who are not - if you like - and similar training. Madam Minister, in the south-eastern Attica there are twelve police departments and twelve security departments. All twelve police stations operate at 50% of their organic force. In the security sections, of the twelve, only three operate 24/7 and only one in the eastern Attica. The rest of the nine closes from 11 o'clock to seven o'clock in the morning. The Security Departments of Alimos, Greek, Argyroupoli in southern Attica and Koropi, Markopoulos, Keratea, Kalyvia, Lavrio and Anavyssos in eastern Attica remain locked in the evening. It is clear that the existing staff are not enough to meet daily needs. In order to serve exceptional situations, i.e. to strengthen other services, daily rests are suspended and hours of service are changed at the last minute. If this is added to the fixed obligation to carry out on a daily and twenty-four-four patrol base, which, in my opinion, is in the right direction, as it is based on the apparent policing and prevention and diversion of unlawful actions, it is obvious that a climate of suffocation is being created in the already understaffed services. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Vlavo. The Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Olga Gerovali, has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Vlao, we'll agree on one thing, that there's a hypotension to the Greek police. I shall begin with the main subject of your question, and we shall, by the way, refer to the others. There was a request from trade unions, as well as from the Police Operations Department, to strengthen the Police Operations Department. As you have said, the men who serve there come after school trained. They are, however, taking more molecules and at some point - five, seven years accordingly - moving, moving and constantly creating gaps. The Athens Police Directorate responded to this request and thus issued an order for about a hundred distractions from the Athens Departments, Piraeus, Northeast, Southeast and West Attica. The distractions were on a voluntary basis. The response was a small one, that is, for the whole story of which the fuss was made, finally twelve policemen asked to be voluntarily moved to the respective addresses. It's just that, twelve policemen. Only this figure shows that one of these twelve people from the Southeast, North-East and West Attica Departments obviously does not show the sub-secretory of the addresses you mentioned. At the same time, the minimum gaps from these 12 movements will be covered by the 2019 regular transfers. The Police Headquarters for the Directorate-General of Athens called for fifteen posts of lieutenants, forty state officers, chiefs, guards and police officers, and thirty special guards. This is the whole story for twelve cops in the end, because obviously this move would not take place for reasons that you mentioned. In my dentistry, I'm going to talk about the other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Vlao, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, agreeing to the fact that there is a subdelegation in Eastern Attica means nothing. You know, in particular in the summer months, from now on and until autumn, in East Attica, we have a population explosion, because on the beaches, many of our fellow citizens come from Athens and you understand that the needs are even bigger. Of course, all year round there is a need for policing homes and general property of residents, whether they live there or not. I now come to the request for aid. Yes, he did. You said that so far they'd come out of the school of trained police officers and go to the Operations Department. After a few years they left. Now, those who left - that is, those who have a somewhat older age - are actually asking to bring them back, because they are in police stations. They are the ones who are now calling to come to reinforce, namely those who left, not themselves, some others, but with the same characteristics. The most important thing is that you said 'voluntary'. The circular does not say "voluntary". Of course it says 'those who wish', but if the number of 'those who wish' is not there, the commander can, it is obliged to send some people. So that until now twelve people have left, yes, I will agree - if you will - that the gap is not great. But, you know, if they left so far, the first month twelve and leave twelve next month and twelve in the third month, you understand that the problem is getting worse. That's why I told you that I asked the timely question right away to catch up with us, to weaken. So if this is now done in part, so to 'press' that we say, understand it, assimilate it, the essence will be what I said, that the dehumidified police stations are actually weakened further. The needs are great and the insecurity of the citizens - you know - grows. Because only in hearing that police are leaving, that all of this is weakened, you understand that there is a great deal of anxiety. Because we're one day after sad episodes, let me make a report too. And I guess you will. Yesterday we witnessed these great sad episodes on the field. I would like to say to you that the government at last has to deal with these phenomena as appropriate and effectively as possible. It cannot continue to be an observer. Some time ago we had such phenomena in Piraeus and yesterday on two or three fields. It seems that this is a general phenomenon. I would say that the absence of a particular effective policy creates, if you like, the appetite for such phenomena by some people who are aiming to jeopardise even our lives of fellow citizens. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr Vlacho, and the reference you made to yesterday's sad events. I'm guessing the Minister will report too. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u20	This image does not honor anyone. Of course it's not an honor for Greek football. Of course, this is not the time to expand a lot. However, we should understand - and I think we all understand - that this is a multifactorial issue and it is not just a question of the Greek police. The Greek police have a role outside the stadiums.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u21	That is why I said 'the government'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u22	Sure. However, it is a matter that concerns us and the Ministry of Sport and is a complex real issue. On the part of your question - to close it - twelve volunteers moved. The procedure has stopped, there is no longer such procedure in progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u23	Is it stopping?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u24	It's already stopped. So there's no question of subscribing. But what I agreed to and with you at first is that the police are responsible. But that, Mr Vlavo, did not automatically arise. The Greek Police in the last ten years of the memoranda have been part of the rules, as you know, and I mean the financial rules and the matching of recruitments - departures. Including the people who enter the police schools. That's where the number starts and counts, because they automatically enter the service after the completion of their studies. In recent years, this figure has been reduced - every year - for so many years - dramatically. They are currently importing - up to the last year - about a hundred or fifty people, who - as you can see - together with the small number of the retired persons - because there are those who are retired - plus the fact that the modern needs of the last decade, as is expected, are always larger and much more complex and complex, that is to say, the ones that are being perpetrated by the Greek Police, all of which has created a second-largest, which is not easy to deal with, because financial constraints exist and still exist. But what has an interest is that, first, the six thousand organic positions in the Greek Police were abolished when Mr Mitsotakis was Minister at the Ministry of Administrative Reform. Then in this year's ICU, it was formulated by him that no more recruitments are needed to the Greek Police and that they are enough. The exact same position has been made by your other members, later on, after Mr. Mitsotakis. So there is, on the one hand, 'we do not need' and on the other hand there is'support'. You'll have to end up. I do not mean personally, Mr Vlavo, but as a political body you must stand more seriously. Allow me, because I was in the process of the whole negotiation of the last memorandum, to say that with great trouble we have convinced foreigners and partners that the rule 'one to four', 'one to five' recruitments - left terrible gaps in the social state and in the necessary structures of the state, like the Greek Police. We managed to do the "one to one" for 2019. Your party has been accused. And Mr Mitsotakis' announcements are that if he is elected, if he comes to things, the next day he will bring back the "one to five". These are contradictions to which you should give an answer, because we are struggling to support it and strive to broaden the number of recruitments, to serve the state and all the socially critical sectors of the state, and the police are such an institution. How will it be served, Mr Vlavo, if the rule of departure goes to 'one to five', so we should turn to 'the newly recruited 50 or 100'? How are you going to do what you're saying? This is a great contradiction, which is constantly in the public interest by all your members and you will allow me to say that it is not a mere contradiction, it is deliberate and conscious. On the one hand, we say that the police are under-represented, that infrastructure is lacking and that we are trying through this and with a 'bad' government, which does not want the police and which does not want the security of the citizen, to be afraid of the citizen. You are constantly saying'supported', not only in questions, but it is heard by many fellow Members. Questions came and came to the previous ministry I was, to the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, with reports everywhere on "supported". But the rule must be 'one to five'. Do you realize that what is said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u25	You have not taken any initiative, which we did not support.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u26	Recruitment? Look, it's finally hard when a legislative initiative comes to deny it, because it's seen by society, people hear it. It's obviously hard. However, we are accused of provoking the state against the private sector, that Greek taxpayers' money is being smashed by the government to make a client state and all this nonsense.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u27	Maybe both of them apply, you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u28	You know, rationally, the numbers go hand in hand with the country's economic potential, because the country must not be derailed. Our needs are more than we do to doctors and to staff - as was discussed in the previous question with Mr Xanthos - but also with the police. And as soon as we increase the number, we hear the phrase 'is the money of the taxpayers who the SYRIZA Government is was wasted'. This can't happen together. Therefore, when you talk about subscribing, Members who support 'one to five', the rule of recruitment and departures, you should rethink it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Minister. The second under number 420/12-3-2019 topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis to the Minister of Finance on "ELVO S.A. '', it will not be discussed because of an impediment by the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The seventh question under number 355/12-2-2019 of a second question by the Athens MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, concerning "the assignment of real estate to a Public Real Estate Company (ETAD) - Fund for the Development of the Private Property of the Government (TAPID)", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, due to a workload. The eighth Question No 350/11-2-2019 by Mr Georgios Vlachos, Member of the Attica Parliament, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Support Account of the National Bank of Greece (LEPETE)" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The ninth under number 351/11-2-2019 a topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association, Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukouou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The feasibility and moderation of the transfer to the UltraStreet as demanded by the lenders of 50 properties of the public in the Municipality of Pyrgos", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr. Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The first question with number 2932/31-10-2018 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP II of the Democratic Association Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Democracy of the Municipal Closed Gymnasium of the 2nd High School of Athens", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, due to a workload. The sixth question, under number 375/20-2-2019, is a second question by MP II of the Democratic Integration Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Participation of Greece in the European Union's defence cooperation", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Evangelos Apostolakis. The fourteenth under number 262/9-1-2019 is a topical question for the second cycle of the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "An urgent need to increase military service", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of National Defence, Evangelos Apostolakis. The fourth question under number 384/26-2-2019 will now be discussed in the Second Cycle of the Hercules MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Accessions related to the Primary Health Care in Heraklion Law and the extension of the Cardiopaths Intensive Monitoring Unit (MPC) to the University Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI)". The question will be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos. Mr Igoumenides has the floor for two minutes to develop his question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that our government's political choice to support the public health system, which will ensure the universal and equal access of our fellow citizens to high-level health services, which will be subject to social and economic control. You have also referred to the previous question that has been raised, the financial difficulties and the budgetary closeness through which this proposal is progressing. Nevertheless, I believe, Minister, that if I may quote one comment in my own question in the previous debate, the Left's proposal is based on the agreement of the majority of workers in the public health system and has the universal acceptance of the poor, weak, weaker economic strata, those who really need such a health system. That is why, with all the difficulties, I am really convinced that this left-wing proposal will go ahead and go ahead. In this political direction of the Ministry of Health, the Health Region of Crete, for various reasons - possibly in terms of respect for my colleagues, I should like to refer to them in my dentistry - the planning of the Ministry has gone one step further. We were, with regard to the planning of the Ministry, a step forward compared with the other health regions. Of all this plan, which we had done on the health map, I kept some of the elements that I included in my question. Firstly, with regard to the buildings in this flagrant intervention of the Left for Greece - emblematic, I believe, for the primary care of the urban fabric of our country - namely the building of IKA, Agios Minas, in our design was intended to become a standard civil-type health centre, that is, a health centre, which will train doctors. You yourself said to the previous colleague that not all family doctors have the culture of primary health care, prevention culture and other elements. We want and designed education and practice in this standard health center to be part of general doctors' education, a part and part of their specialty. We wanted and designed, in collaboration with the TEI, to be an element of education for the rest of the staff, paramedical, nursing and other personnel. We did this whole discussion and design in May 2015, that is, when there was a discussion in Heraklion to become a small mall, a shopping center in the respective building. In May 2015, we exchanged letters, I personally as Commander of the Health Region with Mr. Theonas - then Commander of the IKA - to grant the use of this building that is owned by IKA. In the same correspondence we asked for the IKA building of Hersonissos, a building that we wanted to house also a urban health centre. You yourself said before about areas that had been delivered to the private sector. The Municipality of Hersonissos, with the thousands of four hundred hotel units delivered to it, is one of the few municipalities in the country that had no health center. At the same time, we predicted that the IKA of Hersonissos is based in the EKA - the EKAB station is housed in a container, a few meters next to the building which remains closed - and a seat of the regional public health laboratory. While in our contacts together, which you know about this proposal and in contacts with the Ministry of Labour, I had no negative answer, it is worth wondering that these two buildings have not yet been granted for use in the Ministry of Health. I have tabled a question to the Minister of Labour and I am waiting for her answer. I shall refer briefly to two other issues. In our design, based on the movement of the population and the analysis of the health map, two new doctorates were planned in Matala and Bagionia, reporting to you the specific areas of Heraklion, following the population and replacing other medical establishments. As you said, we don't close any health structures, we'll open new ones where they need to. Even at a recent meeting I had, within six months, with the Secretary of the Ministry of Health, who is responsible for primary health care, the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Health, just repeated this position: we will do the practice in Matala, we will make the medicine in Bagionia, we will make use of the love of the people in Stavies, despite the fact that it did not come out of the health map. Even the residents themselves have equipped a medical facility that would envy many regional medical establishments and not just Heraklion. These doctorates, despite the fact that I see a positive response from everywhere, have not yet been institutionalised. And the last is this: PANGNE's Cardiology Unit. You know that in the heartbeat - as a doctor you know, Minister - time is life. Time to deal with is a quality of life for those recovering from myocardial infarction. Next to PPAGNE's cathedral room - the hospital's hall separates them - there is a room with seven ICU beds, seven beds that can fully support breathing, kidney, heart function. First of all, let me make it clear that, from a discussion with the Director of Cardioperatives and the Director of Cardiologics, we had concluded that in the design of the ICU, this seven-bed section must have a cardiologist, an anesthesiologist and an intensive entrepreneur. It was launched and hired as an anaesthetic assistant and intensifier. However, this unit never opened up, these doctors, despite being recruited as subsidiary for this unit, have never worked in this unit. Recently, the Ministry - and very well did - covered all the needs of ITH personnel throughout the country. Why was this unit excluded?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u31	Good. Minister, you have the floor to answer your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u32	My dear colleague, I would like to say this that criticism of the speed of implementation of a plan for the development of the health system is completely acceptable and desirable. I am pleased that you recognise that this political project that we are implementing is a project that strengthens public care, covers gaps that existed over time, such as primary care, gives a priority, which is very critical, in sensitive areas, such as intensive treatment units, cardiometric intensive monitoring units, etc. The design for primary care is in constant development. Your question primarily concerns not the part of the local health units, which we already have seven in operation in Heraklion Prefecture, five in the main urban centre of the city and two in perimeter municipalities. We have 12 local units in total throughout Crete. Allow me to say that I believe that Crete is the Healthy Region that this institution of the family doctor and the new primary care model would say that it is moving with very satisfactory steps and I believe that there were, especially at the University of Crete and the Medical School, inspired people who have put their mark on this culture of primary care, such as Mr. Fioretos, such as Mr. Kafatos, people who had this philosophy of emphasis on prevention, health care and, of course, Mr. Lionis and Mr. Antonis Koitis. So, I think this model is gradually developing. Recently - I think you were here too - we have made a public accountability and a statement on the first year of operation of these new Heraklion structures. But there are other structures. There are health centres, there are regional medical establishments, there are the needs of new urban health centres, and there is this delay, for which I do not now want to find easy excuses. There is a malfunction and a difficulty of rapid consultation between co-legislative ministries too many times. However, we are at a stage when with the Ministry of Labour we have a strong political understanding and will move on quickly and quickly all the pending applications for concessions of buildings and we have done so in many areas of this country. IKA buildings have been granted and housed in TMY. Local health units are being set up with other administrative services, with unsettled spaces available from old structures of the IKA or other insurance funds. Our aim is to make progress and make the best use of it. With regard to the IKA, particularly in the Hersonissos, where we have an area, a town with large population growth and a large population of guests in the summer due to tourism, there we have managed to develop a local unit. We also have an old two-seat regional office. Surely it takes an urban type health centre, which will upgrade care in the area. What I fully agree with is that we need - but we need to understand that this is not a matter of very immediate efficiency - a comprehensive redesign of the whole public health package, particularly in primary care and, of course, in Heraklion, because people, transport have changed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Epidemiologically and medically, we have an issue with the recordings and data and how they are monitored. Slowly, the system is being organized. We also have through the information systems now of the Ministry of Health and Hospitals and through the BI system more information and a better picture. I think that there is a need for a comprehensive redesign and I think that this is where we can see the specific regional hospitals you mentioned, namely Matalus, Bayonia and Stavies.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u33	The rest in dentistry, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u34	I want to say this with very great openness. We did not have the opportunity in this first period of our government term at the same time to ensure the survival of the public health system, to ensure that all citizens have access to health care in an equal manner, to proceed with interventions in the resolution and moralisation of the system, to proceed with reform interventions, such as primary health care and medicine, and, at the same time, to make a radical redesign and an assessment of all the structures of the country and a reorganisation and modern planning of public structures. I think this is a matter of the next government term and, indeed, we believe that both the citizens of the country and the local communities, but also the people of the health system will assess this very important intervention which has been preceded and will enable us to complete this very important task of reorganising the ESS in our country. For the university hospital, I'll answer my second-guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I agree with you. We did not have the opportunity at the first moment and I believe that we, too, have lived together with the agony and danger of the public health system having collapsed in our hands, in you, as Minister and in the administrations of the health regions. So I agree with that that we did not have that possibility. The second is, as I said in my protology, that in the Health Area of Crete for several reasons we were a step further ahead of the other health regions, and that is, in my opinion, precisely because, in my opinion, of the partners who were next to me. You referred to my friend and a valuable partner, who unfortunately left early, Mr. Koutis, to Professor Lionis. These two doctors were in the Ministry's committee working on primary health care and, at the same time, they were partners in the healthcare region, which, beyond the ideas, discussed practical implementation in the Heraklion area. Another element that the Health Region of Crete helped to advance the design was precisely that we had the right scientist, Mrs. Creditola, who worked in the health region - mathematician, having worked on the integrated geographical systems - and helped us to process the health map data. A third element is that - I said it in my protology, I will say it again and I will always say it - in this flagrant effort to intervene on the left in the primary care of the urban fabric of our country, we had with us and local government, we had executives from the local councils. I will only refer to one, who was a valuable partner and a friend and has also left early, George Martatos from the Municipality of Malevizi, who wholeheartedly supported this effort to prepare the medicine. I remind you, Minister, that in our original planning it was for the Municipality of Maleviziu to join its five doctors in the first ten, fifteen doctors who were piloting the country. That was why we proceeded more quickly with the planning. This is what you said, Mr Minister, about Heraklion Prefecture and not only about the region of Crete, but let us stop at Heraklion Prefecture at the moment, there is, it is a design based on the health map and it is a design that has been discussed with all the relevant municipal councils since June, July 2015. Or, if you would like, before well - well - to discuss at the level of health-care managers - the planning for intervention in primary health care, you yourself as Deputy Minister of Health at that time with Mr Kurubli, who was then Minister of Health, attended a meeting in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs which we discussed the placement of the doctorates of the Municipality of Malevizis with the municipal council in Malevizi. It was discussed with the Municipality of Gortyna, the Municipality of Phaistos on the municipal councils. I would like to say that these proposals were discussed at the relevant municipal councils with the Municipality of Viannou, it is not about doctors, but it was about the distribution of the EAW, that was the problem there. It was discussed on the Hersonissos municipal council which we discussed and the distribution of medical services based on the needs of the population, based on the existing health structures and how to use them. So my question, Minister, is: Are the decisions to grant the use of the two buildings of the IKA, which are closed to the Ministry of Health, what happened? It wasn't May and we're talking about it in June. We have been talking since May 2015 and we are closing for four years. And should I say that Mrs Ahtsoglou or Mr. Katrugalos disagreed? Since he was Minister of Labour, George Katrugalos, we have been discussing this. Let me say I understand that the Minister disagrees. But can the ministers agree and not be done? Are there any managers down there who don't care? Are there any ministries' servants who do not accept it? Are there any deficiencies in the administrations? But we cannot continue with this delay. In the medical professions we're saying there might be a problem in finding doctors to go, but why are they not institutionalized by the Ministry, their institution to have medicine there? And, as I have said, in the establishment plan of the hospital, this unit does not exist, but it is not the room that has not entered the establishment plan. Someone's running this hospital, someone's head of hospital administration, and apparently the ministry is head of all this pyramid. But can't it be excluded when we cover all the needs of all the ICUs in the country?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u37	Thank you to Mr Igoumenidis, MP for the coalition. The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u38	My dear colleague, there are no loose ends. It's hard for sure there are. Delays certainly exist. What I think I cannot accept, at least personally, that there is deliberate oligopoly, deliberately undermining any planning. The design is something that is altered in the course of time depending on the actual possibilities, depending on the new data. The specific administration of the 7th Health Region is therefore responsible for updating and implementing the planning and implementation. I imagine you've been getting answers, you've discussed with them what the priorities are and what the hierarchies are. We all want the steps to be faster, we all want to meet the needs of the population more fully and especially in remote areas. The possibility is not always guaranteed for various reasons, because there is no response on the part of doctors, because there are difficulties in finding resources necessary for equipment, infrastructure upgrading and so on. The issue of building concessions will very soon come to an end to you being absolutely certain. Now from concession to the possibility of moving quickly into modern structures you realize that there will always be a very important year. These procedures are very difficult and especially in a country that has serious problems in its public administration. I would like to say another thing because you have also referred to the training of qualified doctors. There are two first Academic Primary Care Units in the country. One will be in Heraklion precisely because there is this know-how and experience on the part of the academic community and the specific people of the medical school. It will be in a structure which, until now, operated as a municipal office and which will also be an original partnership between the ESS, university and local government. It will therefore be an academic unit which, apart from health services such as all local units, will also provide continuing training and training on new fields and on new approaches to primary care, doctors and other health professionals. This is a very important innovation that has this reform that we have done. The second will be in Thessaloniki and we will gradually develop into all the major urban centres, which have medical schools, corresponding structures and will fill this gap. Now I'm going to refer to the Cardiopathic Intensive Monitoring Unit in PAGNE. First of all, I have to say that today since the operation of the hospital and this unit, we have a high level of services provided to the patients in our region. This is something that is recognized from everywhere. We have very good system response indicators. We have excellent colleagues with experience in cardiology, we have well-trained staff, we have very good safety and quality standards in care. This is very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u39	I recognize it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u40	I know, because I know you've worked there for so many years and you've been committed to this case. So we are going for the best, and we are trying to upgrade and improve and respond with greater credibility to the needs of the citizens. The picture that comes from the hospital administration is that in the second building on the fourth floor that this cardiological unit operates and at the same time the special calibration unit and the pacemaker implantation unit and the electrophysiology laboratory and the heart surgery unit will make an effort, precisely because we understand that more growth is needed, to add two extra beds. It's a process after all. The implementation of the project has gone ahead, the funding has been found. I think it's immediately deliverable. What is needed, of course, then, is by exploiting the institution of nursing ancillary staff to strengthen the department with the necessary number of nurses, so that these two beds will be operational quickly. And there is also in the design and yet a daily care unit is currently in the study for the planned cases of the haematological laboratory. Therefore, a part of the care volume provided by the current intensive heart disease monitoring unit can be covered by this One Day Clinic for the cases of haematologicals. I think that this also comes as an alternative to helping the overall upgraded operation of this very important clinical and very important sections that I think are really responding to the acute heart attack with very great completeness. We have a very large proportion of urgent potency in the acute infarction and I think that these incidents in our region are really high.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The answer to Mr Igoumenides' question has been completed. We're moving on to the last question...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, although it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, I would like to reply to the Minister, because I understand that he has not been properly informed by the administration of the hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u43	You have the floor, Mr. Igoumenides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u44	I know this room with the two extra beds, Minister. It's been discussed since I worked at PANGNE's Cardiological Clinic. Apart from that, there's what I told you, a unit with seven beds and unit slots. They're ID beds. If we visit it right now - if you want next weekend coming down to Crete - you will also see the monitors of the sick hanged in the area. There are seven beds. It is an area that today is used as a warehouse for the material used by the various laboratories you said. It's different from the two beds. And the space's ready.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u45	So it's a chance to take care of it. We move to the fifth under number 390/26-2-2019 a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Jasona Foila, to the Minister of Health, on "Without end" the deadlock with the family doctor." Mr. Fotella, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are facing another huge failure of government policy in relation to public health. And I stress 'public health', because while we both agree on the need to upgrade public health, our difference lies in the definition of public health. In other words, while for you public health it is only the health provided by the State, for us public health can also be the health provided by a private person. What makes health public for us is not who provides it, as long as it is taken and who is charged with it, which is who pays it, that is. If a provision of health is made by a private person to all Greek citizens and for this he pays the state, he will not be a public health provider. The reasons for this failure were explained by a disarmamentist I would say, frankly just now, in response to the previous colleague, Mr Igoumenides. With one word - I say again - disarming honesty you said that, Mr Igoumenides, there is a need to draw up a map of public health needs and that is what you intend to do in your next term. Understand, Minister, what did you say? In other words, you said that you started a public health reform without having drawn up a map of needs. In other words, without knowing what we have and what we need, we started to do the reform. To say this in medical terms, - I'm not a doctor, but you are - that means that the patient was surgeryd and then we'll also be diagnosing the disease. That's what you just said! This failure, Minister, concerns the crucial area of primary care for citizens, where they are looking for their first aid, either for prevention or for treatment, and even for prescribing their necessary medicines. Law 4486/2017 promised two hundred and thirty-nine local health units and almost a thousand two hundred doctors who would send them, in proportion to one to two thousand two hundred fifty patients. This has not been achieved by half. Why, you may say you've opened a hundred thirteenth TOMY, but most are subordinated. And as if that were not enough, your private doctors turned your back, for only six hundred twenty - two thousand eight hundred thirty for anticipating your program accepted to happen and make the family doctor. What was the result? The result was in this failure to promote the institution of the family doctor, arbitrarily baptize doctors as family doctors from health centers, regional doctors, former IKA units, causing their reasonable reactions. And where did this failure lead? Patients seeking an appointment for examination to actually engage in a degrading safari to find a doctor. Even to prescribe their necessary medicines. According to complaints, they can wait up to ten days to find an appointment to write their medications. In any case, citizens at the end of the day are unable to serve. What are they doing? They are resorting to hospitals, with what this implies, except those who still have the ability to put their hands in the pocket and pay for private health, but they are also constantly falling. European funds were channelled with incorrect planning, the creation of state infrastructures, the majority of the undersettled as I said, and with a problematic proportion. Because today is a doctor in twelve thousand patients, instead of one to two thousand two hundred fifty, as you voted on. This, apart from the patient's health consistency, will also result in the non-functionality and eligibility of this project, because it will probably lead to the programme being brought out of European funding in a few months' time when you will obviously not be in power. That is why you are not particularly concerned about this and you are not interested in it or perhaps it is your concern and it is your interests. And not to say anymore - to finish - that the codes you have used to carry out the reform are irrelevant to that of the Ministry of Health. I'll explain it in my denture. So tell me: Do you realize, even if you cannot say so, that the failure of this programme is a given one? Do you plan to change something that will bring and ensure dignity to the weak citizen so that he does not continue to suffer in his search for a family doctor, and, if so, what, Minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Firela. The Minister has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u48	Dear colleague, stand up as much as you like, but do not sketch. You won't twist what I'm saying. I said that what is needed is a redesign of the public structures, especially the country's primary care, and a comprehensive reorganisation of the planning of hospitals, health centers, regional hospitals. That's what I said. Not that we don't have a needs map. The reform of primary care and the plan that we have submitted to the Commission and which has been financed precisely has been based on a record of a phenomenon of health poverty that has occurred in your days. To finish this story. There was no institution of the family doctor in Greece by the establishment of the ESS. Public structures were disorganized in the urban centers in 2014 with the intervention of Georgiadis, who were massively expelled by three thousand specialist doctors. Such a leak never existed in the public health system. In a landscape, then, broken down, with the world being poor and financially burdened, a reformist intervention is coming particularly innovative, which is funded by the European Union. And of course, I said it before, but you didn't hear, we invented a way to fund this change. Because in the NRP you planned, Mr Colleague, there was neither a thematic axis nor a sectoral programme concerning the health sector. That is why, under Axis 9 to tackle poverty, by analysing what I am telling you so much time about health poverty that has been in our country, we have managed to integrate this very important funding. In this way, we have been able to add public structures to the health system. This has been happening since the 1990s. The last health centres in Greece were built in the late 1990s. And within a year we have a hundred twenty structures in operation, 50% of the original design. This is a huge administrative, management, operational and organizational sport! And they're in crisis, under restrictions, under conditions of austerity. We have a thousand more workers in public primary health care, and we have three hundred more doctors, who slowly start and inject a new philosophy into health and culture and health professionals as well as citizens. It is a philosophy that does not say that primary care is only extra-host care and prescribing, but it is something much more comprehensive and much wider, which is related to prevention, health treatment, vaccination, pre-symptomatic controls, systematic monitoring, references through a reliable health management system. This is a huge change of conscience, it is a new model, which, of course, has difficulties in implementing it. If the criticism is that we are stalling, it is absolutely acceptable. But decide what you're saying. You cannot tell us that we are making unnecessarily state-runners - Mr Economou has said Soviet-type or pharaonic-style - structures. They are heard and laughed by any citizen who has visited one of these structures and has accepted their services. And at the same time you ask why we don't move forward and we only have a hundred thirteen - I told you that it's a hundred twenty - out of two hundred thirty-nine. Either they are useless and they do not need and you will close them - and this has presided over Mr Economou's positions - or they are good and must be supported and strengthened. Mr Mitsotakis, however, said in his presentation of the New Democracy programme: 'The local units must therefore be strengthened next to the family doctor'. Decide what your line is. Because society sees reciprocity, sees good services, positively assessed by the citizen his contact with the health system, understands that a new relationship is being created, that health professionals spend time, record the history, complete the Personal Electronic Health File, inform, guide, for the first time implement the essence of primary health care and not just extra-medical care, as you believe. That is why these structures will be viable. In any case, it is ensured that Community funds are migrated through the national part of the Public Investment Programme. For the first time I hear about the program here today. If you invest in this, it will prove another catastrophe scenario, which will smackly swallow, such as not getting out of the memorandum, such as not getting out of the market, such as cutting people's pensions, such as all the disaster scenarios in which the New Democracy is engaged and trying to create a climate of insecurity in society.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u49	Thanks to the Minister for his prototype. Now we have heard Mr. Jason Lightla in his denology for three minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I do not know exactly what you mean by saying that pensions will be cut. Didn't the world's pensions have been cut on your day, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u51	You said it was going to be cut!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u52	And they were cut, Minister. We said they'd be cut and cut!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u53	For a year and a half...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u54	We should leave Mr. Firela, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u55	You're unreliable. You're ruined.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u56	Minister, we should leave Mr. Fotilla. You'll answer later, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u57	Don't lose your temper.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u58	Go on, Mr. Lightla.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u59	The pensions have been cut several times over your day, only to remind you of who in this House has finally cut off the CSCE, who in this House has voted to reduce duty. I think, no matter how much we want to make fun of the world, it's no longer possible. You can make fun of him with what you're going to do. You can't make fun of him in relation to what you did. You've done this and it's over. As much as you're trying, Minister, to make the situation look good, the statistics disprove you. The true, daily contact of citizens with the health system is one: For a blood test, for a simple flu, they are forced to resort to the hospital, waiting for several hours in the emergency and driving hospital staff to impoverishment. That's their choice. Otherwise, whoever can, goes to a private doctor, unsummary, and pays out of his pocket. As for their medicines - we also expect the next increase in line with the last amendment you have voted on - more and more poorer people in our country are forced or bought their medicines from their pockets or not to take them, because they can't even get a doctor to write them down. This, Minister, is the truth, no matter how promises you make today, and as much as you make appointments as other 'Bavroyalus', in a few months' time, when they take place - the elections. As much as you say otherwise, the funding you had and found from New Democracy since 2014 - and we can discuss it in another timeline - you did not channel it to improve the existing primary health system. Instead of hiring the necessary medical and paramedical staff to the urban health centers and making use of EOPY doctors involved, Community resources were channelled to create new state structures - I repeat - which, of course, do not work. You're saying half of it works. I'm telling you that half of them don't even work. But you didn't answer us. When do you think they'll all work? When will this first-time health system be completed? When will this story be over? When will we have thirty-nine TOMY, and why will we have them? What will you change so that the doctors will no longer turn their back on this supposed reform and accept it and accept it? We expected to hear more than that, not the same again. However, in any case, if you need it, we have the map of needs ready. It is the first thing we started doing two years ago in the New Democracy in the health sector and it is almost ready. And we can give you our advice to see again the country's health needs, to see where we need to build structures and not where we need to build electoral centres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", sixteen students and students and three trainers from the Elementary School of Palatika Vergina. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform students and teachers that they are attending a parliamentary control meeting. Today, with the questions we're hearing, the Ministry of Health is being controlled. The Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos, is here. The Members of all the parties are asking questions below, and there is a dialogue with a process and various answers are given. We are at the end of the process, where the Minister closes with his denunciation, and the debate on the topical and urgent questions is closed. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u61	I will try to be as clear and mild as possible in reactions and positions. My dear colleague, I think I explained it. There was a landscape and overall in the health system, and in particular in primary care completely disorganised, after a five-year intake freeze and cumulatively with cuts of over 40% in the operational costs of the ERC. This political plan of shrinking public care stopped in 2015. Since then, there has been no cutback. And we are gradually strengthening public spending. We got them at 4.6% of GDP and reached 5.2% of GDP. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. There was a critical injection of human resources into the health system and with permanent and subsidiary staff, so we prevented the collapse of public care. Especially for primary care have we managed to find European resources to promote a new, innovative system that never existed in the country. Primary care had only evolved into non-homogeneous services and not to the essence of primary care - as I said before -, which is prevention, health care, intervention in the community, advice on the needs not only of patients with chronic diseases but also of people who can potentially get sick and should be able to intervene dissuasively. There was not until then, until now, this innovative system, with the new decentralised structures, with the health team, with the culture of the health group. Primary care was only a matter of doctors. We say it's not just the doctors' business. It is a cross-sectoral and interdisciplinary case and has a role as a nurse, a community nurse, a health guest, a midwife, a social worker, because disease is a multifactor. With the extroversion of structures, with school intervention, do you know how many health care activities have been performed by executives, by health professionals of one hundred and twenty local units? Do you know how many information interventions have been made in the community? Do you know how many partnerships have been made with patients' associations, with social services of the municipalities and central state, with predictive structures? It is another philosophy that for the first time takes place in the country, you like it you don't like, and has added...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u62	When will they be completed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u63	So the criticism is that we're delaying. If the criticism is that the steps we take are not satisfactory for you, we can discuss it as much as you like. I have already accepted that there are objective difficulties both to find available building infrastructures and to find, above all, doctors of these specialties, that is, general doctors, pathologists and pediatricians. Why, what should we do? The health system for decades has not been oriented towards developing this field, the field of primary care and family doctors. It was geared to producing specialist doctors, doctors of overqualified expertise...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u64	When will it be over?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u65	It will be completed, dear colleague, over time, gradually and constantly improving steps, as has been done in all the countries of the world, the developed countries of Europe. With regard to these reforms, anyone who believes that you turn a button and automatically transforms the country, all needs are met by a family doctor of all citizens, that structures are being developed everywhere, even in the most remote and inappropriate places, just has no idea how health systems work. That is the essence, in my view, of history. Unfortunately, what you are actually defending is a bankrupt model, is a non-system. We had this misery - let me say - of the contracts for the two hundred visits, which in a strange and magical way ended in the first days of the month. Is that what you're defending? This mockery over the insurance funds and over the world, that didn't serve and burden the world financially? We have therefore said a new system of contracts openly, with a commitment of time for the whole month and, in our view, with the economic gains that can be made at this time. We are not happy with the wage status of health doctors. We also think that their work is of high responsibility and of high credibility and should be better paid. Our objective is slowly, while the budgetary margin in the country is increasing, to improve this. And that's probably catalytic to reverse the Brain Drain. However, we are creating employment opportunities in the country and for the first time thousands of doctors and other staff have been promoted in these years and yet another simple package is being planned for the next period. We have announced it a while ago with Mrs Xinogiannakopoulou: Two and a half thousand doctors and other staff a year, starting in 2019. Until Easter or shortly after Easter - today we had a ministerial meeting at the Ministry - we will be proclaiming the next package of the thousands of qualified doctors in the ESS and will follow the thousands of five hundred other staff. The health system is developing. There is an investment from the state. There is caring for public care and, above all, there is guaranteed citizens' access, which had been lost in the first memorandum years. Now, don't tell us here and don't present us with a picture of disaster and worsening malfunctions. There are open wounds to the health system, obviously, from the crisis and the austerity measures, but these wounds are slowly healing, with difficulty, with problems, thanks to the staff's honesty, thanks to the dignity of health professionals. People know that and they understand it. Let me say: what exactly does what you say in your programme 'free choice of family doctors from the public and private sectors'? On which criteria will someone be addressed to the public and private sectors?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u66	I'll be able to answer, why does he ask questions?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u67	No, I ask rhetoric questions and you will answer them in your speech in the next opportunity to be given. What does that mean? In fact, what you are defending is the previous model, the model of public books. This is what you are defending, a model in which the public has had a low presence, public structures in the field of primary care. We are therefore saying that this new model, the new philosophy can be implemented mainly through public structures and, of course, with the subsidiary of the private sector synergy, where needs cannot be met, where there is a real inability to attract citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u68	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u69	Your Prime Minister will fight you! Don't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u70	That is the essence of the matter. Let me say - and I close with this - that the programme you presented is - I would say with a phrase - the secret charm of liberalism. This is your schedule. You say it directly. We do not need a public health system, we need limit values in terms of staffing and equipment public structures. Mr Mitsotakis said so yesterday: 'Why buy magnetic tomographers in public hospitals when we have so many magnetic tomographers in the private sector?' So all philosophy is buying services from the state budget, I will say private sector in our country and especially business, organised. That is your philosophy and that means a deterioration in public care and a burden on the citizen. Let go of the tears for the bad public health and for the suffering of the citizens. The model that you are now trying to openly formulate is a model that leads to the worst phase of the memorial depreciation of public health in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u73	Of course. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u74	First of all, let me say that both cannot happen, Minister. We either destroyed the previous model and stopped it, and so we created problems in public health or we want it, and we will bring that back again. We couldn't have destroyed it yesterday, but we might want to bring it back tomorrow. One of the two happens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u75	It's bankrupt. That's what I said. You're defending a bankrupt model.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u76	We don't defend it, since you said before that we stopped it and interrupted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u77	You defend it while it went bankrupt...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u78	Please, please, let Mr. Fotillas finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u79	Finally, because you said what we mean 'free choice'. We mean that every Greek citizen can choose his doctor, the doctor he trusts, the doctor he learned, the doctor he went to today. And, in order to achieve this, we need to motivate all these doctors to get into the system so that the Greek citizen can find him and choose him. You didn't tell us when or when it would be over, because you obviously didn't know your system and you didn't tell us why the doctors would suddenly respond to this system that so far has turned its back, since you didn't tell us anything that you would change and make their choice different. So, uh, some squirrels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u80	Good. Thank you. That concludes the debate on topical and urgent questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 23 January 2019, Thursday 24 January 2019, Monday 28 January 2019 and Tuesday 29 January 2019 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u81	The minutes of Wednesday 23 January 2019, Thursday 24 January 2019, Monday 28 January 2019 and Tuesday 29 January 2019 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-03-18-S1-commons.u82	With the consent of the House at 19.55 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 19 March 2019 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
