ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the special agenda, I would like to inform you that our new colleagues, Mrs Rapt, Mr Nyfoudis and Mr Panagiotopoulos will also be participating in today's sitting. Mrs. Liberaki was a Member from before. I would also like to make a statement to this House. By letters to the President of Parliament on 2 May 2019 Mr Stavros Theodorakis and on 7 May 2019 the MPs Mr. Stavros Theodorakis, Spyridon Lykoudis, Antigone Lyberakis, George Mavrotas and Nikolaos Nyfoudis said they would participate in the party's parliamentary group "The Potami". The President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, with his letter of 7 May 2019 to the party leader "The Potami" Stavros Theodorakis, after the opinion of the Scientific Council of the Parliament, informed him that the relevant institution of the Parliament will take all the necessary steps to reconstruct the party's parliamentary group "The Potami", pursuant to Rule 16(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Part I Parliament. In view of the above, in today's sitting on the proposal by the Prime Minister to give a vote of confidence to the Government, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure, the Party 'Potami' will participate as a parliamentary group. Today, as far as we know, Mr Theodorakis is concerned, neither Mr Koutsoubas, the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece nor Mr Leventis, President of the Group of the European People's Party, will speak first. The rest of the Chiefs will first speak and then we will give the floor to Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and Mrs Aleka Papapeiga to enter the first circle of speech. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Discussion and vote on the proposal by the Prime Minister to give a vote of confidence to the Government, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 141 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The debate, in accordance with Rule 141 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, will take place on analogous basis in accordance with Rule 96 and 97 of the Rules of Procedure, will be closed at three sittings and will be closed on Friday 10 May 2019 at the latest by 12 noon by roll-call vote on the proposal. This decision shall be taken by an absolute majority of the Members present, but may not be less than 2/5 of the total number of Members. In parliamentary practice today's sitting will begin on the request of the Prime Minister and will follow the speeches of the political leaders if they wish - I mentioned beforehand about your information - with the time laid down in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure. The Prime Minister and the political leaders will give a second answer at the last meeting in reverse order of the parliamentary power of the parties. Then, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents on 6 May 2019, I propose that we enter the speeches of the speakers in six cycles in proportion to the party's parliamentary power, with a predicted speaking time of up to seven minutes for each speaker and speaker without the right to denial. Each speaker circle is composed of fourteen Members in total. The seven most parliamentary groups have already submitted statements of speakers - in accordance with Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure - and a single list has been drawn up with alterations in proportion to their parliamentary power. Changes to the list of speakers will be allowed only by a document of the Secretary of their Parliamentary Group. At the end of each circle of speakers an independent MP shall be added. The MPs of the Association will alternate with the MPs of the opposition, and in each cycle will participate five MPs from the SYRIZA, three from the New Democracy, one from the Democratic Reconciliation, one from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, a MP from the Communist Party of Greece, a member of the River, a Member of the Centro Association and an independent MP. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups is set out in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure. In particular, the time taken by the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras and the Chief of Officerial Representation and President of the New Democracy Mr Mitsotakis is up to 20 minutes, of the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups is up to 15 minutes. The Ministers may speak for up to 15 minutes of the hour, the Deputy Ministers for Foreign Affairs for 12 minutes and the Deputy Ministers for Foreign Affairs for up to eight minutes without the right to secondary education. Parliamentary Representatives may speak for up to 12 minutes without the right to secondary education. Today's debate is to end the twelfth night. The sitting will start tomorrow at 10 a.m. Does the House accept the proposal of the Conference of Presidents, as I have made it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u3	Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, it is not a question of the procedure but of the subject that we are discussing today. As you have already read on the agenda which has been distributed, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a proposal by the Prime Minister for confidence in the government, in accordance with Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure of this House and Rule 84 of the Constitution. But, Mr President, this has happened, and I am referring to the background, to how things are being introduced today, in a way that serves the government rather than the parliamentary order. On Monday, the President of the New Democracy and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group tabled a motion of censure against the Deputy Minister of Health pursuant to Rule 142 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The proposal was then developed by the President of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The present Vice-President of the Government, Mr Drasakis, replied to the Chief of Staff and, in his reply, turned - in his opinion - the proposal to distrust the Members of the New Democracy under Rule 142 in a proposal of confidence to the Government under Rule 141. First, the Vice-President of the Government had no authority to do so. Rule 141 of the Rules of Procedure reserves this right to oral or oral documents only to the Prime Minister. After all, the Prime Minister had submitted such a statement to the previous proposal submitted to the House. But that's not the big one. The main point, Mr President, is that it is not what has happened. The motion of censure shall be an instrument of parliamentary control of opposition, in accordance with Article 142, and shall provide for a different majority from that provided for in Article 141. It's two different things. And in order to prevent any response, I say this: I do not remember who, before 2005, referred to the government and Prime Minister Costas Karamanlis. It's not true. I was in the room then. At that time George Papandreou had risen, but he had not submitted a written motion of distrust. On the contrary, Kostas Karamanlis then submitted a proposal of confidence in the government. In this case, a written motion of censure under Rule 142, which must be put forward and explained. Why is the government doing this? The government does so, Mr President, because the motion of censure to be accepted requires a hundred and fifty Members of Parliament, and that would therefore give the opportunity to a large number of Members of the parliamentary majority - who are facing, and have already said so, in complete defiance of the attitude of the Deputy Minister for Health - to differentiate themselves, without this having the effect of falling the government or even the distrust of the Minister in question, so that it can lead to political developments. It is therefore the mechanism chosen as a replacement, it is contrary to Parliament's Rules of Procedure, it is contrary to the Constitution of the country, it raises the question of the Rules of Procedure and I ask you to change the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u5	At two meetings, Mr. Parliamentary Representatives of Officerial Representation, this issue has not been raised. In this regard, in the debate that took place on the ground, when the Chief of Officerial Representation took into account his intention to present the motion of censure, the Prime Minister came in and said directly that he would request the conversion of this debate into a debate to give a vote of confidence in the government. In particular - because it can be said that this first meeting was a meeting in the context of the rhetoric and step-by-step controversy - at Monday's session this issue ended with all types - take note, please, Mr Teddy! - by President-in-Office of the Council, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Kaklamanis, and the relevant documents in Parliament's services. It started with the speech by Mr Mitsotakis, then the Deputy Prime Minister spoke on behalf of the Government, there was an answer, he raised the matter, and the President-in-Office ended the sitting, saying exactly that we will go on Wednesday - as I had said three hours ago at the Conference of Presidents - in this procedure. So at these two meetings, and particularly on Monday - I repeat that the first one was on the political substance, but the second one also had the procedural, regulatory and constitutional type, in which you have rightly referred - this issue has been raised on the substance, it has ended, in writing, and in the Minutes, there has been no objection on this issue and we will therefore proceed to the present procedure. I very much ask Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for Parliament's confidence in a plan for the recovery of the Greek economy and also for the support of the Greek society which we presented in detail yesterday afternoon. I am calling today for Parliament's confidence, but also for the Greek people's confidence in the European elections in May 26th on a plan for raising, recovering and strengthening the many people, which is now about tomorrow and I would say in total over the next four years. It concerns the maintenance and strengthening of the economic development path in the years to come, despite the fact that there is a retreat in Europe. It concerns, if you like, the acceleration of our country's return course to normality, stability, but also the return of many, all those who have put back on the difficult times of the crisis, to prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not come here today with my main aim of opposing the hidden Mr. Mitsotakis, because I have asked him repeatedly during... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Is that how we go, ladies? I'll say a lot about Mr. Mitsotakis today, but you'll let me talk. You will not interrupt my speech, as will I listen carefully to Mr Mitsotakis. I understand your irritation, but be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u7	Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u8	Be quiet. You'll hear them today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u9	Please! It's not an amphitheater here. This is the Chamber of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u10	I didn't come here today to counter the hidden Mr. Mitsotakis. I have asked him on several occasions to have a debate on all the matter together and confronted all the major problems relating to the Greek society, the Greek economy, Europe, national issues, the country's progress in the next few months, and also the critical European elections. And most importantly, I didn't come here to stand against him inconvenience, distractions, communal tricks, nor to compete with him in yellowism, black propaganda. Besides, he's unbeatable. That's what man can do, that's what he does. I came here today before the Greek Parliament, before the National Representation and the Greek and Greek Members of Parliament, to stand against Mr Mitsotakis' propaganda, but with Mr Mitsotakis' political plan, what he diligently tries to hide behind communication fireworks and lymphs. It's the same plan, the one that threw the country on the rocks in 2010. It is the same plan, with what led to social looting and bankruptcy between 2010 and 2014. It is the same plan, which has resulted in unprecedented economic bleeding, social disintegration, the desperation of millions of people, the humiliation of an entire people. It is the same project, which has wiped out one third of the economy, the same project that has thrown the pensioners' population, which has dissolved labour relations, which has imposed the employment status of the jungle, which has devastated unemployment at unprecedented rates for a European country. This plan, and this programme, wants the New Democracy party and Mr Mitsotakis to be re-established if the Greek people can trust him. This is the time of a foretold disaster. And I want this plan today to be opposed to their political programme and not to the fireworks. And I want to say, since we could not have, because it does not want to make this programme and this plan - a controversy of all kinds. To stand up here in the House on positions, on proposals, on a political plan, on a plan for the economy, on a plan for society. Our political plans to compare our intentions and works before the Greek people, to speak with open cards about what course we are holding for Greece, which is currently in a critical region of the Southeast Mediterranean and the Balkans, where in recent years the prestige, dynamism, the leading role of the country, and to compare our plans, our positions, our projects and our crucial questions to the Greek people have been recovered. And the crucial question I would like to ask the Greek people and Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy and all my political opponents is whether with our political plan, with our political positions, we will ensure the country's smooth course towards normality, the recovery of the Greek economy, the reduction of burdens for many. Because, indeed, today, despite the fact that we have managed to reduce unemployment by ten points and have become close to the four hundred thousand new jobs, while a million jobs have been lost in the period 2010-2014, there are thousands of our fellow citizens who have not yet experienced, have not felt the recovery of the economy and the benefits of exiting the memoranda. So the question is what? We will continue this positive path forward, or will we lead the country back to neoliberal policies of the International Monetary Fund, or will our insurance system be re-adventured, bringing Pinochet-type systems - you said so, did we Pinochet-type - or will we bring the country back into wage cuts and pensions in a broken social state, in the name of a supposed development that will be nothing but the enrichment of the many people at the expense of the few, why have we seen this in previous years? Fair growth is the growth that can give dividends for many, because we also had the years of the crisis, the years of the Olympic Games, but this development did not become a dividend for the many, but it became a reserve for the few. The crucial question, therefore, is whether we will continue our path to a path of social justice, a path of fair growth and a strategy that promotes the interests of the many, or we will return back. Ladies and gentlemen, it has a special symbolism that I am calling today for the vote of confidence by the Members of the National Representation in a plan of support, recovery and relief for many, the same day that nine years ago, on 8 May 2010, in this Chamber in the Greek Parliament there was no government that called for a vote of confidence in such a plan, but the country's first loan contract with our creditors was voted. That was nine years ago. So today, nine years ago, we entered this era of Greek tragedy, in this era that will be written in black letters in modern Greek history. And, of course, we did not enter this tragedy because SYRIZA destroyed the economy. We didn't get into this tragedy because SYRIZA had amateur ministers who didn't know how to do their jobs. We entered this tragedy, because you, your resignation, had left the country unarmed, unprotected in the client's state and corruption, a country that held the Olympic Games spending billions, but was unable to build a social state of dignity for many. It was unable to implement a policy of support for poverty. It was unable to implement a policy of support for the weak. It was a country that wasted millions and billions, but not for the many. We were not us, but you left a deficit of 15% of GDP and later handed over the country to the International Monetary Fund and to the cold technocrats, who know that wherever they are found, at all the lengths and backs of the planet, they have a policy to mutilate society to curb the numbers. But that's not how the numbers do. It was not us, but you who implemented the most brutal anti-social austerity policy ever implemented in a European Union country in 2014. We were not the ones who ruled, but you, when the country lost 1/4 of national wealth, 25% of GDP. This has never happened before in a country that is in peacetime, when one and a half million of our fellow citizens have been in the range of unemployment, when wages have fallen by 40% and pensions have fallen further, when the social state is down. You were the ones who caused this incalculable crisis and you did not fail to give during this crisis a single euro to our poor and weak fellow citizens. You left them alone in their fate. It was not us, but you who plunged the majority of the Greeks into a sense of inconsistency with your political behaviour, because it was not just the fact that you imposed these inhuman policies, but at the same time that you imposed these inhuman policies, you did not have the courage to stand by the weak, next to the Greek people and even ask, by giving him the crucial dilemmas, to support these plans. We, in 2015, ladies and gentlemen, received a country and a society looted, a bankrupt, a state broken down, a society in despair and fragmented, with empty funds - not a single euro - and deficits. Despite the high targets you signed for 4% and 4.5% for surpluses, you were unable to catch anything. Nevertheless, despite all the great difficulties, we have always lifted with the support and assistance of the Greek people, statured in Europe. We fought to bring back the lost dignity of the Greek people, who did not demand anything more, demanded justice. He didn't demand favors, he didn't demand gifts, he demanded respect. We were, of course, forced in July 2015 to take a step back, but later, in order to have the opportunity to take many steps forward, and we asked for the approval of the Greek people. You forget that all the time. We asked for the approval of the Greek people immediately after this agreement, in September 2015, and again we got the approval of the Greek people. If we have been here all these years, it is not because we were supported by the media, it is not because we were supported by interests, but because we have taken the approval of the Greek people again. We tightened the teeth from September 2015 and clawed public finances. We shared the burdens as fairly as possible. But, even within the suffocating conditions, we prioritised our priorities, because we have given priority to dealing with the consequences of the humanitarian crisis in the country in 2015 and with a number of programmes, despite the difficult budgetary conditions, with the strengthening of the welfare budget, which we found in the 780 million and today exceeds 3 billion, with the reconstruction of the social state, with the universal access of all our Greek citizens and our insecure fellow citizens, our two and a half million insecure citizens to public health and the sacred right to medical care. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] With our efforts to put forward the weak, we were the ones who, despite the unfavourable budgetary conditions and the financial suffocation regime, which the previous government had designed, since the first day, have done everything to support public education. Remember what happened until 2015, the gaps, the photocopies in schools, the shortages in staff. We managed to regain normality, elementary for their students and parents. We, too, have been the ones who have returned the over-performance of the economy to our fellow citizens for three years in a row. Because this money belongs to them, it's their sacrifices, it's their labor and they have to be rewarded. We were the ones who fought in the difficult circumstances to achieve our main goal: to get Greece out of the memorials, on the one hand, and, on the other, to strive for society to stay upright and on the other, by giving every day battles to regain the country's lost credibility in Europe and in the international precinct. We were the ones who have succeeded in surpassing the budget targets every year, but at the same time, at the same time, shielding our economy in the long term through structural reforms, which you have never dared to do, but also with a solution for the big, the crucial issue of public debt, by creating a net runway of 15 years, by creating a pillow of liquidity, all that has given us today the opportunity to return on the best terms than ever in international markets. We have all achieved this, ladies and gentlemen, with a plan, seriously, with a lot of trouble and difficult and inconvenience. Mostly, however, we achieved what we requested the mandate of the Greek people in September 2015. We have succeeded - and we are proud of this, as well as millions of Greeks who today can hope - finally get the country out of the Memorandum Adventure, which was driven exactly nine years ago, as today, May 8, 2010, in this House. And today we are here in a recovery, relief and development plan for the Greek economy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It has already started a new course, a new course for restoring injustices, a new course for organising the next day for our country. For us, the restoration of injustices is an important priority. That is why in September in the Thessaloniki International Exhibition we announced a series of measures that created the outline of a new economic policy after eight years of austerity. Today we are in a position to deepen this new economic policy. Since September, this House has only voted for positive measures to alleviate social justice and social justice. The reintroduction of the basic principles of collective bargaining, the increase in the minimum wage, the abolition of the minimum wage, which I pledged to and announced at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, have all been implemented one by one, and today: Reductions in taxation, reductions in social security contributions, reductions in staff recruitment in special education, the housing allowance of two hundred and thousands of households, the non-reduction of pensions, which you had specified... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...the favourable arrangements for the debts of the citizens in insurance funds and the tax office that is currently and yesterday are being discussed in the committees of the House, and I imagine that you will vote for them as well as the rest you have had to vote on them. And not forget, of course, the framework for protecting the first residence. All this, ladies and gentlemen, has been legislated and implemented one by one. And of course, like everything that we have announced, legislated and implemented, we will do so with what was announced yesterday. What we announced on an overall plan that has a beginning, medium and end, which has a very strong economic logic, a plan that strengthens the development of the Greek economy, but above all gives a prospect of breathing for many. We announced yesterday the decrease of VAT in the focus from 24% to 13%... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...the transfer of all foods to the 13% rate, the reduction of VAT on energy, electricity and natural gas from the 13% rate to the 6% excess. It is a measure for every household, but it is also for businesses. And of course, we have also announced something that you and your Chief called populism and impracticable, the thirteenth pension for pensioners, for those who suffered first in the years of the crisis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Next year, we have a plan and we're on our way. We are calling for the abolition for the many and the radical reduction in almost all of the solidarity levy - and this is a hard memorandum measure - of increasing the depreciation rate for businesses, of a possible pro-development measure, to 150%, of the premium for insurance companies and young people up to twenty-nine years, to tackle the biggest social problem at the moment, which is the unemployment of young people, the further reduction of the VAT rate, the middle rate from 13% to 11%, the reduction of the cooperative tax to 10%, the reduction of 10% in the taxable income of cooperative farmers, to strengthen production and the cooperative model of the economy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, we have also announced measures concerning our islanders, the inhabitants of mountain regions, such as reductions for the smaller islands and for HISFIA and taxation, as well as our critics. And that's not just a social one, it's a national measure, it's a national obligation. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have also announced measures for our inhabitants in mountain villages, mountainous areas, with reductions in heating costs, as well as exemptions in interest on first home housing loans for borrowers. We have all announced that, ladies and gentlemen. In the first phase you will also drink this glass one - one. That torture will be drinkin'. You're not getting away with this! You'll be here next week. One by one. Say 'yes' to everything. Unless you want to say 'no'. It'll be interesting to see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u11	Who? Are we going to vote for ours?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u12	Is that yours? Your measures were the pillaging measures of the Greek people, they were the reductions in pensions... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...it was the wage cuts, it was the imposition of the HICP, it was the imposition of the solidarity levy, it was the ravages. In these measures you lifted both hands and said: "Yes to everything" and took off your executives, such as your Vice President to say: "I will not take glory from the Troika. I have the glory. I believe these measures. I impose these measures. I want social dismantling in public health." You said that. These are your own measures, your own measures! [[Sustained applause from SYRIZA Wing]] We're gonna have a great time next week!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u13	Please, no worries! Quiet, Mrs. Vulture. No worries, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u14	But I would like to ask you why you have confused me from last night until this afternoon when I watch your media and your awkward reactions. Are they really your measures, or are they benefits, tricks and gifts? Are these benefits tricks and gifts? No, ladies and gentlemen, they're not benefits, they're not tricks, they're not gifts. It's justice. It is the return of those who have been stolen from the legacy of the Greek people over the past few years. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's the least we can do for the many. And it is the beginning of a new fair development path for the country, but it is also the practice of respect for the sacrifices of a people who suffered. That is why these measures are not like some other tricks you used to do in the years of well-being before the elections, such as those hired by contract election, or by some pre-election gifts, which were transient. These measures are permanent. They are permanent measures for both 2019 and 2010 and for all subsequent years. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we are able to do this - I repeat - because we worked hard and with a plan and because our only concern, all these difficult years, were the needs of the many and the difficulties of the Greek people. And today this is our concern, the lives of many. Because, I repeat, we have never come out to create a success story, with unemployment falling 10 points - and it is our achievement - but it is at 18%. 18% of our fellow citizens are unemployed. We are not celebrating, but we are here to continue this difficult path and to be next to these people, to make them feel their daily lives about getting out of the memorial and recovery of the economy. And we believe that the time has come now, it is time, for many to feel this positive course, to refresh the fruits of this great effort. No, we're not back in 2009. We're not back, really. In 2009 pensions were two more, it was not one that we are giving today. We're not back there yet. The potential of the Greek economy is not yet there, but are there possibilities that we use and give to the Greek people and the Greek people have to choose between two projects, between this project, which cares for the many and gives the possibility of a social breath and between what other plan? Your plan. Will you tell us? Will you analyse this to us today? Will you please come on television, not even in the House, and stand up to these plans? We can nowadays...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u15	"Even in the House"!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u16	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u17	Yes, even in the House. Why? Mr. Mitsotakis, I don't understand. Since you have a concern, now that I see you tell me, really, what is the reason why you refuse a television race? What's the point? Do you want to put Mr. Porterator as a moderator to give you scoundrels? Let's get him. Whoever you want us to put. Let's finally get in touch with each other. Come and stand up. Why are you hiding? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Or do you want anyone in common to applaud you after every phrase you read from the Step, which is why you prefer the House? I don't know. In any case, however, I would like to highlight the fundamental difference between what we and what you promise, hiding your anti-grass programme. Because we do not come today to promise, but to guarantee, to implement relief measures for the coming years, not with holes of promises such as yours, that you supposedly drop the surpluses because you are loved by the Europeans and once you are seen you will drop the surpluses, and that we will not give the surpluses in exchange for anti-grassy measures of social destruction, such as what you are hiding from the Greek people. Of course, they are not our partners - not all of them, at least now that the IMF has left the equation - the Nero to want to destroy society, to give them redundancies and give you fewer surpluses. So we don't come with holes of promises. We come here, in practice, and put the stock that already exists from the sacrifices and labors of the Greek people and from our good management, from our own household. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have this plan, which we put into the confidence of the Members of Parliament and the confidence of the Greek people, but I wonder what exactly this plan of the New Democracy is. Because to date, of course, it has escaped from time to time in some speeches by Mr Mitsotakis, truths that he cannot hide, nor that he does not want pensions to be paid, nor that he does not want Christmas gifts to be given and then tries to collect them, but to this day one is the truth. At least that is my assessment as far as I hear you, while I am following you and I think that is the Greek people's assessment: it has not heard a positive proposal from the New Democracy. He hasn't heard a plan. All he has heard - and he has heard it very loudly and with a strong voice - is that Mr Mitsotakis does not like Mr Polakis. I ask you: is this your programming proposal? Your plan and plan are the gossips, the character murders, the yellow guy, the mud and the lie? You're going to the election with this plan?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u18	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u19	In any case, if this plan can create a credible campaign for another country, perhaps for the United States of America - I don't know who your advisers are - in Greece these projects have failed. They have often failed black propaganda plans. In Greece, in order for someone to vote for you, you have to say what you think. I have that feeling at least. In any case, I have the feeling that you are not going to the elections with the "polakia" and with yellowism because you do not have a programme and a plan. I don't want to blame you. I think you have a proposal and a plan, but you are going to the electoral controversy with the 'pole' and yellowism and black propaganda, precisely because you want to be the hell of a hamburger, avoid revealing this plan. You want to hide it from the Greek people. And you want to hide it because your plan eventually and your program knows it, because the Greek people saw it applied to the country from 2010 to 2014. It is the draft of the International Monetary Fund. You come here today and as a diversion you move us - not the finger, sometimes you move us and your finger - and you give us an amendment that you want to table and testify, trying to break open doors, as you did, and when we struggled not to cut pensions and go to Berlin and say other things to your friends and partners: 'Don't let them do so' and 'don't favour them' and 'don't let them cut them off'. And you were coming to the House and you were tabling amendments, supposedly, that you did not want the cut. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But, Mr. Mitsotakis, weren't you the one who went to the Center for Liberal Studies a few days ago and welcomed his positions? Do you know what this Center for Liberal Studies says about what needs to be done in the country's economy? There must be - it says - savings of EUR 2 billion from the tax reduction. That is what the Centre for Liberal Studies and these positions are supporting and what the International Monetary Fund said: 'The expansion of the tax base'. That's what he was telling us. As you wish to see this enlargement of the tax base, you have done so with pensions. When Mr Moskovis came to the House, in the Senate Hall, your other Vice-President, the serious, Mr Hatzidakis, said to him: "Tell us at last, so we know, because we have a pension cut in our schedule." As you did then, so did the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki with the tax-free. You went to the Thessaloniki International Exhibition and you announced the reduction of tax. What did you just say? You said 9% tax rate. Where it's zero and the IMF wants to take it to 20-22%, you said 9%, but in your schedule, your plan is the abolition of dutyfree and you come here and mock the Greek people by squeeze at doors that are open! However, apart from hiding that you want to hide that your economic programme is the hideout of the International Monetary Fund, you also want to hide - and I think that this is your big problem, because you will not be able to do so in the run-up to the European elections - that your programme and your plan in Europe are the plan of your Bavarian friend but deeply blessed, Mr Webber. Because before you were able to hide your embarrassment last night and before you could get these awkward announcements after the press conference we quoted, that we were supposedly stealing you and that was your ideas, Mr. Webber came out to put himself in our plan. And while you sing that we copy you, he said that we are irresponsible to give relief to many. Indeed, he has used this argument against a pan-European project promoted by the European Progressives, the European Socialists and the Left and the Ecologists, the European Greens, for a pan-European unemployment fund. This is your European Chief, your close friend, Mr. Webber. Rejoice him! You should, of course, welcome him because he has the same views as you said recently, last Saturday on television show, that it is populism and impossible to get a pension. So my question today, Mr Mitsotakis, to answer me, is: What are you going to do in the next few days? This'resurrected', this 'plasticism' will you vote for, yes or no? I want to hear an answer today. If you vote for him, you must come out and denounce Mr. Webber your Euro-Government. You should tell Mr. Webber to run the test in his own country. You tell him that we, the parliamentary majority, do not want to, do not want to, vote on these measures. He doesn't want Mr. Webber, he doesn't want Mr. Mitsotakis, we're going to vote for these measures!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u20	You will yell “go back, Mr. Weber”.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u21	You're welcome. Quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u22	That's good. Who said that? Did you say so, Mr. Lightla? I very much appreciate humor. I reward you. Your sense of humor was very good. In addition to humor and joke, however, the Greek people understand that, once again, in this Chamber, in the memorial era, which predicted that they would never come, they would be invited to vote on measures which they do not believe. It will of course also be called upon to vote on measures, which are contrary to its ideology, because they are measures which protect and strengthen the many. However, on the basis of the fact that yesterday the candidate supported by New Democracy and a close friend of Mr Mitsotakis, Mr Weber, came out and came up against these measures, a question arises. The Greek people understand that if the President of the Commission is elected, the first thing he will do is call the Greek Prime Minister and tell him "do not go any further". That's what he'll do. So the Greek people must know that this relief package and significant breath, after eight years, will be implemented and implemented if SYRIZA is in the government and if Mr Weber is not in the position of the President of the Commission. Because every vote in the European elections in New Democracy is a vote of support for the opposing and supportive of austerity, Mr Weber. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] As far as the New Democracy stand is concerned, Mr Mitsotakis will answer us, but I have one thing to say: Or you will have to vote against the measures that we will bring, Mr Mitsotakis or you will have to withdraw your support from Mr Vebber, after yesterday's post, after yesterday's tweet, after yesterday's position. You can't do both. Or a priest or a couple. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I've already been far away. I don't know that you've taken into account the fact that things are coming this way. But you have made us an important gift with this motion of censure on Mr Polakis. Because we have taken the opportunity to talk about the big, critical, the economy, what you want to avoid. But these three days, Members are given the opportunity to talk about everything, to talk about the economy in particular, but also about our health. Very important is this, and thank you for doing this to us and giving us this opportunity. Because I believe that deep down, your problem has nothing to do with morals and style. It's mostly about health. You have a special ideological vibe in everything we did in health. Because we, in health, brought these difficult years of nineteen thousand recruitments when you as Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, brought redundancies. Because we, in health, brought the resolution of the hospitals' finances, which had a deficit of 730 million in 2014. Today they have a surplus of 180 million. Because we, in health, went ahead with a brave reform of primary care with local health units when you had left primary care at mercy. Of course, above all, you are very disturbed and what is being raised through the activities of our ministers and our health officials and about the 'washouts' of the past decades. We haven't taken into account. We also have more financial space for 2019, but we said not to make you find yourself in bigger panic than we did to you. And why do we have a larger budget area? Because 200m euros from the rebate, which you did not sign to return to the pharmaceutical industry, were hidden in the drawers of your ministers, who did not sign it to get the public fund! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's what's bothering you. You are disturbed by the scandals in the medicine, overcompensations, or your day-specific offshore, called "CARBON", "gifts", mediation. This all bothers you. Your reproach therefore, I believe, in essence, is against the efforts of the government in the National Health System, which you have broken up. But I would also like to mention something that has really bothered me. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I think that these days have also been annoying attempt. I am not saying, I understand that it is self-evident to raise the tone, to make it a matter - as far as the issue of our fellow peoples, fellow citizens with disabilities and as far as your fellow candidate, Mr Kymburopoulos, is concerned, which I respect and honour. But I have the feeling that you do not respect him enough and you do not honor him, Mr. Mitsotakis, because you walk him as a "glazer" right and left and wander his disability. You use him as an election tool. That's what you've been doing all these days.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u23	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u24	Yesterday, your resignation used the disabled as the vulnerable part of the Greek society, who could not buy out with favors and hold a life-long hostage status. We are dealing with our fellow citizens with disabilities at parity and with respect. We are dealing with them on an equal footing and with respect, because we are the only and first government that has taken care of in this country to specialise in the United Nations Directive on the rights of the disabled. The highest right for people with disabilities is to join society and work on equal terms. This inclusion, ladies and gentlemen, requires positive discrimination. That is our view. Such permanent positive discrimination we implemented in a difficult period and within the Memorandum regime from 2015 to 2019. I would like to remind you of a few measures that we have adopted. 15% of the new posts that we have proclaimed, legislated and implemented are exclusively people with disabilities, in addition to 5%, who exist. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] These aren't gifts. These aren't favors. We have realised that there is additional moleculosis at all places for disabled people. We have realised that the disabled person, appointed for training or fixed-term employment, will not lose his allowance while having mental health and mental deprivation problems, finds a job. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Excludes the invalidity allowance from his income. The disabled child, with all the benefits that the state provides for children and families, will receive. We were the ones who strengthened the special treatment, with thousands of teachers recruited and voted four and a half thousand additional posts, once the country got out of the memoranda. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are a bonus for all the COMCOMEPs, which include people with disabilities. At the same time, we were the ones who took a number of measures concerning the reimbursement of the disability rate, the equal access of the disabled to the urban environment, to what we call dematerialisation. So let us not move the finger on these issues, and much more so, the fact that the fact that he has always considered it or, in doing so, he has been conducting a government policy for our disabled citizens as second-class citizens. Because in the society that we see, but also in the society that we aspire to build, there are no prejudices or discrimination. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would therefore like to close my speech by saying this. Mr. Mitsotakis, these three years you have done many times, successive heavy predictions. In all these forecasts, you had a great "success"! You said one thing that the government would not be able to complete the first assessment, the other time you said that the government would lead to new pension cuts and that the cut-off would be applied, the other day you told us that the pension cut was given, at the same time you told us that a fourth and fifth memorandum was coming. When we got out of the memorandum, you told us we'd never get out of the market. We have the best interest rate today. You've all failed. You also failed in the Treaty of Ambassadors because you had also specified and discounted the failure or non-violence, the fall of the government. You've all failed. Now there is one last prediction, in order to completely collapse your credibility, that the Greek people will trust you in the next elections. In view of all the previous forecasts, we have rather an image of what will happen. But that is what the call will define. I, ladies and gentlemen, would like to ask the House today for the vote of confidence of the Members of our National Representation to be taken on a project that has a start, middle and end. I would like to ask for the vote of confidence in a programme, which concerns the'short day', which concerns the strengthening of the many, but at the same time I would like to ask both the Greek Parliament and the Greek people, on May 26, both the vote of confidence in this programme, but also the vote of condemnation of the plans and programmes which led us to the destruction, vote of reproach and condemnation in the New Democracy with the International Monetary Fund programme, with the neoliberal programme, with Mr Weber's programme. I would like to point out that the historical intersection of August 2018 is a historical intersection, which cannot and should not remain at the moment, to remain incomplete. It is a historical cut, which must be continuous and to keep this historic cut going, the place, society and Greece must move forward. Now that we can, now that we know, now that we have a plan, now that we have power, it's time to give the labors and sacrifices of the many back, because they deserve them. And this effort will be rewarded by the Greek people. Because it is time for the Greek people to judge us and will judge us for our proposals, for our positions, for our ideas, for our values. Be sure that trust will be double, both from Parliament and the people! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u25	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-seven students and students and four teachers attendants from the 5th Municipal School of Chios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I call on the Chief of Officerial Response and Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u26	Mr Tsipras, I understood very carefully why you never wanted the motion of censure to be debated, which we tabled against Mr Polakis. This proposal does not concern its work at the Ministry of Health. It's about his behavior, the spirit and the style of authority he's breathing. Of course, with the support you have given to him today and you are entirely matched by these behaviours. So we will also discuss the economy, Mr Tsipras, but we will discuss the economy, after discussing the major issue of the motion of censure, as we have tabled it. And we'll talk here in the House, Mr. Tsipras. I was very impressed by the fact that at the very edge of your speech, 'to discuss even in the House'. "Even in the House", Mr. Tsipras? Here we are, Mr. Tsipras. Forty times we've discussed here. We're not teleshopping going to the channels, dealing with who's gonna make numbers. Here is the temple of democracy, Mr Tsipras, here we will discuss and here you will apologise. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] If you want to have a television dialogue, you have the opportunity to do something very simple: you are now proclaiming national elections and we will do what you want, when Parliament is closed, for the economy, for the Prespecies, for the refugee issue, for all that, under the responsibility of the President of this House, they have never been discussed, because the rights of the minority are clearly violated here with regard to prior-day discussions, which have never been organised. So we will discuss all this, Mr Tsipras, when the House is closed, when you are calling national elections, and on television, as always. In the meantime, let me remind you that we have done, if I am not mistaken, forty-one debate. Citizens, I believe they have come to their conclusions. You always claim that you have a great rhetorical comfort and parliamentary supremacy. It will be judged by the poll. I will make the prediction: on May 26, one will smile and one will cry, and the New Democracy will succeed in the great political victory that will lead to a major political change. And then, come back here to the House, tell us all these nice things about how much the Greek people trust you and how happy they are with the situation in which you have brought the country. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So we are here again after the brief Monday sitting. You were gone on Monday, you were not here, you chose to be in Xanthi or, otherwise, you have always speeded up parliamentary procedures. We have, of course, seen from Monday that a week, in this case a few days, are indeed, as the Anglo-Saxons say, a lot of time in politics. From Polakis to Matty, from Eye to Worms and From The Worms to Last Year's Fate!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u27	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u28	I'll talk to you about this. I'll talk to you about it. Wait, you'll hear it all today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u29	Shame on you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u30	It's no shame at all. It's embarrassing what your leader does. That's a disgrace, not what I'm saying. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] From the fowls, then, we arrived at yesterday's feast of the desperate 'will' of the new demagogy for the government's 'treats' of the last minute, Mr Tsipras, before the light of the elections, which you are so trembling, but which cannot change the reality of Greek citizens today. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have tried to friendlyly in the last 24 hours to change the agenda, to give back very little of the too much you have taken from the citizens in four years. But society has paid and paid the taxes, which you have put and knows that very well, and in last minute's impulse it only sees panic going elsewhere. You spoke, Mr. Tsipras, about a plan, you returned in the bay, canceled your tours on Epirus and Arta for just one reason, because you knew that the news was dealing with other issues, because your moral advantage, Mr. Tsipras, was sunk in the blue-green waters of the Ionian Sea. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You're laughing, Mr. Tsipras. Indeed, it will be funny, because, where they once called you "to, to him, to him, to the Prime Minister!", they will now say "to him, to him, to Tsipras the scavenger!". That's how the Greek society will remember you! On the left of the occupants, on the left of the horn!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u31	Inspection, you've done it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Darkness, please don't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u33	Why such an irritation? You approve of all this, I guess. You like them! Or are you jealous? Do you want to do the same?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u34	"Delfinari" you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u35	Stop! Don't make me say names!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u36	But I have news for you, Mr. Tsipras. No government - and there have been many precedents - has turned the climate back, with last-minute benefits. Citizens know very well who's been povertying them for the last four years. They know very well who dismantled the middle class. They know very well who cut off the C.E.S.A., Mr. Tsipras. They know very well that today, the new pensioners, Mr. Katrugalos, come out with 38% pensions lower than the old pensioners. People know all that! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But let's start over. The starting point of today's debate, Mr Tsipras, no matter how much you have said about these, is the attitude of the Deputy Minister of Health, as a general feature of government policy. The day before yesterday, when we tabled the motion of censure against Paul Paul Paul Paul, the Prime Minister chose to abstain. Mr. Drasakis was found in the cabinet alone. He spoke very little, with his obvious discomfort in his voice, as he performed chores, as I imagine many would perform chores if they had you defending Mr Polakis. They were all here, all of them, fifteen of your colleagues, all catastrophic and silent. You probably don't like the look of your government in the mirror. But today, whatever lies you came back to say, Mr. Tsipras, the lies are over. Because, basically, you have covered Mr Polakis with your attitude. I see, too, all the ministers in the chairs... [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Paul Paulakis, enters the Chamber.]] Welcome to him and he's late!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u37	I found you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u38	Obviously, the bitter glass you all want to drink together! You may have turned the proposal of distrust from the New Democracy against Paul Polakis into a vote of confidence by the government, thereby blackmailing all those Members who had the courage, at least in some of their public appearances, to be different from Mr Polakis, such as Friend and many others. What do you say to all the MPs? "With Paul to the end, otherwise power end"! That's what you tell them. That is why you do not dare discuss the proposal of distrust from the New Democracy! You may, however, put such dilemmas to blackmail party discipline, so you are all Polakis. Tsipras, then, and Paulakis is one and the same. And I'm really wondering, Mr. Tsipras: What is this, after all, links you so closely to Mr. Polakis that you are forced to identify yourself entirely with him? It is not only your shared holidays in the beautiful Sfakia, the seasons of the merciless and umbrellas on the beach. Because now, the umbrellas are set up elsewhere than I've seen. It's more than that. There's a reason. Paulakis says and does what you want to say and do, but you find it difficult because of your office. Because the real Tsipras is the Paulakis of the dissolved hospitals and party ruptures. Because the real Tsipras is Paulakis threatening judges and journalists. He's the politician who hides the victims in Matty and gives a hypocrisy show in front of the cameras. Because the real Tsipras is Paulakis, threatening journalists to find three meters below the earth. Because the real Tsipras is Paulakis who is circulating and armed, smoking as Deputy Minister of Health, walking laws and even boiling down the European Health Commissioner who points out to him that self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u39	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u40	Of course, I was really moved, Mr. Tsipras, with your interest in disabled people. But the real Paulakis and the real Tsipras are identified when Paulis undeterredly and remorsefully attacking a fighter of life, such as Stelios Kibouropoulos, and he doesn't even dare apologise! And you come and cover him today, because you dare not take distances from him! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, - because there is not only the laalicy, there is the fugitive - the real Tsipras is Paulakis, who in the hard runs to hide behind parliamentary immunity and Article 86, which he otherwise denounces. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] To use a ratio from a confessed smart advertising by Mr. Kammenos, Paulis is a pit bowl when he attacks Kymburopoulos, but not even when he is going to face justice. And if you weren't Paulakis, Mr. Tsipras, you wouldn't so completely cover the fascist behaviour of your friend Minister. You have covered him, as you have not covered any political executive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u41	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, at Monday's sitting I presented in detail the politicians, morals, worthwhile reasons why they imposed on Parliament to condemn 'pollism' as a threat to our democracy at the end of the day. I liked him as a "father" for which Manos Hadjidakis once spoke, inviting us not to get used to his presence. And I stated clearly that such fascist behaviors do not belong in Greece of the 21st century. Mr. Tsipras has fully covered Mr. Polakis. It's a choice that also emerged from recent press releases on government handling in Matty. Because, you know, the facts are stubborn and avenged. The Prime Minister's choice to adopt 'polluterism' by parliamentary control has become bomerang. Tsipras and Paulakis were together hiding dead in Matti, lying together, pretending together and throwing responsibility to the inhabitants and the media. What happened next is now known in Panhellenic. Mr. Tsipras went on vacation hiding in a wardrobe when the country still counted her dead in Matty. That is the aesthetic and that is the morality of power, as your Prime Minister understands. That, of course, is the mere life on the decks of pluralism! This is the supposed battle against interlocutory! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm surprised! I wonder, Mr Tsipras, why, today, you have not repeated this dilemma you have always put in your last speech 'with the many or the elite'. How can you say it, Mr. Tsipras? How can you talk about elite again? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Except - there's another explanation - if you're confronted with elites, as Troski would seem to say, to throw the pluralism out of the inside. There's that explanation too. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So this is the supposed moral advantage of the political space...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u44	As much as you yell for yourself, you hear them yourself. So this is the supposed moral advantage of the political area that Mr Tsipras considers embodies. I would not say today in Matti if Mr Tsipras did not insist on insulting everyone's memory of what has happened tragically. Mr. Tsipras, have you understood what you said three days ago to people who were burned in this dramatic disaster? You said that the material that came out in news is reheated food. Note the expression you used: 'Resurrected food', Mr. Tsipras? Did you say that in the hole of your speech? If that's the case, fix it somehow. How is it possible in this way to insult the memory of a hundred two people? Is it a resurrected food to hear people say that "there are dead and they won't let us announce them"? Is it reheated food or proof of the gross hypocrisy and the scene you set up that night? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Nor would I personally attach great importance to the luxurious vessel in which the Prime Minister chose to take his vacation if he hadn't had a career incriminating all the entrepreneurs and any relationship with them when he is building his political account with extreme hypocrisy in the supposed battle against elites, which he allegedly opposes, while in secret - not evidently, because you obviously knew the consequences of the publicity that would take such a choice - you are smuggling with them. However, the timing of this summer's recreation of Mr. Tsipras with the trial of a people does not allow me to silence, much more when the Greeks are now learning the paradox: that the direction of Ithaca for the end - supposedly - of the third memorandum was drawn up on the deck of a multimillion-dollar yacht. And Ithaca was chosen because Mr. Tsipras was simply on vacation in the Ionian Sea. And you have the courage, Mr. Tsipras, really go, take the holidays, go to Ithaca, pull out a ten against elites - I have the text here - and then go back and run nothing. I submit to the minutes the order of Ithaca, to remember what you said about the elites. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But this story exposes you. They'll send them to you later on to the cell phone for what you need to answer. Listen to me, it's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u45	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u46	Portasalte.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u47	Yes, does the Portuguese send you messages? What's going on here? Or the Bauxevan? I don't know. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But here, this story also exposes you for a further reason. For these holidays were not made, Mr Tsipras, without consideration. Mrs Katerina Panagopoulos, apart from a prime minister, was appointed a month ago an ambassador from the personalities. I have here the relevant FEK and I submit it in the Minutes. Lucky? I don't think so. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] While I hear - and I hope you will deny it or confirm it - that it is already proposed by the government to represent Greece forever in the International Olympic Committee. In short, you give me your wardrobe, and I make you an ambassador and an immortal. That's who you are, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But you saw, ladies and gentlemen... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Yeah, I understand that this conversation is really awkward for you. You've had a career on all of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u48	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u49	But restrain your irritation a little. Mr. Tsipras, the facts are avenged. You have risen into power in a crescendo of populism and lies and fall into a cloud of wrath, ridicule and deception. Mr. Tsipras, other politicians have lost elections, but they have lost dignity. False politicians have known a lot about the place, but such a hypocrite like you no one, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In fact, I am sorry that Mr Tsipras imposes on you all this 'pollism' as a doctrine of politics which will now recognize this attitude as a whole with SYRIZA. You know, there are limits between political action and personal dignity. It's clear. We all know. Today, in the proposal of confidence, which the Prime Minister is asking for, there is no purpose, no great central decision, such as the Ambassadors' agreement, which you must defend. And I imagine that some of you inside you keep a portrait of courtesy and honorable to yourself. So, in just one vote will you answer: are you all the same, are you with Tsipras of the "Polakis" or are you with Greece of many? Citizens, Mr. Tsipras, see and judge. They no longer believe in your lies, which you continue to say today. You insist once again on twisting our own positions. You have spoken once again, Mr Tsipras, that the New Democracy has no plan or that it has a hidden plan or that it has a neoliberal plan. Mr. Tsipras, our plan is here. In this form... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much noise you make, you know, the speaker sounds, you don't sound. This form, Mr. Tsipras, has been our programme for Greece for the next day and has been published for three months. So stop it and give it to the Prime Minister to study it a little. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned form, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So stop saying that New Democracy doesn't have a plan, doesn't have a program or has a secret program...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u52	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u53	The reality is, Mr. Tsipras, you find it difficult to make the burnt land you leave behind, you and your government, because it can't make promises he knows he can't make. And the truth is avengeed as much as Mr. Poppa's trolls are trying to falsify her. So today I heard the Prime Minister lie, describe a New Democracy that, as I have told you many times, Mr Tsipras, exists only, unfortunately, in your fantasy world. Lying who? The one who imposed twenty-nine new taxes on the allegedly austerity that we will impose. To lie that he cares about the weak, the one who abolished the CSCE. Lying that he's a patriot the man who recognized Macedonian identity and language in Skopje!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u54	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u55	Never be the left radical, when the Social Democrats. Even Mr. Sanchez, whom you rushed to embrace, called you a demagogue and a liar. And now you're rushing to hug him. You have no way to lie. That's why all the roads that lead to Maximus are blocked by cages. That is why you are denounced the complexity, while on the Eurobond it reads 'Skin'. That is why you are swindling over the surpluses, while they come from the taxes paid by the incursion of the Greeks and financed by the pensions that are not paid - two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners are waiting for their pensions, Mr Tsipras, for them you did not say a word - and public investments which are not carried out. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That is why Mr. Tsipras lies in allegedly talking about great growth, while the other countries that passed through the memoranda had cumulatively over the last four years four times the growth of ours. And he promises better days, when the days that Greek citizens live are disgusting. The Greeks know, Mr Tsipras, what Greece you will deliver: a Greece where in one way or another you have financially injured all citizens. Because that is what the arithmetic, a Greece poor, a Greece with a dissolved middle class and deprived of the dynamic youth that it chose to leave the country, a youth that has to take the baton, to rebuild the Greece we want together. It would be pointless to continue invoking reality as an answer to your propaganda. After all, you know, Mr Tsipras, whatever we say today in the House, in eighteen days from today we have elections. And the citizens will decide whether they believe your story, a Greek that comes out of the memorials and creates prosperity, or whether they believe that their lives have become worse in the last four years and will put their hopes in the New Democracy. A little more patience. We'll know in eighteen days. But I am surprised, Mr Tsipras, that your ideological defeat is also marked by a desperate attempt to copy part of our policy. What can I add, when Mr Chakalotos suddenly states that he is in favour of revising the surpluses when he accepted this policy? You emptied him, of course, at the Financial Times and said that 'I want the 3.5% surpluses, it's fine, I want to serve them'. What can I say when you come now after four years and ask for a tax reduction that you have put in, copying of part of a programme that I have announced since the 2016 IGC? Do you remember what you were saying then when I announced these tax reductions, Mr. Tsipras? Do you remember what your Minister, Mr. Juliarakis, said about the question of VAT in the focus, how did he degrade this measure? And he comes now and you copy it and you implement it. It's too late, it's never! And how can I explain that you just electorally remembered the hundred and twenty instalments. Mr Tsipras, I do not like it, but since you are talking about the country you are handing over, this is Greece today, Mr Tsipras. Look over here. Look at the private debt evolution here. Of the EUR 85 billion at 140 billion. This is the Greece you hand over, Mr. Tsipras. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you come here with three years' delay to celebrate a regulation, which should, on the one hand, have brought it much earlier, on the other hand, you should never have allowed the growth of private debt, which is the result of the policy you have imposed. We said, Mr. Tsipras, that I understand why you imitate the voice of Andreas Papandreou, but not even to make skanks of our own program. This, Mr Tsipras, is going too much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I want to say a few words and comment on your yesterday's announcements and tell you exactly what you hid. Aren't you telling me, Mr. Tsipras, what you presented yesterday is a plan to exit the crisis? Why didn't you present it all a month ago, three months ago in the budget, and alertly cancel your tours to get back to change the agenda? Is this a documented and substantial project? Because you know very well, you understand now - smart man you are - what will happen to the elections and you are just playing your change. You come and you say that you will make a guarantee of 5 billion from the Greeks' laxity to ensure the tolerance of the partners, interfering with unequal things, confronting the country's cash outflows with the obligations you have committed to producing specific primary surpluses. I don't know what economics these are and who's telling you. I'm really sorry for Mr. Tsakalotus who recommends you such a mess. Now tell me by hand to heart, Mr. Tsipras, is it a success that you're reloading the VAT where you found him in the government of Samaras? Four years was the VAT at 24% and you're going to take the applause out because you're turning him where you found him? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As regards the 15th pension, there is no thirteenth pension. There is an election allowance for their retired purchasers. That's all there is. The third pension, Mr. Tsipras, does not exist! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All this is happening in an economy that is constantly forced to revise growth downwards. This table here illustrates the failure of your government policy. State budget forecasts and what development you have finally made and what over-performance you are talking about when the main indicator of the economy, the rate of growth has fallen out in all four years of your term of office. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Well, let's get this straight. There is no over-performance, there is over-taxation. And because you told us that, with your own measures, your measures will be on a permanent basis, I would remind you of what you have imposed on us over the last four years. Increase in VAT everywhere. Increase in indirect taxes everywhere. Increases in fuel, in phones, in drinks, even in coffee. The cut of E.R.S. Yes, indeed, that was a permanent measure, Mr. Tsipras. Reduction of new pensions with the Katrugalo insurance. Delays in new pensions. Cuts in the public investment programme to bring out surpluses, but at the expense of growth. Confiscations and auctions at the expense of millions of Greeks. These are the permanent measures you have imposed. And now, within the amok of pre-electional impulse, the Prime Minister has suddenly remembered the reduction in duty, which I would remind you, Mr Tsipras, you have legislated. At the moment, as things stand, this reduction will apply from 2020, apparently knowing that someone else will be ruling then. And you are saying today that this reduction will not apply to your days. This is the definition of hypocrisy, Mr Tsipras. We have tabled a very simple amendment to the House, Mr Tsipras, on the subject of 'Abrogation of the pre-legislative reduction in tax rates'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Give her to the Prime Minister. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis tables for the Minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I ask you: will you sign it? Will you vote for it, yes or no? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Will you vote for it, yes or no? Don't raise your hands with questions. The question is very simple. Clean words, clean deeds. Do it now, because if you do not do it now, you have no excuse, Mr Tsipras, and we will all understand that these few things that you give back to the pensioners, you are the one who will get them back to the multiplier by reducing duty. So come on, now, let us vote together on the amendment. What are you afraid of, ladies and gentlemen? What are you afraid of? Are you afraid of something? Are you afraid that once again you will be irreversibly exposed to this monumental populism of yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u56	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing you today, but I also address all our fellow citizens, because I believe that we all deserve better, and all of us can do better. We can, in fact, leave behind the division and build a brighter future. Today, since much talk is about what is progressive and what is conservative, progressive policy is not what recycles passions on the shelf of history. The real progressive policy is facing ahead. Of course, progressive policy, Mr Tsipras, is uniting and does not separate growth as a balanced relationship between entrepreneurship on the one hand and employment on the other. It protects the weakest. It guarantees security and prevents violence. It promotes the rule of law and a responsible foreign policy and places the public at the service of the citizen. It protects the environment and requires good public education and health for the weakest. So we mean, since you want to hear what our plan is, progress, progress that will resurrect the middle class, a middle class that has always been the backbone of Greece, allowing every generation to deliver a homeland better than the previous one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u58	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u59	And such a policy seems to me to be really based on a new, wide social alliance. Progressive citizens will have the floor, Mr Tsipras. They'll make Greece bright again. I'm addressing them. I invite them to say no to inertia, to say no to leveling, to say no to splitting, to say no to abstention and certainly not to say no to outdated dividing lines. In the next elections, responsible citizens will judge the future of the country for a strong European Greece, a Europe and a world that is changing rapidly. They are people I meet everywhere in Greece. They are people who have been removed from politics frustrated. Now, however, they see that they cannot leave their destiny to others. They are citizens who believed in false words, the great, 2015 and betrayed. Others are citizens who entered the vortex of a false referendum, but now they want to move forward. They are, however, friends of other democratic parties who recognise that a common front is needed against populism. These are all the currents of a new Greece. And that is the concept of a New Democracy, which looks forward. Our programme, Mr Tsipras, is public, concrete, realistic and costly and does exactly the opposite. Because, in fact, here, we have a considerable difference. It's good to explain it to the citizens to understand it. What are you guys doing? What was your policy? It has been unregulated and the ministers of your financial staff have confessed. You exaggerate, overcharge the middle class, shrink growth to achieve surpluses greater than they ask you to return to creditors more than they ask you to let you give back a few escalations. Our plan is different, Mr. Tsipras. It is a project that proposes low taxes, real reforms, emphasis on investment and new jobs. I have not heard the word 'investments' and 'new jobs' from your mouth, Mr Tsipras. I didn't hear them! You didn't say a word about this in your new vision. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Where will wealth be created, Mr. Tsipras? Is it to be created by the public appointed only by means of a project contract? Will it be created by the children who are currently spending their time on the unemployment fund, looking forward to a stable job and who are forced to work at EUR 360 a month? Is this your vision of Greece of the future? We therefore emphasise the real good work and investment so that creditors are paid by a surplus that will result from growth and not from overtaxation, from new wealth created, not from the backwardness of the Greeks. This is our big difference, Mr Tsipras. And it is, in fact, an ideological difference, which must be emerged and which must be understood by the Greek citizens. We want the pie to grow in the interests of all and not some, and that is why we are linking annual growth to wage increases. I imagine you've heard our proposal, Mr. Tsipras. The minimum wage should be increased to twice the rate of GDP growth. You've heard of her. Isn't that right? Or has he escaped you? That's why we're reducing HISBIA. I imagine you've heard our proposal that we want to reduce HISBIA, which you did not say today, by 30% for all Greeks, not just for some. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We believe that only new investments - particularly private investments - will bring many good and well-paid jobs. And yes, Mr. Tsipras, we invest in Greek creativity. Our social policy also provides for the abolition of the katrugalos aggregation and the establishment of an insurance policy. Because I heard you again today say about Pinochet project. I have heard you once again lie and put words in my mouth which I have never said and to ignore the fact that a three-pillar insurance policy applies to all European countries today. You who are talking about Pinochet insurance, show me a European country, a serious prosperous European country where a three-pillar insurance policy does not apply. Mr. Tsipras, you talked to us about the weak. You forgot that the minimum guaranteed income was a New Democracy policy, Mr. Tsipras. It was applied by the previous government. You forgot...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u60	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u61	You didn't want to. You've forgotten about this. To refresh your memory, that for a year you have been fighting it. You didn't vote for it. "Poverty trap" you called it the minimum guaranteed income at that time! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But you are disturbed, Mr. Tsipras, when the New Democracy highlights its social agenda. You're disturbed when we say... [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, will you impose the order in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u62	Please don't explain back between you and me. What's going on there? Mr. Rizzo, what's going on? Don't talk. Neither wonder nor explain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u63	You're disturbed, Mr. Tsipras, because you're spoiled by the narrative when we talk about the need not to have a child who doesn't have access to a nursery. You are disturbed when we talk about fertility, the great threat to the country today, and we say yes, that we want to give EUR 2 000 to every Greek bird born in the country. Have you said a word about the problem of infertility? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You are very disturbed when we talk about education, about public education, not about private education, a training that gives weight to specialisation, a education that links the skills that children will acquire with the labour market. You are disturbed, Mr. Tsipras, because you are spoiled by the account, when we tell you that we want to establish a model school in every regional section, starting from western Athens. You're ruined by the account that we're with the few of us, and you're with the many. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It disturbs you when we talk about universities with modern curriculum programs that will belong to students, ideas and knowledge, not to gangs who want to make them available for immunity and lawlessness with the tolerance of the government. And yes, it bothers you when we tell you that university asylum will be abolished. It will not be modified, it will be abolished! It disturbs you, because behind the asylum there are the various jackass you tolerate with your own policy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And it bothers you when the New Democracy talks about security and you think this is a right-wing policy. It is a policy with a class mark, you say, while neglecting that, without security, there is neither freedom nor democracy, whether it is the precursors of universities or the poor neighbourhoods of western Athens and Thessaloniki, neighbourhoods that we need to take behind crime. It is of course annoying to you when we are talking about upgrading public officials, about an effective state, in which all officials will be evaluated. You're annoyed by the concept of evaluation. It bothers you because you have done nothing on this front. And it bothers you when we talk about recruitment. Yes, we want fewer recruitments than you plan, but recruits targeted, Mr. Tsipras, where there really is a need. Is it annoying to you that the recent elements of the AACC show, for you who are supposedly interested in upgrading the public sector, that from the recruitments that took place in 2018 what percentage, Mr. Tsipras, are scientific staff? Not even 10%! Not even 10% of the recruitments you've made are trained scientific staff! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So all this is bothering you, why - what should we do? - They're ruining the account of a so-called class New Democracy. But you forget that New Democracy is not a class party, it is the great folk party that struggles for the interests of all Greeks and is the only party that has real roots in Greek society. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] All this is not independent of our European programme. I heard nothing, Mr Tsipras, today about your plans for Europe. Did you talk a lot about Mr. Webber again, but can you, Mr. Tsipras, tell me who you are supporting for President of the next Commission? You can answer me with a word, if you want. Mr Tsipras, who do you support for President of the Commission? Who? But don't you hear? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr Tsipras, with one word - I give you the opportunity - to tell me who you are supporting for the President of the Commission. Who do you support for President of the Commission?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u64	I'll answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u65	Nobody supports you because you're lost in space. Because elsewhere, you step on and find yourself somewhere else. But you can't answer that? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We support Mr. Weber. Yeah. He's a representative of the largest political family. Who do you stand for? And how will you connect Brussels to Mr Madouros Caracas?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u66	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u67	There's a solution. You can once again establish a link between Mr. Pappas and the noble support of Mr. Petsitis and Mr. Artemios. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because I forgot, apart from vessels, you're hanging out with people's children like Mr. Petsitis. I forgot about that. I missed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u68	Do you support Mr. Guido?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u69	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u70	We, Mr President, yes, support Mr Guido for a transitional President of Venezuela against the Madurus junta. You explain to us why you are supporting a regime that is trampled by tank protesters. What finally connects you to Venezuela? The Maduro regime will eventually fall and we will know the truth and then you will really start sweating. It's time. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We, Mr Tsipras, are therefore opposed to five reasons why we claim a great, clean victory in the European elections so that we can connect national priorities to European targets. The first reason is because we are proud that our prolongation with our founder, Konstantinos Karamanlis, put Greece in Europe, when some of you protested in the streets and shouted other slogans, in Europe of security and prosperity. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The second reason is that our programme has solutions relating to Europe's priorities, such as protecting our borders as a Community. Let me see when you're going to say this at some point, Mr. Tsipras, that Greece must guard its borders. Let me hear it in your mouth. Let me finally hear it in your mouth. Let's hear it. New jobs with European capital investment, emphasis on innovation, but also protection against climate change, resources for farmers, for the new agricultural policy. We didn't hear a word about it. The new common agricultural policy 2021-2017 has not been discussed. Specific measures for our islands and mountainous areas. We can work together with Europe to have a strong Greece in a strong Europe. And, yes, Mr Tsipras, it bothers you that in these claims we will have strong allies, because, yes, there are some in Europe, in which Mr Weber is also in, who are prepared to open the debate on the primary surpluses. This debate that you do not want to open, some people want to open it. And I ask the Greek citizens: is it good, as we vote for Greece and Europe, that the next government belongs to the largest European political family or is it anywhere between European socialists, leftists, greens, I don't know where else you want to join? Is that bad? If we succeed in reducing surpluses, will it be bad for the country or good?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u71	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u72	The third reason is that the New Democracy is taking the lead in the fight against right-wing, but also left-wing populism, and the reality is that only modern centre-right groups can become an impediment to the extremes and populist demagogy. You've forgotten lately, you've stopped confronting me with Mr. Orban. Now you've discovered Mr. Webber. Only you did not say today 'Go back, Mr. Weber!', to remember the 'Go back, Madame Merkel', which you were saying. But, Mr Orban, you have forgotten him because it does not suit you that I first raised the issue of his unacceptable behaviour, because only we, the modern centre-right, can talk at the same time about an open Europe and a safe Europe and incorporate positive, even critical approaches for today's European Union, because only New Democracy combines true European cooperation with true patriotism. The fourth reason is - and let me say it - that we have the best Eurobond. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Citizens will decide, don't worry!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u73	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u74	We did not recycle the old Eurobond, which you painted a new one. We do not have Mr Kurublis in our vote, we are proud of that! You have recycled the so-called old, which you have conquered and sent it now to the European Parliament! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Experience and renewal, continuity and enlargement meets in this ballot... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr. President, will you do your job?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u75	I'm doing better than you can imagine. Please a lot, okay?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u76	I don't think you're doing very well. I don't want to...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u77	And please shorten your speech, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u78	I speak as much as the Prime Minister speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u79	No, you speak an hour, much more than the Prime Minister, and there are five other speakers, Heads, who constantly make sense to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u80	Perhaps the explanation is the many holidays you allow.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u81	Luckily, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u82	I'm hanging up. Fortunately?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u83	No, I'm not happy to mean that there are vacations, thank God we've come to an understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u84	Oh, okay. I am closing with this, with the fifth reason that it is actually the first and the top one. On 26 May, yes, we are voting for Members, regional leaders, mayors. But we are actually turning the call of the European elections into the first step towards a major political change. And we are sending this message of political change, which I believe the great majority of Greeks want today. It will also be the first opportunity, after almost four years, to express this rage in the poll, this'so far'! which the Greeks feel today. And this vote will not be a simple message of protest to some, nor an inexpensive signal of sympathy to others. The citizen must not spend this vote on easy slogans or cancel it in shapes without results. It is certainly a decision of responsibility, a mandate that must be given both with the heart and with the mind. In the offshore we will not only elect MEPs and local authorities. We are also deciding which Greece we want. As I said, this is the first chance the people have been talking to themselves. And it is the only way people can answer the lies, the taxes, the division, the national mistake of the Ambassadors to condemn a four-year regression, but at the same time to give the country's re-start. On May 26, then, I call on Greek women and Greeks to send a message of hope, clean and bronze, a message of change, a message of optimism. In a few days' time, the country will return a page, because the Greeks deserve better and it is up to us - in the hands of everyone - to bring this bright future faster and we will bring it, because together we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u86	Let go of 'em!'. I run the procedure! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how to operate, forty-five students and students and three trainers from Maniacos Kastoria High School and from the 2nd High School of Kastoria. The House welcomes you guys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Prime Minister, for how long do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u87	I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u88	You are inviting the Conference of Presidents and breaking it first! And you do it all the time!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Loverdo, we have a three-day conversation. It's gonna be a comfortable conversation. That's what we've been doing for three and a half years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u90	Respect yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u91	And we respect ourselves and the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u92	This is Chiefs' conversation! Not just two Chiefs. All the Chiefs!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u93	Sure. All Chiefs. The comfort they have, but also the order they will have.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u94	Put at least time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Loverdos, time is given to all the leaders. We have another two and a half days. There's no need for that much nervousness.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u96	Your tolerance violates the process!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Loverdo, sit down, please. You did not protest when the Chief of Officer's Opposition spoke sixty-two minutes and the Prime Minister Fifty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u98	We protested!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u99	And you won't protest when he gets the floor again. You protest again and again when I speak, because you are the winners of the New Democracy. That's what you are! Sit down! Enough! Mr. Mitsotakis doesn't need your own minions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u100	Please sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u101	Your tolerance violates the process!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u102	Your protest had taken place beforehand. That's clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u103	Of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u104	Please don't argue. We're still at the beginning of the meeting. It's 21.00 o'clock, and we've got two and a half days, and all the chiefs are talking comfortably. Please don't stay in the proceedings. No one's stealing each other's time. We are eighteen days before the elections. It is understandable that the agenda is great. We're all political. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u105	I'm not going to get far. I'll talk for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u106	Speak as far as you think, about the economy of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u107	Mr Mitsotakis, I am aware, as I believe all the Greek people, who have followed today's debate, your deep strategic and political deadlock. After all, the New Democracy Parliamentary Group also realised it first. You created chills of excitement during your sixty-minute speech. In fact, however, I never expected you to come to the point here today in the Greek Parliament to be Stefano Chios of the political life of the country. I've never expected that to happen. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But the downhill ends is the bottom. You get him today. But if you wish, Mr Mitsotakis, we will speak openly about everything. You know, I've been 11 years in the political life of the country. Eleven years, party leader and four and a half years Prime Minister. I have not entered the political life of the place rich, I have not become rich, and I am not a member of a political family, which has not done any other work, but just a political one, and it is a messy one, Mr Mitsotakis. You're too little, Mr. Mitsotakis, to talk about elite and many to me! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Mitsotakis, nothing hides in this place. It's all obvious.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u108	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u109	As far as I'm concerned, I have nothing to hide and I never hid. I don't even have the stocks I don't even have the deposits I don't have.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u110	"Spain"?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u111	"Spain"?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u112	Leave these misery, the lies, the make news that you've been using for so many years. Aren't you embarrassed?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u113	What are these things? Mrs. Vulge, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u114	But listen to me now. I'm 11 years of party leader and four and a half years Prime Minister. In this place, then, nothing is hidden from the sun.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u115	Be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u116	It is well known to everyone and I think that for three years I have been a collaborator of Ms Panagopoulos, who has been the wife of the deceased Panagopoulos, a shipowner who has never been involved in what we call a conflict - shared appreciation, I believe - of a man of unspeakable morality. And it is also known that this relationship is a collaborative relationship, as it is also known that the late Panagopoulos was not a poor man, a rich man. In all of you, it was known, in your system, that the 15th time did not mourn you for the Eye at that time. You were in helicopters and were transporting to shipowners' homes that are canalarchs, Mr. Mitsotakis! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is known to everyone and to your system that three days I was hosted on my partner's ship in the 15th century. And it is known because they wrote it the means that they support you, Mr Marinakis, at the end of September 2018. And I didn't deny it because I have nothing to hide. Mr. Mitsotakis, you don't have to be spent. If you asked me, I'd give you my pictures. I'm taking selfie too, I've taken personal pictures too. I may have given you one with a fishfleet, if you like, because I also like fishfly, if you like to have more pleasant pictures than others that you put your parastate to spend in order to intercept the moments of my personal life! And it's a disgrace to you! It's a disgrace to you! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So I, Mr. Mitsotakis, have everything I have in public and have nothing to hide, nor my acquaintances nor my associates nor my friends. I, Mr Mitsotakis, have never been a countryside in the Tinos, with Mr Christoforikos of 'SIEMENS', and I have never had a house in Voltaire in Paris, I have never been an inmate of 'SIEMENS'. It does not finance my family budget unknown offshore, unknown data it finances and the "First Subject"! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And also, Mr Mitsotakis, I have no best man, nor have I ever been on the ship of Mr Marinakis, who has seven newspapers to support you - now he wants a television station - and who is being persecuted for drugs. That's who we are! That's who I am, and that's who you are, if you want it that way! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But what I'm wondering, Mr. Mitsotakis, is if you think you're going to win, pretending to be Stephano Chios of politics. Do you think you will really win by transferring the political debate to that level? Is that what you think? Keep going. You're giving us a present. We're really talking about the many people, and you're talking about yellow press arguments. You've turned New Democracy, a serious party, into a scandalous newspaper. You come to the Step of the Parliament and, in essence, read the articles written in “the NEWs” and “the ORIGINATION”. That's against you. But, Mr Mitsotakis, because in addition to trying to create impressions, there is politics, you said that I talked about reheated food for people's deaths. Mr Mitsotakis, I have talked about re-heated food about the effort, the repeated vulnerability, the repeated drama, which you have been doing since July 2018 and this effort with the kind sponsorship of SCAI and the shipowner who supports SCAI - is that what you are doing - a shipowner who has been in conflict with your family, because he has denounced that your infamous father was asking Mr Alfouzo for EUR 1 million - these? - You're hated. Now he's with you. Hello, hello, hello! However, the rebellious blooming food is a practice of yellowism and misery, through which you believe you can change the agenda to go to the election, without discussing the big ones, without discussing the crucials, without discussing the economy, the social needs, the problems of the many. You have sought the same thing with Mr Polakis. You have become a guardian of morality on the left and you, Mr Mitsotakis, are now having a moral shock with what Paul Paulakis said about a fellow citizen of ours who has dealt with on equal terms. In my opinion, it was wrong to communicate and I said it, but on an equal footing. But did you have a moral shock, which a few months ago your close associate, your close counselor, Nikos Georgiades, who was convicted of embezzlement and paedophilia and accused of being raped by a minor, keep him aside? You didn't get any moral shocks! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You said "let's get this over with with the accesses we have in fairness and I'll call you back". Is that your morality? And you sent your half parliamentary team to court to defend him! And you have young and young, and we have young children! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You chose this level of controversy and at that level of confrontation, if you like, I can also use the phrase of your former Chief: "Hey, I'll take you to the end. I won't let you go!"
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u118	Here, Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor. [[Noise - protests from the Wing of Democratic Independence]] Please don't shout. They are very serious and personal issues and you know that very well!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u119	It's your fault!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u120	Please, Mr. Loverdo. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u121	Mr Tsipras, who has defined for three and a half years since I was elected President of the New Democracy, the level of political controversy, you know that much better than me, when you put your lousy literature, which is directly financed by the intertwined people who enter Maximos, to strike ruthlessly not me, but my wife. Because you did not dare, of course, put them directly with me and you had to go beat the wife, you, who speak of a family and suddenly discovered family sensitivities. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Be careful, because we really all have children and because we all have the family above all, don't take the conversation there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u122	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u123	The next time you talk about a savage family, let's look for a little bit of the ways your family acquired the property that she had, when she acquired it, with whom she did business and when. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Don't shake my finger for my family, okay? Because you'll hear them too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u124	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u125	But I understand your irritation, your intense embarrassment, because the question of privacy, Mr Tsipras and the public life of a political person is indeed a deeply political issue. If you wanted and were so tired, as Mrs Panagopoulos told us, and you had to rest, go to a ship, you had every right to do so. You didn't have the right to hide it. And you hid it, Mr. Tsipras. You hid it because you never said where you went on vacation and hid it for a reason. You hid it because it happened twenty-five days after Matty, and everyone would cry out for you! But very much, with a man's arrogance, Mr. Tsipras, you think that, because you are 'first-time left', everyone owes you. Well, not everyone owes you, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] With the same measures, and with the same standards, we are judged, and you are judged! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I understand it's hard. You have built an entire account of the so-called dividing lines that you have drawn from the old or the new one. Let's not talk about who comes into Maximos and whom Mr. Flamburis meets every three and a few of the well-known businessmen and the so-called intertwined ones, and who do you ruffles in the OPAP! [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Rusfetti to the OPAP, you make, to your friends and friends, at the suggestion of Mr. Flambury! So let's not get into this debate! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So let's get this straight. Mr. Marinakis is neither my best man nor I go to his boat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u126	Whose best man is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u127	He's not my best man. You're in trouble. He's not my best man. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u128	Whose is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u129	It's not mine, though! My best man is not Mr. Marinakis or I enter his ships!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u130	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u131	There is indeed a difference between us, Mr Tsipras. We come from different families and have different stories. I have luck or misfortune - sometimes it's an advantage, sometimes it's a disadvantage - to have lived with politics from a young age.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u132	Six months.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u133	Indeed, ma'am, my family was banished into the junta. Others did work in the junta. Leave that now and this irony! Others did business!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u134	Please, be quiet! Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u135	So I've known the politics from within and demolished the fat of power. You discovered her with some delay. I understand why he made you fascinated. Only, unfortunately, it doesn't fit your left profile anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u136	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u137	One lyric of Ignostakis only in answer: It was not his fault. That's how he was.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u138	The President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Fotini Genomes, has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Wait, please, until it's quiet. Please, everyone who wants to get out, get out. The rest of you sit down and be quiet. Don't be late. Don't make me say names.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u139	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u140	What are you talking about? You're pulling our fingers! Come on, you bitch!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u141	You should be ashamed of yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u142	Please, Mr. Polakis! Please, Mr. Ausgeakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u143	The Minister threatened. We didn't make a peep.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u144	Be quiet. People are watching us too!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u145	Your Minister threatened us. Didn't you see it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u146	No, I didn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u147	Observation to do to your Minister, Mr. Polakis, not to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u148	It makes us the bully.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u149	All right, we're in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u150	He cursed me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u151	Please, turn forward, Mr. Psychoyte! I ask Mrs. Gennamas to begin her speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. In view of the level of this debate at all this time, I would like to say that I am really sorry about this picture of the House, which is more reminiscent of a sidewalk. I am really sorry that the passions of the Greek people continue and will continue as this situation prevails. I have said many times that you look very much like SYRIZA and New Democracy and all that trouble you do just to hide your counterparts. You're the two sides of maintenance. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Rejoice with your members and think about those who are voting for you and listening to this whole level of discussion. We are not going to follow this downhill, this downhill, but stop at last hurting the dignity of politics. It is "butter on the bread" of the far right. What are you doing? You're being criminalised against the place. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] You're sending more and more young people abroad. They turn more and more Greeks back to what's called politics. Hope's gone. Contexts without any contents. Who was this whole conversation all about? None at all. They're turning the back on these emetic dialogues. I have had the luxury of my life learning politics otherwise, with another attitude of life, with another morality, with other contents of politics, action, work and efficiency. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] What we are living through is indeed the decline within this decline, rot and transaction. The Prime Minister came to ask for the confirmation of this incidental majority. Comicotragic. And they'll give it to him, because they have nothing else to do. They can't do anything different. We have no doubt that the chair of power unites them, as we had no doubt in any event that Mr Tsipras would not be expelled. But, of course, by turning his reproach against a vote of confidence for his government, he identifies all his members, his government, his MPs, who will vote for it, with the 'polluterism'. Is that who you are? I really do not believe that you are all expressing this situation. I really believe that there are people who today lean on their heads in the face of this situation in all that we've been living through. I know very well who the chair of power unites, and you're not all, but there's a lot of people who unite this archematama. The achtarma is united on the basis of power and power, even though it is also temporary, in the judgment that is still here and well held. This makes us all wonder what the incentive is to share this situation with SYRIZA, Across Right, Right, Gymologists and all the times that have disappeared. They can't afford to hear truths and reality. They left. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] But, Sunday short celebration, because Maximos and his company will soon see that the Greek people have turned their backs. It is a government on a raid, which is really in harmony with the popular will. They see the exit door. It is a government that is defeated and failed in fact, at the very heart of politics, left to words and right in practice. With its options it has led to the dissolution of the middle class and the poverty of the Greek people and by listening to them we think we are living in another country. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] They condemn the Greek economy with their choices to a slow death. We continue to have this noose in the neck, the commissionership. He's here, he's still here. Nothing has changed. And now they're just playing late. What's the only target? To enjoy the joy of power just a little more, the company of Maximos and complete the deals. That's what we understood today. But, ladies and gentlemen, all these days we have been tormented a reasonable question, which has of course been solved today: 'We will do all of this, but why did Mr Mitsotakis provoke this debate?' Because there really is no Greek and Greek who has not condemned this attack on Kyburopoulos, which was an attack of a fascist perception. We can't characterize it differently. That's it. There is no Greek and Greek woman who has not understood the full coverage given by the Prime Minister to his partner, who is actually his voice. He says what Mr. Tsipras wants to say. Everyone knows it and knows it and those who slowly distance themselves within the SYRIZA and grow this piece every day. So we ask ourselves: why is this motion of censure? Because I'm just saying, he found another chance Mr. Mitsotakis was able to keep the prepared fake bipartisanism alive, because only through it can they - they think - hold on to forces. Because both have nothing essential to propose, nothing different, complete, effective about how the country will finally leave the crisis behind. They try to sustain polarization, in short, because one hand washes the other - that's what they did here - unfortunately also with the coverage of the President of Parliament. We, I said before, do not follow them. Obviously we do not give a vote of confidence to this bankrupt government - it is self-evident - but we will not allow the desperate SYRIZA - which today seemed to what extent despair - has reached neither the blinded passion for power New Democracy to disorient from the real problems of the Greek people the debate in front of the European elections, nor the national elections. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] They should finally make a decision. We will not let the Greek people be locked in their own uncertainties and struggles. You are not owners of the future of the Greek people, neither SYRIZA nor the New Democracy. And make the decision that you will constantly find us in front of you every day and as strong as possible every day and more ready to make the political overthrow that the place needs. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Ladies and gentlemen, for Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Maximus' party the show is over, the curtain falls. But they leave behind great damage and heavy legacy. Mr. Tsipras a few days ago from Chania asked us to act on the criterion of reality. When I heard that, I understood it as his first small self-criticism dose. Let us see, then, what is the raw reality and I address the Prime Minister, who, once again, in his favourite tactics, does not remain inside to listen to the other political leaders. Mr Tsipras, you have been irreversibly exposed to the manipulations and concessions you have made in the Skopje case and, more generally, to national issues. With the Prespecies Agreement you handed over Macedonian identity and Macedonian language and thus kept the root of alutism alive. Mr Erdogan's challenges towards Greece and Cyprus are escalating and growing. We are, without doubt, in the face of a planned development of Turkish aggression and full formalisation of Turkish reform. I really wonder: What has your policy yielded to national issues? What have the exchange of visits, discussions and meetings yielded to date? We still don't know anything, of course, about what you've been talking about. I would like to reply to you: All this policy has yielded nothing positive for national issues in the country. Only negative results. That is why I repeat, do not follow this practice and the operations you had in the previous period with Skopje. Don't take any initiative that binds the country. It's obvious we don't trust you. But that's not all. It is also incomprehensible that this government, before it, which has a lifetime limit of up to four months, should make commitments for any package of solutions which may be proposed or which might be put forward or which would be attempted to impose de facto on our country. You have to be very careful and it seems to me that so many hours you are talking about have not been mentioned in our national issues, and it has to be the first to discuss the political leaders. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] In addition to all this, the most important thing is that if we want to have a success in dealing with international issues, there must finally be a serious national front in the interior. What you didn't do in Skopje and failed. So don't you dare do it now if you have to. I come to the economy he says his dress. God put his hand on it! His policy cost the economy 200 billion. You delivered Greece to a commissioner and in terms of unbearableness. You are also insisting on the famous 'austerity - overtaxation - lowering social costs' and pretending to be left-wing at the same time. But governments are judged by their policy, not by what they say. Do you want me to give you concrete information on the basis of the reality you're saying? Public debt: 335 billion euros. It increased by 5% only in the fourth quarter of 2018. The unpaid taxes of the Greeks have increased by 2 billion euros. Forced confiscation measures for 1.2 million Greek citizens. They're having fun with the SYRIZA government. Development is being carcinogenic. In 2018, it closed despite forecasts of less than 2%. Investments decreased by 12% in 2018. PPC is in danger, as a victim of this ideology, recording damage of EUR 900 million. The small and medium-sized ones? They tell your ministers that their shops have become cemeteries. In front of the defeat range, then, you have recovered a few days before the elections - a terrible coincidence! - the wonderful positive measures. The many hundred and twenty doses before everything, but they're for a few, and they don't give a solution to overcompensated households and highly indebted small businesses. And yesterday, in fact, you launched the election campaign for the national elections with electoral measures. Of course, citizens - and I stress this - need the last euro you return from what you have taken from them. But they don't eat spoon. And if we don't forget, you take them ten and return them one. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] What about the worst? Instead of negotiating with lenders a reduction in the primary surplus targets, you insist on what you have committed. You have no guts, of course, nor credibility as a government to be able to change them. So do you announce future measures and what are you doing? Give as a pledge the lenders the money you've taken by bleeding from Greek citizens. That's what you actually do and come and celebrate over. But without the real change in your commitments - and I repeat and I am not tired of saying it - investment can neither go ahead nor new wealth will be created and new quality jobs will be created. Much more, your announcements cannot be realised. He can't afford to pay any more. All this is based on overtaxation. What over-performance of the economy was there? Are you kidding us? Both you and your ministers told the Zappeion you went to - I will come back to Zappeion - that it was a project that you were working on, he says, a very long time ago. So how did you miss it, and give the Easter gift after Easter? Why didn't you just give it up? Because, in fact, this is a European election allowance. Don't hesitate to say it like that. And now I come to the rest you have announced. Four years now you receive EUR 800 million from pensioners each year by increasing the health contribution to basic and supplementary pensions. And now of these 3.2 billion you took them, you come and you say "take them back now 800 million" and we baptize them and the thirteenth pension, after you have eaten them the twelfth. Who's gonna believe you? Do you think there's a bad Greek who really believes all this? [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] You forgot, of course, that you received 13% of the VAT on the catering, you took him to 24%, and now you're just returning him where you found him to 13%. Should we applaud you for having done this after all these years? Or do we need to applaud the necessary reduction in VAT on energy, but it is so late when so many households cannot pay off their bills at PPC and there are houses that do not have the basics, such as fridge or kitchen? That's not enough in Maximos, where you're firm, but that's the reality that you want us to judge you. Let us not talk about the announcements that concern 2020 and later. Now you all understand what all of this is worth. You spoke about protecting the first residence. But it really takes too much nerve to say that. You abolished the only protection under the PASOK Act and today, in reality, small and medium-sized borrowers are left to their fate. They're in danger of losing their homes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u153	...law of Katseli... (didn't hear)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u154	Leave them with the law of Katseli, because it proves what a person can do, depending on the political area in which he is located. Because that's where he managed to bring that law and pass it, because he was a member of the PASOK government. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] SYRIZA's partner left people in their luck and risk losing their homes. So all this is over. "The fun," said the youth of the Change Movement. You systematically deceived the Greeks and especially the middle class and the weakest. You are talking, Mr Tsipras, about increasing the minimum wage and you are trying to hide that it will be eliminated by the reduction in tax, which you yourself have agreed and signed. And I'll come back to that, then. You are talking about reducing unemployment and hiding that 50% of recruitment is part-time, with a wage of 400 euros. Cut one job at two. About three hundred and fifty thousand young people work on hunger wages. You're talking about social policy. You hide, however, that you are drastically reducing your stability programme by 2 billion cumulatively the resources for health and education. And I wonder, what else are you gonna cut off? The hospitals have broken down. He's in red. Education? You also brought the law of Mr. Gabroglou, who has a look other than the others we were discussing, but it is the same catastrophic. Dissolve high school, abolish technological education, and for the first time you raise a question of questioning how to introduce children into higher education, which is inconsistent. In great anguish and inconvenience, thousands of children, their families and their parents. You are insulting the honesty and insulting the people's intelligence at all times. What should I first remember? There is no doubt that with the support Mr Tsipras gave to Mr Polakis, the messages he gave were particularly negative. Because Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is not the country of the magma free, neither "mom" nor "occupied" extremism. I refuse to accept genuinely identifiable arguments because you want to justify unjustified arguments. You find out because you're a perfect Cretan. So, you're justified killing with savages because you have a spectacular DNA, you're justified parking in a place of people with disabilities because you're a Greek and you're justified hitting because you're a man. No, we deny this concept, because that's everyday fascism. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] This is 'pollution', analgesia and cynicism. And it's exactly what you showed up on the Matty case. It's just the same attitude. It's proven your inability, the mess that prevailed. The result was a hundred and two dead. But next to this tragedy comes the enormous attempt to deceive the Greek people. You put on a show with the Prime Minister doing that you didn't know the dead existed. And the document comes a few months later on television and everyone hears the voice saying: "There are dead, but they don't announce them." That voice will haunt you, it will burden you and it will follow you. You have been distinguished for your conscientious perceptions and practices, in the name of the Left and progress, you have brought the mud back to the political life of the place, you have copyed the first teachings, the New Democracy, with which you have finely colluded the dirty 1989. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] You have used the institutions ruthlessly, you have not hesitated to attempt the own control of justice to hit your political opponents. You have violated the basic principle of democracy, the separation of powers. And you adopted the darkest conspiracy theories, whether sprayed or not, from the Pythia scenarios, to the Georgiou case - shameful of the rule of law in our country. Of course, you had to identify yourself with the caramanlic component that keeps you even today in power. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] This caramanlic component that tried systematically and in every way to dismiss its responsibilities for derailing the Greek economy and tried to convince Greek citizens that it was all the fault of the PASOK. Your salary is worth it! You helped them over the past few years, but now the truth comes to light and it's bitter for SYRIZA and for the New Democracy, because it turns out that the deficit was unthinkable and not constructed. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] So stop talking about 2010 and then let's face up to reality, say what happened in this place, what happened at last, what should not be repeated. This is what the Greek people expect from us. In short, the reality is negative, Mr Tsipras. Your things are impossible to defend in reality and you yourself, and that is why you are now trying to hide behind a variety of personalities. It's obvious you're in panic and despair. The wide-ranging address fell into the void, the bridges collapsed with impact. You don't get anything, and your old standards are falling apart too. Of course, I have to say that for you things are simple. You just disowned them like Podemos. I wonder, in 2015, in Omonia autostop had Mr Iglesias done and been with you at your central event? Did he happen to pass through there? [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Madour's turn is coming, don't worry, because he knows about lemonopards. That's what he's doing with his executives. Nothing can save you anymore. You can't tell anyone's story. I would like to remind you of something: The Greek people voted for you because they wanted you to be honest on the bridge of the ship of the country and not a bridge in every kind of transaction. Don't take that off your mind, Mr. Tsipras. You have come as the party as the so-called many and you are leaving as another party of interlocutory, as the service provider of great economic interests. You're expressing the oldest of the old. We've also lived it today. You came as the first time left and you leave as the "new right". That's what you are today, that's your reality, Mr. Tsipras. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Ladies and gentlemen, the country does not just need to change its guards, it needs a political overthrow and progressive change. Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy are the well-known original old right. They represent the party that brought the country to the edge of the cliff with the catastrophic policy of the period 2004-2009. It is New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis who regard inequalities as a natural phenomenon. They want to cut social state spending further, they never believed in the National Health System, and they make it clear that collective agreements are unnecessary, because there is no need to protect the worker against the employer. Now, on eve of the elections, Mr Mitsotakis remembered that he should not - he says - reduce duty. For three months we have tabled a specific proposal for a law not only to abolish tax reductions, but a package of social measures, it has whispered indifferently, just like Mr Tsipras. He did not support our proposal. Mr Tsipras, of course, insists he will not apply it for his day. He is making fun of us because he knows very well that it will apply from 2020, which will certainly not be the same Prime Minister. I would like to challenge them once again today from the Step of the House: Leave the stewardships of the deadlock and come immediately afterwards to vote together on the proposal for a law tabled by the Change Movement. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] It's okay to admit once that someone else has done a serious job, because this law will have real results and will protect the income of the weakest. And because many and many aspects of unadulterated sensations have been expressed for people with disabilities on the occasion of the fascist perception of Cyburopoulos, I am obliged to put things in place, because here we heard them fight for who has conducted social policy from both of them and who has taken measures for people with disabilities. The social state before PASOK simply did not have our policies copy them or try to take care of them. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] We are therefore the ones who, with the PASOK governments, have implemented the policy of equal integration of disabled people in all areas, in education, in health, in work, in social action, in active participation, in self-determination and in autonomy. We are the ones who objected to the right conservative logic that kept disabled people in the social margin, closed in houses, dungeons not to see them human, stigma for families. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] That was the situation before PASOK. In a philanthropic type alone, limited promotional aid. We are the ones who have legislated and created the integration structures, the 'Help at Home', the national social care system, the access of disabled people to employment with certain rates of recruitment and education, as well as their financial support for the first meeting of their increased needs. Of course, the Minimum Guaranteed Income is not a New Democracy policy, but it has a PASOK seal. Whatever you're doing, you can't take care of our policies. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] And what did New Democracy do then? He strongly opposed the creation of the social state. When we talk about a social state, we mean stable and permanent political infrastructure and measures. It is not an element of a modern social state, the temporary benefits of SYRIZA, which I do not know what differ from the rationale of the charity of the New Democracy. Also, do not shake the finger to increase the percentage of the intakes of disabled persons when you do not keep it. Your own ministers at the Ministry of Health issued an invitation to recruitment and excluded disabled people by effectively abolishing the law that you said you voted on. Well, if we really want the equal integration of people with disabilities, it is time to agree on the need for a modern social state with the necessary positive discrimination that ensures them. I am presenting this relevant passage from the recent proposal for a law brought to Parliament by the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, and I hope at some point that you will leave all this disgusting debate and unleash them, if you take any idea and copy us again, but at least let us have a result. [[At this point the President of the Democratic Association Mr Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the minutes the above proposal for a law, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] And because we have European elections, we have a proposal for the European People's Agenda with Disability 2020-2030 and our candidate MEP, Giannis Vardakastani, is the rapporteur for this issue in the European Economic and Social Committee. You in all of this didn't tell us at all anything about people with disabilities and what you're thinking. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government is leaving. But I firmly believe that the country's steering wheel cannot continue to go right, we do not need'retro' governments and return to yesterday. And that is the message that comes from the elections in the rest of Europe, Spain and Finland. Enough with the right-wing policies leading Europe to the crisis and paving the way for extreme right and nationalism. And in order to reach agreement with both so-called gladiators, every vote in the New Democracy is a vote in the European elections, it is a vote in the policies of lasting austerity, the extreme maintenance and the dissolution of the social state simply and clearly. This means voting in the New Democracy in the European elections. But enough, too, with populism, with those who in the words proclaim the revolution and in practice become deadlocked by the mighty and finally confronting the far right in their place, others do in, others say outside. Every vote, then, on Mr Tsipras and SYRIZA, is a vote on Mr Que and Mrs Tomic. Obviously, you don't know them and how to know them? Because the vote on Mr Tsipras is nothing but a vote on the chaotic European left, on those who have been against the struggles of the Greek people all these years in the crisis. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] It's not a vote for the Socialists. Mr Tsipras hides this, he does not want to understand the Greek people, but we will say this every day and very loudly throughout Greece, because it must finally be understood what is being voted on in the European elections by voting SYRIZA. The vote on the Change Movement is a message of change, a message of change in Europe, but also in Greece, and it is a force in the European Socialist Party with Franz Timmermanns in front of finally starting the change that we want in Europe. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] A vote in the SYRIZA and New Democracy in the European elections is a lost vote on the changes we want for a progressive Europe. They know this very well and their anxiety is how they manage to hide it, not to have a debate on the European elections, not to understand what is happening. They say a referendum one minute, debate shouting at each other, cohort fights give Parliament, what they can do so that the Greek people do not understand what it means to vote for SYRIZA and New Democracy in the European elections, but every day that it gets more noticeable! [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] And the question that comes to everyone's lips that watches all this cheap conflict is this. Is there any of the two who really care about Greece, who really cares about what's going on in every household, in every business, in every family? Do you think there are really many Greeks who take the view that the challenge of the elections is Tsipras or Mitsotakis? No, I answer you unequivocally. Now it's time to wake up. Now everyone has realised that what we need is to see how we really leave the crisis behind. That's what they're asking for. It's time for something completely different. It is time for the "Project Greece", what the Change Movement has put forward, the truly integrated programme for development and social justice. It is time to leave polarization and division behind, we paid it very expensively. Is there anyone in the place who doesn't understand it? All the other countries in crisis left the problems behind. Why? Because that is where the interests of their country are, and even here today - we have lived before - it is an anguish for everyone's personal ambition. Who's going to be a prime minister is their big deal, you don't understand? One to stay and another to come, but "go away, come on, you" doesn't respond to the problems of the Greek people. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] We have paid very much for all these years the irresponsible attitude of both the parties and their leaders and come today after all this and we have repetitioned the Zappies. As if we didn't pay the Zappeia, we'd like to relive it now. Nothing understood this whole course. After ten years they come and suggest that we follow the same route, on the same road, to continue in the deadlock, to hit the wall with a fort. We have no more years to lose and it is not enough for us to leave Mr. Tsipras's misery and to experience the leap in Mr. Mitsotakis's void. Here in Greece we need a new concept, a new concept of genuinely progressive governance in the country. I spoke before about our plan, the 'Greece' project. What the country needs is a Greek property proposal. Can we not put aside our differences and finally sign a plan for the next four years that will make the Greeks feel safe and the children return to their homes? [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] We don't have the knowledge, we don't have the people, we don't have the power, we don't have the ability, or we just keep people from wanting to look only at themselves and not those who really suffer? We won't get tired of lifting the flag of understanding. We keep this thread and we really come in a united mood despite what we live every day and live in this Chamber today, because we believe that this is the only solution to the place. So in the European elections that come the country must live the first Resurrection and we appeal to the progressive citizens, and we ask for the strength to be able to make the big political overthrow in the following national elections. The country does not just need a change of government, it needs a change of the page, a change of policy, a change of perspective in another Europe, a Europe of democracy, solidarity, employment, a Europe of prosperity for the many and not for the few, a Europe that is struggling with the Socialist Party, together with the Change Movement and the very strong Euro-leaf that we have created. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] We are determined to guarantee it. And we want and we know and we can, we've done it again and I believe deeply that the Greeks united we can move Greece forward. So together, again, high. These are the three words, our message to the Greek people. Yes, we can with the Change Movement. So the joke's cut.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u155	Thank you. I call on the President of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group to step up, Mr Michaloliaco. Mr. Michalop, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the President of SYRIZA, the President of the New Democracy and the Gennamata from the Change Movement. Mr. Tsipras did not reply to what Mr. Mitsotakis said about him and Mr. Mitsotakis did not reply to what Mr. Tsipras said about him. We, as Golden Dawn, have to say this: we believe them both in everything! It was all true! And if it were all true, the best they'd have to do would be go home. But things were not over there, because then Mrs. Gennimata came and talked about the parties that had afflicted the Greek people, representing the party that ruled over most of the last decades, PASOK. Since the issue of fat in the whole session has come, let us remember the heels of the late Andreas Papandreou - addressed to Mrs Gennamas - the best of 1989, of Socrates Kokalis, whose son today is a candidate MEP with SYRIZA, the best of Potamianos in 1995. All of SYRIZA is evolving into a new PASOK. And remember the older ones when the whole story broke out, the villa of Andreas Papandreou, which was brought out by the apologised, the late Vangelis Giannopoulou said "for an old house we will not dismantle the party." And the Syrians now come out and say "for an older party we will not break up the party". All PASOK! Genuine PASOK follow-up. And we had an answer on behalf of SYRIZA - not officially by Mr. Tsipras, he didn't dare to tell the House, he said so on television channels - for the helicopter of a big businessman who went to Chania from Argolida, received Mr. Mitsotakis, took him to Argolida where he had lunch and returned to Chania, as a sample that on the other hand there is a connection. It is really a pity for political life. However, it is at least enthusiastic and cynical that Fofi Gennamata, the President of PASOK, the most corrupt party that passed through Greek political life and who even today owes 200 million euros to banks. He regrets - he says - the PASOK and denounced both SYRIZA and the New Democracy that they are trying to hide their counterparts. Yes, it is! But both look like a third. This opened the way. And this third is no more than PASOK, which came with one word here, from what I have already heard from Mrs Gennamas, to tell us that she is innocent of everything. But well, the previous government was a government of New Democracy? Wasn't it a government of New Democracy and PASOK, was it not Samara's coup d'état with Venizelos? So where and where is he not responsible for all these things? She also said that Mrs Gennamas "you will always find us in front of you". Of course they'll find them in front. It's a coup d'état they want. They don't hide it. The ambitions, however, with some polls made by pimps on some channels and on some fliers, have grown up. And so he said, "Don't you hear them? They are fighting about who will become Prime Minister of both." And Mrs. Gennimatas, with her spokesperson, Mr. Mallie, said the next woman would be a Prime Minister. What the PASOK plan is is clear, it's obvious! Not to self-reliance the new government, go like a porn - because it has evolved into a 45% party that it was - and get the prime minister. Everything can happen in this place. He talked about the Macedonian. We were here in this Chamber when we asked the PASOK and the New Democracy to resign and to resign together - I repeat - a hundred ten Members of Parliament, to stay the House with a hundred and ninety Members and to be dismantled, because Article 51 of the Constitution says that the House with fewer than 200 Members cannot function and has denied it. It also does not commit to something simple, which it could say in a proposal. To say "we, if we need to be colluded with another party in a coalition, then we will demand that the Embassy Agreement be denounced". He didn't say any of that. All she said is that she charged the country with the status of the old parties, where in her imagination there is no PASOK. There was no PASOK, guys. The PASOK hasn't ruled for twenty years. Mrs. Gennamas doesn't know about the PASOK. He's never heard of either Simitis or Andreas Papandreou. It says the economy has been charged with 200 billion, and all this has been done for the years 2004-2009. I don't want to defend the Karamanlis government. I've been anti-Caramanic since 1974. I'm a nationalist conscious, who fought caramanism all along. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I don't want to defend caramanism. But did we forget in 2004? Have we forgotten about the Shirt? Have we forgotten about the endless money that was being given for 2004? And who can talk? Talk to the journalists, who each received 3,000 and 4,000 euros of wages? No, of course not. But now, you see, we live in SYRIZA's time. For the record, I will testify for the Minutes two photos, not well printed, by our office's Printer in the House. Significantly, within the democracy we live, there has been a change in the technological equipment of the Golden Dawn since 2012, seven years! Nice democracy! In the first photo, then, is Mr. Paulakis, whom the debate was about to take in Nicaragua, where the knites went and picked up coffee, with a kalashnikov. The second photo, too, reminds Latin America. It's Alexis Tsipras with a havana cigar in a henhouse. This is how the revolution is progressing. It starts, supposedly, with reversal dreams and ends up in Havana cigars! [[At this point the Secretary-General of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michaloliakos presents for the minutes the above mentioned photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] The motion of censure was not made and the whole process became a vote of confidence. SYRIZA should indeed have a great political courage, since in his ranks there are MPs who have nothing to do with SYRIZA. I should first like to refer to a newly-built Minister, Mr Theoharopoulos. It was, you know, once a party that was broken up, DIMAR and they didn't know what to do with the seal and Theocharopoulos took it. By taking this seal he became a PASOK MEP. Then he fought with PASOK, and with this seal he became Minister. Rejoice him! Such a government you are, with such great popular acceptance! After Mr. Theocharopoulos is Mr. Danellis from Potami, Ms. Megalokonomou - who loves Alexis, there is no way she can do anything - from the Centroon Association, Mr. Quik and Ms. Koudoura from the Independent Greeks - Quik was kneeling on Greek flags, now is with SYRIZA, no problem - and Ms. Papacosta from the blue generation and the New Democracy in SYRIZA. All six. A vote of confidence by all of them, by a government, literally, raven. For its part, the New Democracy also has its own. He's from the river - he really took the river from them! - Mr Fotila, Mrs Marcos, Mr Theocharis and Mr Psarianos, who declares independently to the elections. He says he will be dealing with the New Democracy, but he saves his political honor if he remains three or four months independent. That's the spirit of democracy. So he's got MPs from the river. Mr. Lazarides from the Independent Greeks and Mr. Katsiantonis from the Central Association. What should people do? They've got to make it easy! And giving opportunity - a nice company we are all in here, most people are gone, those who are here and honor me, thank them warmly - let us remember a perfectly timely poem of Constantine Cavafi entitled "Let them take care of." “I became almost uncomfortable and pineapple. This fateful city, Antioch, has eaten all my money. This fate with its costly life.’ He tells - so that I don't tire you - how he spent all his money and wonders, since he's in Alexandria and he's left unharmed, what to do. "So I believe that I am fully suited to serve this country, my dear country, Syria. In whatever business they put me in, I'll try to be beneficial in the country. That's my intention. If they're blocking me with their systems again, we're aware of them. What can we say now? If they stop me, what's my fault? I'll go to Zavina first. And if this baby doesn't appreciate me, I'm going to go to his rival Ground. And if that idiot and he don't hire me, I go sideways to the Hurricane. I'm going to be wanted by one of the three. And it's my conscience quiet for the undeclared election. They shall all harm Syria.". This applies to the three parties that claim power, SYRIZA, PASOK and New Democracy. All three of them are harming Greece! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Because it is not often - conspicuously here in this Chamber, there is a reference, inappropriate and unconscious, to the trial of the Golden Dawn - because there must not be any intervention in a court case - I will tell you that there has recently been a trial to a second degree, where the third Court of Athens has acquitted me of being able to provoke a stimulus for a felony or a misdemeanor. That is why an Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay appealed and tried this case in Arion Igo and was irrevocably entitled by a decision of the Ice Bay, that my speeches did not cause stimulation to offences, as you say. And recently there was the trial for a brutal murder of a Pakistani, Lukeman, who had wrongly charged the Golden Dawn. And the decision came out. And the President of the Mixed Judicial Court stated - and his statement was recorded in the minutes - that the court does not connect the disputed act to the Golden Dawn. And within all this, due to the fact that we have an election period, we have articles such as the journalist of the newspaper "BIMA" Georgios Papachristos "Farisaisism and Hypocrisy", a hard "Semitism", which had eight compensations under the Simitis regime and who now serves the New Democracy through "BIMA" and "NEA". And it is shameful for the New Democracy to serve the Lambraki complex. Once in years past, when EPE ruled, whoever took the "News" from the stand, filed him and took him to prisoner. Today's your newspaper! Because the New Democracy is often using a lousy propaganda trick and says that we are in cooperation with SYRIZA to delay our trial - which is unfair because we politically fight SYRIZA and SYRIZA are fighting us in a terrible and undemocratic way, with bans, imprisonment, exclusion - I have here the report of a New Democracy newspaper on the trials that are being delayed. Listen. The ‘SIEMENS’ case has been investigated since 2006. It started in 2003. And we have 2019 and there is no decision yet. The intercept case has been since 2005 and the trial will begin on May 14, 2019. On the bond case, there was a final acquittal crisis in 2018. In the Baptist case, there was an acquittal crisis after ten years. There are several very important trials, where the decision was made after twenty years, after eighteen or sixteen years. For us, a finger says it is being delayed. They are disgusting propaganda, which the President of the New Democracy himself presented on a television show saying that the greatest sponsor of the Acro-right is Mr. Tsipras. Are you serious, Mr. Mitsotakis? Tsipras is our sponsor? Haven't you realised that the biggest sponsor of Golden Dawn is you and your policy? You don't understand that with Courides, the addictionist you took and with what he says, you bring people to Golden Dawn? You told this same TV interview that the Golden Dawn trial is being delayed. Why don't you say a word about the 'SIEMENS' trial? And if you were here, I could say other things, but the Prime Minister himself told you and you did not respond. He told you about the house with Christmas. Of course Mr Tsipras did not talk about the contractors on 21 April. You did your toys, but you practically sucked each other! For the record, then, in 2008, 11 years ago Theodoros Tsukatos admitted that he took 1 million marks for the PASOK fund in 1999. And Mrs. Gennamata told us that PASOK has no responsibility. Where was Tsukatos? Was it Golden Dawn? Wasn't the "military" of PASOK? Wasn't Simitis' close associate? So the sponsor of the Golden Dawn is Tsipras, according to Mr. Mitsotakis. He should be here, having respect for the hundreds of thousands of Golden Dawn votes he wants to plunder, but they don't come back! They separate us from bars and cuffs. Chrysayites don't go back to New Democracy! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Tell us about Catherine now. In a few days' time we have the anniversary of the Pontius genocide, which has officially refused. It says that Greeks are an artificial nation like Makedonski and that we are Ottoman children. No, the Greeks are not Ottoman children! And it is shameful that you have him in the New Democracy candidate MEP. And the greatest shame is your silence. Not even a New Democracy MEP came out to report it. The silence of lambs, literally! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Mr. Mitsotakis said in the same interview that the Golden Dawn attempted to change the electoral law. That's a great lie! It was July 2016 when I and my rivals left the Chamber and did not vote, making this statement: "Ten days of mud, misinformation and endless oriental bazaars in which the Golden Dawn does not participate. New Democracy and SYRIZA have the same policy. If the Golden Dawn voted, you'd say we're SYRIZA's tail. If we did not vote, you would say that we are a line of the New Democracy. Golden Dawn doesn't turn into nobody's tail. Between New Democracy and SYRIZA, we have nothing to choose, because you are following the same policy of the ethnic-occupied monuments. We fight, we fight politically for Greece and not for banks and loan sharks that you have committed the country." Well, that's a great lie. And since we are indeed in an election period and in a few days' time the Greek people will be expressed, the PASOK believes it will make the surprise. What's the surprise? To pass a party that first entered the House in 2012 with 7%. It will be a political earthquake a party that took 48% and 45% to cross Golden Dawn. Oh, he won't pass it, no matter how pushy the whole thing in that direction. The famous Nikos Municipality, known from his book "The misfortune of being Greek". His article was entitled "Time for Catherines" where he said: I want him because he is first European and then Greek. We, no, want Members of the European Parliament who, above all, put Greece alone! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] And because he said what we are voting on if one votes Golden Dawn and what votes if one votes PASOK and mentions a Tyderman - nor do I remember his name, some other socialists who are all half-Hellenic and in the difficult years did not support us at all - we are with the Europe of the homelands, the Europe of nationalists from Madrid to Paris and Berlin and to Rome, Budapest and Vienna. In Athens, too, the banners of Greek nationalists will be won for a Europe of nationalists against loan sharks and bankers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u157	We call on Mr. Kammenos, President of the Independent Greeks, to come to Stepma. You have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u158	Jesus Christ, Eve. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the motion of censure tabled by the Qualified Opposition with the presence of a Member and the motion of confidence of the government, which is now represented in this Chamber in which the presence of six Members is honored and a Minister. This is, in fact, the image of today's political scene, a truly sad picture on a day that is particularly important for the country. If one reads today the Report of the Hellenic Air Force by 14 noon, one will find that thirty Turkish F-16 and thirty Greek F-16 entered the Greek airspace from morning onwards, to prevent their violations and violations. There were four aerial battles west of Chios, twelve Turkish aircraft were armed, eighteen infringements, twenty-seven violations of national airspace. In some Readiness on Skyros, Lemnos, Crete, in all the airports of the Air Force pilots ready to take off and fly to defend the national airspace see the debate in the House. Fillets of our Navy fleet are in the Aegean Sea and the south-eastern Mediterranean, facing an unprecedented challenge on the part of Turkey, at a time when Greece and Cyprus have had to live since 1974, since the invasion and occupation, since Sismik's time, since the Imian era. The members of the Armed Forces who were expected today to be the unity of the nation would be Parliament's parties, the Government, the Civicism, which took the initiative, the parties that participated with their representatives in the Greek Parliament unanimously to support our national positions, to circumvent our differences and to do what our foreign allies, allies, friends and also outside the alliances that we are involved, namely to support international law, the flagrant violation of international law, the European Law, the Law of the Sea on the side of Turkey, which is not threatening by a violation of the sea space, but threatens two drills, in particular, within the Cypriot GEZ, that is to say, national territory. That's why I talked about 1974. Instead, we saw in this House a personal confrontation with the Chief of Officerial Response with the Prime Minister, a conquest. But no one said to Mr Mitsotakis that they do not talk about lowering when they are on the bridge of 'NOOR 1'. Nobody said that when personal controversy starts, we leave the national area. And I must remind this Chamber of certain lyrics of our national poet included in the National Anthem, of those lyrics that are not repeated, verse 144 and 145: "The discord that bears a sceptre is smiling, take it, and you too. Do not say in their thinking the foreign nations really: if they hate each other, they must not be free." That is what the national poet says, and that should be considered today, by postponing this debate and by taking the initiative to hold a special meeting in the Greek Parliament and finally to support the national positions which, for the first time, have been supported by the State Department, Russia, the European Union, Israel, Egypt, all of the Mediterranean countries. So what did we get out of here? An image of discord, a picture of personal differences. I listened very carefully to both the Prime Minister and the Chief of Staff Response and Mrs Gennimata and the other political leaders. The Prime Minister said forty-six times the word "we", meaning, of course, SYRIZA, for what the Greek people and this government have actually achieved in these four years of governance, giving the Greek people the opportunity to get out of the memorials, enabling pensioners not to see their pensions falling, to take the thirteenth wage, the thirteenth pension, to breathe with VAT of workers and consumers, the Greek people to begin, after these years of crisis, to see a white day. Mr Tsipras, you forgot very quickly that to say "we" there was a partner in the government. You wouldn't be a Prime Minister if it weren't for the Independent Greeks to give you a vote of confidence and start the course together in 2015. The results of this policy are, of course, due to the government, which we formed together, by democratic procedures and by the mandate of the Greek people that lasted as long as we participated in the government, from which we left for only one reason, for breaking our agreement with the Treaty of Ambassadors, an agreement which we felt was treacherous and could not follow. But this does not mean that the participation of the Independent Greeks in sensitive ministries, the support of the Parliamentary Group in difficult times has not substantiated the right to "we". And when you say about these successes of the Greek people and of that government, remember that there was a party that you broke up. Because today, as you said, the vote of confidence in the government is at stake and you ask the Greek Parliament to vote on it. What government are we talking about? We are talking about a government that was legally formed, has acted legally to the Ambassadors' Agreement, but then by a national government, it has turned into a government of apostasy, a government to which ministerial chairs have been offered against parliamentary seats. Is this government legalized? I'm sure you don't feel well either. Unfortunately, however, we see that, after the decision to acquire members with ministerial positions, we have the policy of converting security escorts into political trophies so that the majority can be secured. That's the truth. What should be done? Two things should be done. Prime Minister, you should ask for the support of all the parties in this House at these difficult times for the nation, because there will be very difficult times for the nation, because Turkey is currently threatening and Erdogan is playing his papers with the repeated illegal elections in Istanbul and he will export the problem. The problem will not only be exported to Cyprus. I fear very much that we should be prepared to face challenges, as are the officials of the Armed Forces, both in Evros and in the islands. So you should ask for the political world's understanding, not to say that you should ask for the creation of a government of national unity by the elections, or that you should proceed to elections and that the Greek people should decide who wants to govern him. You cannot follow Mr Mitsotakis who has nothing else to say but to create personal confrontation with'slash', with groups based on the interests which you know and which operate at the expense of democracy itself, in a opposition which is not very different from the views of the government itself. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the 'we' said by Mr. Tsipras, I would like to say that the Independent Greeks are proud to have participated in this government and we are proud of the results we have brought to the Greek people. But in 'we' we no longer participate, because we fully disagree and have a different people's mandate for the national 'Press' issue. Here we go to the political situation that exists today. What is the political situation? The political situation is becoming obediently transformed. I referred earlier to those who exchanged their position with a ministerial chair but were not left alone. I ask: will we go to European elections with candidate SYRIZA MEP the daughter of the former - decent - General Kounduras, representative of the royal Greeks, of the ruling democracy, who took part in the elections since 1974? The left-wing voters will be represented in the European Parliament by Mrs Kundura? Will we wait for a parliamentary group to be formed after Mrs Koundoura is elected and hand over her seat? To date, Minister, remains a Member of Parliament, does not give up the seat, as other colleagues from other parties did, and he comes to become a candidate for MEPs, making the government and obliging the Prime Minister to legislate differently than was the case so far. Will the government continue to rely on a Member who has never been elected, but has emerged from the resignation of a Member, Mr. Quick, who, when we formed the government, was one of those who said that the Independent Greeks should never cooperate with the Left? You put wreaths in Vichy and Grammos and today he goes to the monument of Belogonne. Tomorrow we'll see him in Lenin's monument depositing a wreath with the fist tightened. I do not characterize people with their beliefs and for me all opinions are respected, but the obsessional transformations for a ministerial chair with an exchange of the parliamentary seat do not deem any honor to anyone. In a list which includes within Mr. Kokalis, not because he is a grandson of Peter Kokalis, but because this man belongs to a family that has two companies, at least, which depend on the public, the ‘INTRACOM - INTRAKAT’ that takes public works and the ‘INTRACOM DEFENSE’ that takes works at the Ministry of National Defence and a government which has been a minister of the Theocharopoulos who, four years here, was the largest hybrid of the Government and the Prime Minister himself? Is that a constitutional legality? Do you want this government to give a vote of confidence? Do you want this government to trust the Greek people? No, Prime Minister. You cannot continue to rule under these conditions. Go to elections, ask a government of national unity to deal with the situation and let the Greek people decide. The Greek people decide wisely and we saw it together in September 2015, when we changed our policy and proposed the rescue plan of the Greek people, which the New Democracy voted at the time, and the Greek people approved and formed a government with wisdom, a government with different spaces with which, however, we managed to co-exist and agree to the national issue of 'Presses', which you too are now paying by seeing the behaviour of citizens in northern Greece, but seeing that the other country not only respects the agreement that it signed, but also an agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, an invalid and anti-constitutional agreement, an agreement which Mr Tsipras has not even received the percentage in the referendum demanding within its terms, an agreement that has not been signed by the President of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, but also an agreement, ladies and gentlemen, which Mr Tsipras has received the courage of signing and that the New Democracy has been fully served for its own benefit. It speaks of "North Macedonia", erga omnes, composite name. "North Macedonia" was the idea of the New Democracy Minister of Foreign Affairs, unlike Kostas Karamanlis, then Prime Minister, who refused NATO's meeting to go down to dinner and to grant the term "Macedonia". This is the truth about the national issue and we should, ladies and gentlemen, see and see who the New Democracy is. I am a member of the national Parliament twenty-seven years, elected several times with the New Democracy, but with the New Democracy of Costas Karamanlis, Constantine Mitsotakis and Evangelos Averov. What does New Democracy have to do with Mr Voridis and Mr Georgiadis, the 'acres' that Kostas Karamanlis said does not cooperate? What is New Democracy doing with the former leader of the ENP youth, the one who, as Minister, took a vote of confidence from PASOK, from Mr Venizelos, from the conflict of Samara - Venizelos? What does the New Democracy have to do with Mr Kyridis, who is blatant, public, provocative, candidate MEP of the New Democracy, ignores the genocide of Pontian Hellenism? What does the New Democracy have to do with Tatsopoulos and Psariano, who calls for the restoration of the symbols from the schools and the abolition of religious ones? This New Democracy is a New Democracy - Formation, which has lost and popular support, bets only on a name - label and essentially what it sounds all over Greece is that "does not make the child, but what should we do?". That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen, and in this truth the picture of the House today is illustrated. This is the first time that Qualified Opposition has put forward a motion of censure and only the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Tsiaras, is present - to his honor - there is no one in here. I do not know if the cameras show Parliament, but if they show the headquarters of the Officerial Representation they will see that there is only the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group. It's the party that wants to overthrow the government. They say "let's send Tsipras home", without saying what they're going to do. But, of course, they do not believe it either, because nobody can come out and argue that the measures which the Greek people have managed to achieve with this government and this programme should be abolished. The reality, ladies and gentlemen, is that we are heading for elections to the European Parliament. No one at all said anything about Europe, about which Europe we want, about which Europe we dream of. I have heard Mr Mitsotakis say in Parliament about Greece that Constantine Karamanlis put into the EEC. Does the EEC of Constantine Karamanlis have anything to do with the Europe of the great visionaries, Ziscar d'Estain, Constantine Karamanlis, Antenauer and today's Europe? The Europe in which Constantine Karamanlis put Greece, the EEC was then the EEC of nations - states - was the Europe of equals, it was the Europe in which there was no North and South, East and West. It was the European Economic Community where small Greece had exactly the same value as big Germany or big France. Today the Europe in which we live is the Europe of an illegal body, the Eurogroup, an uninstitutional body, which decides in the absence of any constitution, but also the European decisions themselves. It is the Europe that comes to the orders of the German Minister for Finance. It is Mr Webber's Europe, the greatest single man ever to have, who dared to make a public statement yesterday, saying that we cannot take these measures, fighting the Greek Government and the Greek people who were sacrificed to be able to have the surplus. Of course, Mr Webber represents the European People's Party. On the other hand, we have the European Socialists. The European Socialists go along with the European People's Party in most European Union countries. They're matched with them. It is the party representing the Change Movement, Potami, and now a large part of SYRIZA is trying to become a member of the Socialist Party, namely Mr Weber's partner, the Europe's own leaders who believe in the abolition of nations - states, who follow the plan that the globalists want, the same as the Clinton Foundation, says Soros, the same thing that everyone who wants through banking integration, to abolish the nations, the states, to take flags, to abolish religions, to level out the values, traditions and customs of each people. So for this Europe today where the European elections come within the next few days, no one has spoken at all. It is precisely because the People's Party and the Socialist Party are together. The Left is over, and that's the truth. Mr. Tsipras wants to turn SYRIZA into the new PASOK. I hope he doesn't. I may have disagreed with the left wing of SYRIZA in too much and crashed, but at least they defended their ideas, opinions and principles with honesty, with clarity. It has nothing to do with SYRIZA becoming this crime that took place in Antonis Samaras with New Democracy. Because the New Democracy has legalised Tsukatos, Papantoniou, Tsochazopoulou and all those whom the Greek people have expelled from the political life of the country, the greatest wound that has ever passed by Greece, the Sboocuses and all those who have eaten the flesh of our country. And I'm not talking about the PASOK of Andreas Papandreou. Because Andreas Papandreou will recall that in his speech at the press conference, sick, after the Cannes meeting, he spoke about the Brussels director, which alters the European situation itself. He then spoke, in his historic interview, about Europe that is turning into a Europe of interests, that Europe that we are now living in. So we Greeks in this Europe will strive to overthrow the logic of globalisation and the levelling-up of nations - states. We will fight to preserve traditions and values. We will fight for the Europe of Kostas Karamanlis, Konstantinos Karamanlis and Andreas Papandreou and not for the Europe of today's alcoholic leaders who share the VAT of peoples on subsidies - gifts. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is still unscathed, even now that we are calling for its support with a single frontier. The borders of Greece and Cyprus, as the President of the Republic often says, are a European border. However, all Europe must do, for which no one is talking anymore in this Parliament in the face of the European elections, is to support its European defence. If it takes a decision tomorrow, as it has done, Turkey will send two drills to do illegal drilling, i.e. an insult of national territory, to the Cypriot EEZ, Europe will have to understand and react, because there will be illegal drilling in the European EEZ. We will have an illegal invasion of the European EEZ. But who would react? We saw Mrs Mogerini's statement. Will Germany respond, which has downloaded 80% of its aircraft so that it does not spend and is based on the defense of Greece that bleeds? What Europe are we talking about? For a Europe that deals with Turkey and which has actually done all the dirty work on the Prespecies Agreement to serve European companies through Skopje and to pass through the pipelines? What Europe are we going to talk about? The Europe that indifferently whistles and according to its July 2015 plan, before we asked for the United States' intervention, wanted with the Soible Plan and with Varoufakis to encapsulate Alexis Tsipras and me and go to a country's conversion plan in a human warehouse, with 80 billion gifts and exit from the European Union? And this country was saved because there was a government formed with force. Europe must therefore change. We will also fight for the European elections in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close my speech by saying that the situation in which the country is currently in place is critical for national issues too, as I have explained, where the alliances we have built with the United States, but also with Israel and Egypt and with the Mediterranean countries, must be strengthened. [[At this point the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Marios GEORGIADIS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] I say this because I would also like to remind my dear friends and until yesterday's co-pilots at SYRIZA that that's where we put not just a little but a big stone. Because you know very well what happened when we talked about cooperation with Israel. Some were in "Mavi Marmara" and some were talking about Hamas, when we said that it should be a major ally to be Israel. And, of course, this was served by our Prime Minister and showed us the door in the United States. And the Obama administration, like the Trump administration, chose Greece as their main ally. This is what the Independent Greeks have contributed and you should take this offer into account, as well as why we today have to vote 'no' in the vote of confidence. To take into account that we participated in the effort to get the country out of the memorials and to give the citizens of those who are entitled, against a hard alliance between Mr. Samaras and Mr. Venizelos, the PASOK with the New Democracy. Understand what we paid for by taking governmental deterioration and when you say "we", sometimes say "we, with the support of the Independent Greeks", who brought these alliances closer together and who left because they disagreed on a subject that we agreed from the outset that we did not agree. We will remain faithful to our principles and values at the end, and finally it is the Greek people who will choose who wants to be in the House. However, it must be borne in mind that some who ask for their vote in the House and in the European Parliament today do not even make the honours of the Greek people sitting on the table and following the debate they have provoked.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Before Mrs. Pappiga comes to Stepma, I just need to let you know about the programming. Five will be the speakers, after Mrs Papagas' speech, on the list of speakers: Mrs Kavvadia, Mr Stagiras, Mrs Theleritis, Mr Carras and Mr Katsis will be the speakers, to close the sitting tonight and at 10.00 in the morning we will continue with the list of speakers. Come on, Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u160	The appalling, emphatic, disgusting controversy between the New Democracy and SYRIZA led by Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis is inevitable, is not prevented, not only because we are in an election period, and it is not just for votes. It is, of course, adapted to the need to get votes. But this type of confrontation suits both parties. Because in this way they leave intact and acquitted the rotten exploitation system, the capitalist, the urban political system, the urban Parliamentary Republic, and show the people that the existing small, big and eerie problems are due to dishonestness, lack of morality or lack of competence and experience of alpha or beta political executive. Our 'according' to the government's proposal to approve its policy has nothing to do with the other 'against' which will fall on Friday evening by roll-call vote. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We are voting against the government precisely because it has succeeded in its work. What has been achieved with the work of four and a half years now, but with the help of opposition parties, who have voted too many of the government's bills, usually those that do not make headlines in the newspapers? What did it work? To help get out of the crisis - anyway, the crisis is cyclical, it lasts for years, it does not last forever - in favour of capitalist profitability, particularly those of the business groups that have come out of the crisis that have been strengthened and won more and at the expense of the workers, not by temporary measures, but by measures which it has voted until 2060 and 2100. Of course, it is absolutely certain that the people's movement, despite the retreat which it has noted and despite the stools that it usually accompanys, is not going to wait to overturn them in 2060 or much more in 2100. The government of SYRIZA has succeeded in doing all the work it needs and even spends it these days with the benefits packages, with the countermeasures, etc. It succeeded in shaping that capitalist return on capitalist profitability again at the expense of the workers. Whether we have a crisis or have a recovery, the major victims are the workers. We are not going to make a flag of our confrontation with the Government and with the New Democracy, or Petsite, or pedophiles, or what shipowners' family lying next to one or the other leadership is bad. That's a bit of a hint. That's not the point. We don't need to use these. We take as the basis what the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has done and what the governments have, of course, already done before the crisis and during the crisis. You're gonna tell me, well, why are you leveling things up? Are New Democracy and SYRIZA completely identical parties? No, not at all. It's not the same. They have some differences, which I would say are lifesaving and supportive of the system. The urban political system, the system of workers' exploitation, the political instruments and the support of all laws in favour of capitalists, cannot today serve the needs of the system with one party. They served for many years with two parties, New Democracy and the PASOK, and this was in all the countries of Europe and around the world. Today they need much more parties. In this sense, yes, they have differences. I'll make a difference. The New Democracy, for example, has had carrot breaks and, in order to subvert, to break, to smash the popular movement - it did not succeed - and to incorporate the people into politics not only in support of the right-wing party, but also in support of the urban political system of capitalism. And he did so with the promotion of obsolete and capitalism of reactional ideas and, of course, with the anti-communism of the can and when in a disguised way. Indeed, SYRIZA doesn't have the same tactic. SYRIZA maintains, doing an operation for the corruption of left consciences. The New Democracy through reactionary ideas and SYRIZA with a left-wing panoramic - with introductory or non-important inputs, does not matter - it sucks, buys, terrorizes, and passes radical consciences. Yeah, it's a difference. Mr. Mitsotakis will never go to the grave of Belogonne or to the statue. He thinks he's a traitor, Agent. SYRIZA will go, honors the dead particularly communists. It is the smuggling it does, smuggling the people's heroic class struggles, smuggling the role of the Communist Party of Greece. It's the other way. It leads to the same result: preservation, passivity, fatalism. I would like to say another example, which uses as a main argument against SYRIZA and New Democracy and PASOK, and is not right about that. They charge, for example, for the first half of the year, Genoris - August 2015, that SYRIZA, due to his communist idealism led to the well-known conflict with the European Union, the seventeen hours of collective negotiation of the Prime Minister, which eventually brought the Greek people together with so many billions of euros. He couldn't help but, Mr. Stakoura, SYRIZA. What's SYRIZA? May I say it's a political space? Because he doesn't always show up with SYRIZA and he has many traditions. It's the historical conspiracy on the lines of the movement. She couldn't help it. He absolutely had to direct an insurgent in the context of the European Union - you are falling out here - not from fraud, not from a lack of experience, not even to take a test to how far the conflict and conflict on the borders of the European Union can take place, that is to say, to test the ability of the European Union, the Commission to make certain concessions. He didn't do it for that. He had to familiarise himself before all his social base - this heirous dictator, there is no social base - which is not fully matched with the New Democracy, to prepare his constituents to accept this, that the resolution of the problems of the people is going through the path of conspiracy. They said that clearly yesterday in Zappeion. Tsipras, Tsakalotos and Drasakis said that these concessions we made were necessary, because they brought us on this road, where we can now share a few leftovers with the workers from profitability. In keeping with the programme and the agreements, we have achieved the exit and are now able to divide divide dividends into the people. That's inconsistent. These are impossible in keeping with the agreements made and the stability programmes and all that of the European Union and NATO. It is inconsistent with the interests of the people. And what did they say? ‘Through the concessions’. The others couldn't do it, they were incapable, etc. It was directed insurgent. And this is the great damage that SYRIZA has done and which, unfortunately, continues to do in the field of radicalism, "left" with introductory and indeed left radicalism. Because within the base there are people who may not be communists. They may have serious differences with the JRC's ideology and programme. But they feel left-wing. They've adopted such ideas. Look at that. It is not that now the SYRIZA who has become government, because of pragmatism and pragmatism, has also made a few retreats. That's the place of his birth. I'll remind you of a few things. During the dictatorship was this political current, with the exception of some of its executives - the least, not to be unfair - which said that the passage through the civil Parliamentary Republic would take place through support for the liberalisation of the junta. It was this political current - small, it does not matter, but it is current and it disperses its perceptions, because it also helps the system everywhere - which criticized the right in 1981 in PASOK, which, when it said it was going to expel the bases, told him that it was not a rampage to tear them out and said that there should not be a referendum on the EEC. It doesn't matter whether PASOK would do that. But he said it. And they did not criticise, pressure, even to help it, in any case, to do something positive. They put pressure on the right and - it is important because it is a topical issue - in the 1990s voted on part-time work, and especially on local employment pacts, on the quadruples of employment. When we said that these measures were the preamble to the under-utilisation of human power, for flexible labour relations, for the reduction of wages, etc., we were told that we were doing revolutionary gymnastics. Look, these measures have gone more violently with the crisis, but they have started since then, so the barbaric anti-grass measures start from the period of capitalist development, from the period of urban political stability. They're going through gradually. Of course, when the crisis comes, it passes in the form of shock. By the way, we are voting against SYRIZA and inviting him with everything we have said at times and the fact that Greece has strengthened and claimed to play the "cowboy" of the United States in the imperialist war and in the imperialist competitions in the region to be the guardian of the United States. By the way, all parties with these agreements are saying this: 'Here's the opportunity. The conflict between the United States and Turkey is everything. We must use ourselves to upgrade our role to the detriment of other peoples." It is not the United States that will stop paying more attention to Turkey than to Greece, not because they are Turkish-speaking and religious, but because its geostrategic position is relatively more important than that of Greece. If this exacerbation leads to Turkey's compromise, we will have the division of Cyprus and the colonialism in the Aegean. If this is not settled and takes more escalating forms, they will pay it in many ways - possibly with their blood - both peoples, both Greek and Turkish and other neighbouring peoples. Finally, the measures taken by the government must be measured by the people as follows: for example, six thousand are taken by a retired person all year round by a pension of EUR five hundred. He's taking breath - he says - why he's added six hundred euros. So, with six thousand euros, what kind of breath does it take? Are you kidding us? The SADs? Their contributions are regulated. But they'll get smaller pensions. But that's not the point. You have to relate. Gives one, took ten, gives one, and he gives fifty. This package will come to the House in the form of bills "block" the big capital with new privileges and incentives. They promised and supported these Tsipras, Drasakis, Tsakalotos with specific interventions the other day. Therefore, the Greek people must see things a little later, after three, four, five years, may be a little later. Our place showed alliances, which no one thought would go with New Democracy, that SYRIZA would go with the ANLEs, that we would have a PASOK - Democratic Left - New Democracy, that we would have a PASOK - LAOS - New Democracy. Mostly, the world of PASOK didn't believe them. In the next few years, you will see alliances - I do not want to identify them - which you are vowing today that they will not happen. Of course, they won't be done automatically, welded. Oh, no. Some executives on the one hand, some executives on the other, some executives on the third side will be sacrificed to create even leaders in order to carry out the great alliance. I remind the Members of SYRIZA: From Lula we arrived at Bolsonarro and from Kalema to Berlusconi and don't say your flag is against the far right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs Cavadia has the floor from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for seven minutes and immediately after Mr Stagiras. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following Mr Mitsotakis' speech, we would like to thank the New Democracy for the gift of this three-day debate. You must, however, admit, colleagues of the Officerate, that the choice of the right Timing was never your possible point. Where you planned to appear as ambitious prosecutors, after yesterday's government announcements, but also the early appearance of the Prime Minister, you again become apologies. You have tried to transfer the political debate to a field that is obviously comfortable in the field of vulnerability, misinformation and gossip. "You have painted the ears" of the far right audience, embraced with the oligarchy and the interests that support you. You have recklessly claimed that fascism is repulsed by Polakis' posts. But I have news for you. Fascism is evoked by the social exclusion that neoliberalism is constantly producing. Fascism is driven by the patriopathy you are adopting on national issues. Fascism is expelled when you "fuck" its agenda. So you failed once again. The people in these three days will have the opportunity to hear, compare and judge the people, thankfully for themselves, and unfortunately for you, it is much greater, wider and stronger than the limited circle of fanatical readers and viewers of the media of interactivity that fight us with such vileness. It is not the people who are an awkward consumer of propaganda and understands, for example, how much you fall into your assessments when he listened to your party president telling retired people in Kallithea in May 2017: "Those who promised to give a tenth third pension will cut off both the eleventh and the twelfth. The reduction in pensions will involve more than a million pensioners and we will also have a reduction in tax, so you will be cut by two pensions," said Mr Mitsotakis to the pensioners of the café who was visiting, "one of the reduction in pensions and a second of the tax, because for the first time you will have to pay tax." Congratulations to Mr. Mitsotakis. Two o'clock. Now look, gentlemen of the Officerate, the retired people in their eyes and answer them: Are you bound to the measures brought by the Government or are you asking for the vote of the Greek people to abolish them? Are these your proposals or are they irresponsible policies, as your chosen Mr. Webber claimed? Ladies and gentlemen, in the summer of 2015, we SYRIZA Members were faced with a horrifying dilemma. We fought ourselves. We knew what we had to do toward us, how many of them merciless the other side of our - within or outside of the import - partners. We were fighting for whether our difficult decision would prove right for our country and our people. But we did not cowardly, we did not deposit the weapons, we did not hand over the country to its legitimate owners, who were building up to regain their property, ending up once and for all with such annoying for the same "left parenthesis". We decided to continue the effort, having been defeated in this battle, but having also been taught by these defeats, and that is because our goal has never changed. Our aim was for the country and the people to get rid of the memorandum, to recover our lost popular sovereignty and dignity, to be able to set the country back on their feet, to heal the terrible wounds that the old regime had achieved to her. So we come today to say before the Greek people, not that we did it, because we know very well that the road is long and difficult. We can, however, look at our fellow citizens in the eyes and tell them, with all honesty, that we can do so in time, that the promise we made to them, that after the country's exit from the memoranda we will finally be able to implement a policy close to our ideology and consciousness, this promise we have already kept, as was seen from yesterday's announcements. You blame us, gentlemen of the Officerate, that we are applying a policy with a class mark, and you do not understand that this is exactly what we want, because it is our choice to have free access to the ESS two and a half million uninsured fellow citizens, our choice to return the "ERRIKOS DON" to the public health system, our "select" of the contractors from hospitals, our choice of hot school meals for thousands of children, our selection of six hundred and fifty thousand CDE beneficiaries, our choice to abolish the underpaid wage and increase the minimum, our choice to reinstate collective bargaining, our tenth pension, our hundred and twenty-steen instalments, our choice to reduce VAT and reductions in basic consumer goods, to PPC and natural gas, our choice to increase the pensions of widows and so many more. Because - you see - we do not regard inequality as a natural prefecture, as your President, who, by the way, described yesterday's announcements as 'cheese'. Yes, now that we can, now that there is a financial area after the sacrifices of our people, yes, we are now choosing to stand on the side of the weakest, telling them at the same time a great 'thank you'. Thank you for not being cowardly standing, who, despite the bombing of the make news, remember. You remember 'SIEMENS', offshore, 'NOVARTIS', sea-loving, redundancies, Pinochet-type insurance, porphyry-born genes, who consider their country to be their country of tricks, the representatives of a state that trampled human dignity through tortured people. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly outrageous for the citizens that the representatives of counter-population have nothing to say about the big issues before us by the Greeks, but also by all the Europeans, at these historic times. And what could you really say? What about the future of Europe, when you are smiling at every Orban and every Verber, the most reactionary political figures in Europe today? What European vision of democracy and solidarity to present, you who have made a motto of 'Geroon, strong' and 'wave, Shoeble', are the ones who dream of Europe a fortress, surrounded by barbed wire? This is how we and you will go up to the great battle of national elections in early October. "The man sitting with his guns," to paraphrase the poet. We, with our presence, our work, our word and our actions, not with promises, but with tangible results for the citizen, for society, for the future of the country that gives us the opportunity and courage to ask the people to trust us again, because we have given samples of writing and can convince us that we will continue in the new four-year period 2019-2023. And you, since the comparison of yours and our own things, yours and our own ideological and class programmes, yours and our own arguments are overwhelming at your expense, you are on the only thing left: a vile synonym of lies, vulgarity, hatred and vengeance. So we leave you in the environment that you have chosen to deal with, because you can probably no longer deal elsewhere, since you have turned into a make news machine and right-wing hoaxes. We leave you to your slandering and move forward, having a baby, in the effort to restore the country, the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Cavadia. Mr Stavrou has the floor from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras, acting as an unprepared, wicked and frightened student who does not know the subject in the examinations, when he feels shattered, changes the question. And instead of answering the question of the New Democracy, he's changing the subject and he's asking for confidence in his government. Nineteen days before the European elections, it also throws a set of economic measures at the table, copying ideas from around it and exhausting the left gold dust that it has left. In fact, in desperation, as his political time ends, he puts out of the wicked in the same basket the facts of the current political cycle with announcements about the next cycle of governance. Now, however, today, the events of the current cycle are being assessed. The other measures, starting with implementation in the new government period, are election-type announcements and will be evaluated as such. In the political philosopher's question 'good, do you disagree?' We respond to how these will be discussed at the appropriate time when we make a comparative assessment of the programmes of the two parties. As far as the current situation is concerned, however, we obviously agree with the reintroduction of VAT on focusing and on food at the level that we, New Democracy, delivered them the VAT at the beginning of 2015. And it is true that, with what the government has removed from the public, with the increase in VAT or with the increase in the rate of contribution to health in the main and secondary pensions, the planned partial pension support which is obviously not the thirteenth pension, which is transferred for obvious election purposes earlier, by a government that has abolished the ESA, by a government which does not pay pensions, by a government which has dramatically cut the pensions of young pensioners. Okay, so much insult to the Greek's intelligence? But the citizens, with a script, director and protagonist Mr. Tsipras, have seen it before and experience it in the harsh reality. That's why they finally don't trust him. Prime Minister, I do not trust you, because with the conscious choice of unnecessarily overcrowded, you have led the economy to low flights. You have been systematically failing the development objectives for four years. Prime Minister, I do not trust you because, with the overtaxation of households and businesses, you have broken up the middle class, you have made society poor, and you have put out citizens' debts in tax and insurance funds. The regulation that you are bringing with it is very late, although necessary because of your policy, does not address the problem of private debt as a whole. It sets income criteria even for small debts. It provides very few doses for businesses and does not reward consistency. Prime Minister, I do not trust you, because after you have taken ten of all citizens' wallets, you are now coming back to return a small part of them and, indeed, in long-term announcements, knowing that after the elections you will not be government, announcements for 2020, without going directly to abolish tax reductions, as New Democracy proposes. It is recalled and should be heard that the current government alone has already reduced duty in 2016. I would remind you that the current Minister for Finance would have resigned if the first tax reduction had been made and obviously did not resign. But we already have a tax reduction from the left government and it alone voted for a second reduction in tax in 2017 for 2020. They are reductions in the tax which they already have - the first - and they will have - the first and second - huge costs of the available income of employees and pensioners, especially of the weakest layers of society, overcoming any benefits. Prime Minister, I do not trust you because you cannot restore normality to the economy. Indicators of the economy prove it. The competitiveness of the economy is constantly retreating. The public's obligations are not cleared. The Public Investment Programme is falling apart. Capital Restrictions imposed in 2015 continue to exist. The liquidity of public entities, such as PPC, is deteriorating, while you are ostriching and the public is growing. Prime Minister, I do not trust you, because the late package of measures that you have announced is not part of a comprehensive plan for sustainable economic development, and that is because you can clearly not improve the composition of wealth, you cannot strengthen the supply of the economy. Large investments are coming to an end. Great privatizations are going down. You have proven, because of your ideas, that SYRIZA and investment are not incompatible. Prime Minister, I do not trust you in the other areas of public policy, outside the economy. In foreign policy you proceeded with a nationally detrimental agreement. On the protection of the public interest, your Government proves perforated. There is a general regime of fear and insecurity in the field of civil protection. The short-sighted party is dominated in education. In the field of institutions, the quality of democracy is downgraded, the rule of law is undermined, the separation of powers is threatened. In the field of power management, cynicism, arrogance, appalling aesthetics and immoral ongoing statements by a government minister, while the Prime Minister politically exhausted is blocking with the elite and still looking for a contractor to the European family. In conclusion, the government simply spends its self-sufficient time and resources mocking society with absolute opportunism that can no longer stand by following SYRIZA simply to manage his political end. That is why the starting point of an optimistic reality is approaching. On this starting point, the patriotic, liberal and socially sensitive Government of New Democracy, with seriousness, determination, moderation and modesty, will be called, as it has always done in the difficult times, to meet the challenges of the times. It's time to open the door to the future. Needs require that we move with a coherent plan quickly, effectively and incompatiblely. We all have to build our homeland on modern bases and ensure its strong and dignified course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. Mrs Thalerite from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has the floor for seven minutes. Here, Mrs. Welleritis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u166	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my speech from the outset by stating my unequivocal opposition - no, I would say, and my surprise - unfortunately the extreme and unequivocal speech of the Chief of Officer Mitsotakis, who described a government minister and Prime Minister of the country as "the face of the monster of fascism". It is unheard of for the Greek Parliament to use such expressions and attempt such completely constructed identities in the context of political controversy. I want to express my complete opposition to the ideological, political, parliamentary and this development that is specifically targeted. It has a specific target and a sign of the extreme and slippery road chosen by the opposition, a road that I wonder if it has a return to our country that has experienced fascism in the most dramatic way and from the nazi conquerors and from their partners, paying a high price to dead and executed, but also from modern neo-naziism with murders of immigrants, workers, Paul Physsa, attacks on immigrants and whoever does not fall within ethnic, socialist and patriarchal standards and stereotypes of social archivalism. We wonder where this extreme controversy can go just because the opposition cannot accept that its positions on the course of the country and the new phase we have entered are completely wrong. It is interesting, therefore, to think about why New Democracy once again selects this extreme public speech by building unscrupulous realities. A few months ago, he did so on the occasion of the Prespecies Agreement, involving the outbreak of intolerance, intimidation and fascist violence, and when he asked us to forget Gregory Lambrakis. We remember exactly what he said. Well, I would like to assure you that this preaching of hatred and perversion of reality will fall into the void, as will its toxic ratio regarding my inequalities in human nature and not the consequence of certain social, economic, political and choices, and of course modern neoliberalism and authoritarian capitalism, which is so consistently defending the Realism. And since we are in Parliament, I would like to assure you that democracy for us on the Left means society and a political community open to anti-racism, equality, solidarity, social justice. I don't know whether in these days power is showing the man. “A man’s authority, ” as the Chief of Antipopulation told us. Or maybe I do. Not anymore, Mr. Mitsotakis, not anymore! And if he does so in the final analysis, it is advisable that you turn this saying to yourself, colleagues of the Officerial Opposition, and finally put the brake on this curse of speech and ideals. And because you have called on the Members and Members of Parliament to protect our political and personal dignity, since you are insulting us for accepting to lead our party and our country by someone who, according to what you said in plenary, is the monster of fascism, I would then like to respond with arguments about the government's policy and our own objectives that have genuine and tangible results for society, which is a little concerned with your communication games and the stories you are building. I would therefore agree with the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Giannis Drasakis, that we are indeed living a uniqueness in our country's political history for twenty days before the extremely critical European elections and twenty days before the also critical self-government elections, you choose to completely ignore the forest. You are also trying to convince the people of the country that there is no forest. For example, I will only mention what this government has achieved in extremely difficult conditions. It upgraded the country's role in Europe and the Balkans. Within it she has exploited our freedom and credibility, creates conditions for gradually healing the wounds from the crisis, restoring injustices and establishing for the first time conditions and conditions for sustainable, fair and inclusive growth for the first time after eight years, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population. With full awareness of the difficulties, without triumphing, we are moving forward. We managed to get out of the memoranda and the program, we managed not to reduce pensions. We managed to get out three and a half times on the markets. We managed to return to positive growth rates for the third consecutive year. We have succeeded in restoring public finances and overcoming them, not only in achieving the annual targets. We are moving forward with a draft law submitted to the House on extremely important regulations, on the debts to the social security institutions, on the tax system, on the municipalities. We are reintroducing widow's pensions and, of course, we are strengthening the protection of workers who are always at the heart of the policies of the SYRIZA Government. And we're moving on. And we are going on because, as the Prime Minister said, the country and the economy are on a clear recovery course and that is why the time has come for many. And we move on with measures of a permanent nature, because there is still much of the Greek society that lifted disproportionate weight and has not yet felt the positive consequences from leaving the country from the memoranda, has not felt the results of this positive and hopeful course in its everyday life. We proceed without breach of the targets for 3.5% with immediate measures for 2019, such as reductions in VAT on focusing, energy, the provision of the tenth draft. We are moving forward with a 2020 action plan. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is therefore the current juncture in which the democratic and progressive political forces would expect to contribute to the essence. The political forces would expect to contribute to a substantive dialogue by highlighting any plan of their own for the next day. Instead, the Qualified Opposition makes use of one of the most powerful weapons of parliamentary control by the opposition, not to provoke a debate on wages, taxes, investment and a number of crucial issues, but to avoid this very debate by trying to unilaterally and unilaterally towards a minister's statement. But, as the Prime Minister said yesterday, a vote of confidence in the government today from the House and May and October from the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Thalerite. Mr. Carras has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two questions arise from the present procedure, as deleted. Why is the motion of censure tabled by the Qualified Opposition against the Deputy Minister of Health not being discussed? We have to draw a conclusion, of course. That Mr Paulakis seems to have become accustomed to us in a timely manner during his service and in relation to these behaviours the government, Mr. Tsipras, wants to avoid opening up a debate. But the second question, which has been raised, is this: is the Prime Minister coming and turning the debate from the mere motion of censure against a minister into a general debate on the proposal of confidence in or against the government. This parliamentary tool, Mr Tsipras, has tried it again and has not come out positive for the government - and I am not speaking, ladies and gentlemen, about the result of the vote - I am talking about the outcome of the debate against the SYRIZA. The result of the vote is for granted. And you know why? Because at the moment a majority has been formed which is short-term, opportunistic, a majority which does not show us to have an ideological identity. And this shows the past of SYRIZA's government governance - ANEL in the previous period, where they were moving forward in good cooperation. And today, of course, when they were unable to obtain the identity of each other, we see without any shame in choosing to keep many officials from previous cooperation and from other parties. The government does not seem to respect parliamentary ethics, as it has managed to dismantle parties, has managed to move MPs who have no ideological, social or other understanding or identity among themselves, simply opted for a political roof. In fact, with a recent example two to three days ago, a political roof for which no other interpretation can be given but personal rescue or personal ambition, which they could not cover by staying in those areas, which they were supposed to serve ideologically. These questions, of course, ladies and gentlemen, are rhetorical. I do not expect to get any answers, as I do not expect to get any answers to Mr Polakis' behaviour, which is not just his instant attitude to the candidate MEP, but, as I said at the beginning, is time-consuming. There is no doubt that the Prime Minister is still covering him. So we have to try to make an evaluation of what's going on. I, at least personally, will attempt a brief assessment in the time I am in this House. Unfortunately, I have seen - and I am sorry to say - even caffeine practices. I do not want to go any further on this point and I will put a perfect on that. Because the level of the debate - and still today - is very low, at least between the two strong political actors, the government and the Anti-Population Officer. I personally did not expect it to be converted to such a level. After all, when we get out of our word, let us ask for some apology. But it seems that not even that word exists in the vocabulary. And you know what, ladies and gentlemen? It's hypocritical. It is absolutely hypocritical that a motion of censure against a particular minister should be turned into a proposal of confidence for the entire government. And it is hypocritical that the House is not in a position to assess the behaviour of a minister, as you have seen that we have today transformed the debate into a generalised, enlarged one. We have not been able to assess the behaviour of a minister. And after all, the government and, in particular, the Prime Minister, who has been responsible for the choice and responsibility for the control and supervision of the ministers, has given no answer. It simply remained with the majority, of which I described earlier, to confirm that there will be no question of restoring confidence in the government. These are, of course, things that give rise to the thought that we are leading to a collapse of the government in the eyes of the world, which does not give credible answers. I am not going to talk at this time about whether the moral advantage on the Left is credible or not. The world will judge this very soon and has the opportunity and the day after tomorrow in the European elections and partly in the self-government elections. However, what I must say has also created in my own understanding a painful moral decline is the issue with Matti. We were dead, we really had dead. We had a tragedy, we had families lost. I have to say that one there was my colleague, my friend, and he lost his two grandchildren and his own life. I did not understand from a governmental point of view this tragedy. I did not understand that measures were taken for the future so that they would not be repeated. We have seen a dissolution of government, we have seen an administrative dismantling. And I was amazed at the last revelation a few days, a few weeks ago - to be fair - of the performance given to the coordination of the fire brigade in the presence of the Prime Minister of the half government. That is why many Members must be called upon to explain, if not apologise. I am speaking not only of criminal apologies, but also of political apologies, and also of political responsibility. Everyone is currently silent in this area. So everyone has the right to rest. I am not going to talk about 'coterology'. I will say, however, that I have been expecting the total apology of the Prime Minister for this tragedy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minimum tolerance, Mr President, please. I have not heard the word 'I'm sorry. I heard pitifulness, irrationality and arrogantness all over her majesty. So we need to see what happens from now on. Unfortunately, there is not much to be done, because we see that we love the chair, but we have created a gap in the Greek society and the Greek economy. I'll be very brief. Overcrowds have taken resources. The economic policy pursued throughout governance was bad and strangled the middle-class. We have this as proof, ladies and gentlemen, when we see yesterday's announcements based on a surplus, it is based on the removal of resources, whether in the form of contributions or in the form of taxation. What do we have to answer? Do we have to stand and think about whether these resources had been mitigated, the removal, the strangulation, had given growth and did not today need what I would call within my mind that we have turned the proud Greeks into belligerents? Was that a policy? I have not heard the word 'development' anywhere. I just heard there's going to be a bill that gives a developmental picture. I would remind you, Mr President, that the Katrugalou Act collapsed the insurance system, the distinction between young and old pensioners has created inequality of more than 30%. These cannot be restored. Too many retired people are waiting for recalculation, he says. There are personal differences. What's going on here? Is there an economic policy or is there amateurism? These are not fair and philosophical measures. And so we must say that we will also bear the responsibilities and the New Democracy colleagues who forget their responsibility for the duration...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u169	Come on, Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u170	If you're kind, Mr. President, give me another thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u171	You've already reached nine minutes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u172	A request for thirty seconds, Mr. President. We forgot about the period 2004-2009, we forgot that the country is based on the democratic party of the entire decade of the crisis. The health system and education are preserved thanks to the foundations they had from the 1980s to 1990s. We are therefore waiting for short elections. The Change Movement promises, gives the Greeks hope. We see that, on the side of SYRIZA, fortunately, the moderates, the reasonable ones abandon him, and I must say that the more we go to the elections, the more the position of the Change Movement - the Gennamas has said so - and we are optimistic about the future. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u173	Be well! Here, Mr. Katsi, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. The three-day debate that began today on giving the government a vote of confidence, I think, is a first-class opportunity for the citizens who are listening to us and watching us compare the facts and proposals for the future of the country with all the wings of Parliament. At least, on our side, they will hear a plan and political arguments. We will not follow the New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis on the slippery path that she has chosen to deal with as the only thing she has left to do. This road is no other than the one that Valer Benyamin described as a sensitisation of the policy that with tools for apolic yellowism, the gelbelist make-up cetata and toxic conspiracy place communication instead of the contents of politics at the forefront. In the face of this slippery way that fertilises extreme right-wing populism and fantasizes the already fantasy, we will be confronted with arguments, with our positions, with our things and with the plan for the next day. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's debate, the reluctance of a member of the government, Paul Paul Paul Paul, has been taken care of, not for the policy of the Deputy Minister for Health, but for his style. It is expected that the New Democracy and the majority of the media will not rupture Mr Polakis on rose petals, since he has sent to justice a series of scandals of millions in the area of his responsibility, health, a share of which he also went to the media. We have always said that the Greek people need to know who is responsible for the country's bankruptcy and that there is a cleansing in order to restore the credibility of the political system, otherwise the extreme right that turns against democracy is at stake. We are also moving forward in all those institutional areas so that there are no conditions for extensive corruption to happen in the future. And that's what we all do, like Paul Paulakis, and the head of the Ministry of Health. The ministers are judged by their work and in Thesprotia, which I know well, in the health sector, we opened up the emergency department that was rioting, opened a local health unit in Igoumenitsa, got medical staff and new ambulances, while we financed a new CT and a new magnetic tomograph. Similar actions have been taken throughout the country in all the prefectures. All of this was our election commitments. So the motion of censure has no legal basis and is a cheap communication diversion. Now let's go further. I want to make a case, ladies and gentlemen. To be transferred to not far away 2014 and assume that there is someone who claims that in the near future the following will be done: Greece will have gone out of the memorandum and borrowed from the markets with the lowest interest rates in the last 20 years, regulated its debt for a long period of grace and returned to the growth of 2% against the recession, created a pillow with over 30 billion, and licensed funds, the unemployment rate of tens of thousands of new jobs will have fallen, exports will be at the highest percentage of all seasons, tourism will be smuggled by breaking one record after another, while insurance contributions will have fallen for the vast majority of free professionals and farmers, the minimum wage will have increased 11%, while racist subsistence for youth has been abolished, collective bargaining will have returned and, finally, hundreds of thousands of weak households will receive social solidarity incomes, in hundreds of thousands of households being subsidised by the state, their rents will be taken away from the municipality, and the totality will be paid out of the land. In addition, all insurers will have free and free access to public health and, in fact, new structures will have been opened, the tenth pension will have returned, taxes such as VAT, HNPH and the solidarity levy would have been sustainable social security systems, doubled family benefits and school meals will be provided, and every Christmas for three consecutive years the over-performance of the economy will return as a social dividend in citizens' pockets. And finally, Macedonian will have resolved on the basis of the national line, Greece will have powerful geopolitical alliances and the international press would treat it as an example to be imitated. Obviously no one, not even the most optimistic of us, would believe that all this would happen in 2014. However, these are only the basics that this government has already done for this society which has suffered for years and paid disproportionately. Have we solved all the problems? Obviously not, no one could solve them within four years. The wounds of the crisis are still open. Unemployment must fall by another ten units. We are sure, however, that we are on the right track with a plan, vision and without the mistakes of the past. That's what we do, that we're liars and unreliable! Let's see now what the sincere and reliable ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and its companions are doing. You told us that the cutter is coming, that we will not catch the targets and the surpluses, that pensions and tax will be cut, that the fourth memorandum comes, that we will not go out on the markets, that the debt will not be adjusted. All these predictions have been misguided and all Greek citizens wonder: If you are so untrustworthy as a government what will you be? You say to us, of course, that social inequality is a natural phenomenon, that the eighth is outdated, that the thirteenth pension is populism, that unemployment benefits, children's benefits, social solidarity incomes make the world lazy, and that the 'one to five' recruitment - departures - must be restored to the state in the post-practical interests. You told us that the Prime Minister's relief package was wrong, and you denounce it by reminding Shoeble. So the question I am asking you directly is this: Now that there is no financial space from the pension cut and duty-free, there is no financial space, no surplus, as it is bound and given with the permanent relief measures we have announced, where will you find the money for tax exemptions? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There are two things going on: either you are lying consciously or you will reveal to us what positively we have voted on you intend to cut off if you ever go out to the government. And we expect you to tell us in public so that the Greek people know them. Because the most appropriate Prime Minister for the polls cannot be inappropriate to oppose debate. In conclusion, I would like to say that Mr Mitsotakis cannot represent the country abroad when he cannot represent the Civic Opposition internally. I have given a vote of confidence to the current government that went through a lot and achieved a lot. So we will stand by the path of recovery, because Alexis Tsipras is entitled to lead another four years to the wheel of Greece, at the wheel of Greece, by applying now that we can and need the progressive changes that the country needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Katsy. Mrs Arabatzi and Mr Charakopoulos from New Democracy are the last two speakers for tonight. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00 in the morning. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras' glorious appearance in the House tonight proves only one thing, his glaring anxiety over the heavy defeat that comes. Mr. Tsipras was not a Prime Minister tonight, he certainly wasn't his cool old self. It was the upgraded version of "anyanism" that muddles and slanders everything in front of it in order to survive. He threatens us to take us to the end, and Paul Paulakis is approaching the headquarters of the Chief of Police Response to fight him and move his finger by speaking inconsistently. For your unprecedented trabucisms and toddlers, the people will punish you hard on May 26th. But tonight's panic also justifies Mr. Tsipras' study to proceed one day before today's debate in an election fair with promise of course in 2020, when it will not be the Prime Minister, but with the vote of the Greek people, Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Unhealthy populist and seeful replicator, since his so-called announcements are stolen commitments of the New Democracy. I wonder if this is an inspiration for the last minute or if it came in the hours of resting on Mrs. Panagopoulos, while all of Greece was mourning the dead in Matti. Whatever happens, in vain trouble, because no one will forget that you have charged us with 14 billion unnecessarily unnecessarily taxed. No one forgets that you got VAT on the focus at 13%, you launched it at 24% with your paranoid government, and now, on the lands, you are announcing its reduction. No one forgets the pension towel, the unprecedented abolition of the CSCE bearing your stamp. These are not covered by a ragged allowance that you call a thirteenth pension without shame. Of course, Mr Tsipras did not make our proposal and our commitment to cancelling the unnecessarily tax reduction, which you have certainly preferred, because if the reduction is in force, you will have given half a third pension and the pensioners will lose the entire twelfth pension. The proposal for distrust, therefore, of the New Democracy is for this horrendous way of governance, but above all for an entire disgraceful political behaviour that he hears in the name of 'pollism', a behaviour synonymous with fascism, and those who give Friday a vote of confidence in the government, you are all government and a multitude party, you reward political vulgarity, the political flaw, you reward the political cynicism that is summarized in his phrase: 'I have all of you'! Unfortunately, you remember a similar aesthetic and political barbaric phrase of the past, the 'you are not entitled to speak' by the Menios Koutsougiorgas, who, of course, also pale in front of the modern expressor Paulis. Except that 2019 is not 1981, and Mr. Paulakis neither threatens us that we are not entitled to talk, he can nor represent Mr. Tsipras' political fold dog that bark to fear society, the judges, the media, your political opponents. You have no "we", Mr Polakis, no matter how much political poison your word drips, no matter how many threats you make with the unspeakable memory: "I had to shove him three meters below the earth." You are a sad symptom of an impotent government that does not hesitate to support the obscene attack on Stelios Kymbouropoulos, a government that has no fundamental political courage to ask for a brave apologies from a life fighter, who has turned his disability from an obstacle to life and action, a man who, with his participation in the Eurodac of New Democracy. However, the saddest thing of all is that instead of apologies, Mr. Tsipras rewards Mr. Polakis' creepy vulgarity. The Easter holidays and Cretan dances with him are symbolic rewards. I wanted to know Mr. Friend, who, in this Chamber, said that Mr. Paulakis does not represent the democratic ethos of SYRIZA, how does he swallow all this? And if you, Mr Philly, and those who reacted at first, you swallow it, we are here to finally say 'as far as this is concerned'. And this "as far here" is very resounding to me personally, because you see I had the privilege of the personal attack by Mr. Polakis. A few weeks ago, with his well-known market style, he rushed to vomit me, deceive me, because on March 25, I led the High School of Greek Serres, a twenty-year member of him, wearing the honored historical Macedonian costume of Rumlouki, writing on his personal Facebook account: "False patriotism will always be the last refuge of his old system and political representatives". I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Fotini Arabatzis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] False patriots or rather stateless are you and all your government, Mr. Polakis. The stateless, because otherwise you would not allow the Macedonians, with the shameful Ambassadors' agreement, to boast today of so-called Macedonian language and identity. However, since apart from vulgar, you are also a slander, you attempted to show me falsely as a convicted MP in 2018 for my case concerning a period that I was not a MP and most importantly, a case for which I was practically acquitted in 2015. But that's where the political vulnerability of your government lies. Activate a policy of killing characters to anyone who dares to manifest their patriotic feelings by presenting him with criminal, affluent, morally bleak. Politicians who oppose your harmful national choices are fascistically targeting themselves as intertwined, discredited, even patriots and an entire people - not to forget - as a far-reaching right-wing mob. But I challenge you, Mr. Polakis, not to hide, as you do, behind your parliamentary immunity, not to hide behind Mr. Tsipras' trousers and to come to court to apologize for the lawsuit I have testified against you. As for what "Macedonna" means, you will understand it on the night of May 26, when the citizens' response to the obscured Prespecies Agreement will be rainy and merciless, as will be the "no" that they will say in your hopeless attempt to appear as the new Mavroyalures. After you have exterminated them, now throwing crumbs at them, unreliable politically and morally stripped, because the last people who had hallucinations also understood your hypocrisy when they saw Mr. Tsipras rest upon the hens of the elites who are supposedly fighting for years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Most importantly, however, they overturned - and I am ending, Mr President - when they saw the revelations of the journalistic survey on the tragedy in Matti, the dead which you both knew, Mr Tsipras, and Mr Paulakis on the night of July 23rd, but were consciously and irreversibly hiding it by playing theater in front of the set up cameras. Arabism, vulgarity, cynicism. So in all this, we're across the street. Against your most cruel, shameful face, under the face of your supposed moral advantage. At the same time, you have the courage to see that you are the government of many! No, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are the government of the pursuit of the many, the government of late and replacement hug with elites, the government of the rented consciences, with a recent example of Mr Theocharopoulos's.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u177	Madam Colleague, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u178	I'm done, Mr. President. Deception, shamelessness, authority, 'polluterism'. So please rejoice him unrepentantly, Mr. Polakis and his misery. He lives next time to take him, Prime Minister, together to ignore the Aegean on board the ships of your friends. I don't know if it'll fit in such a lukewarm environment, but it'll certainly be able to light your cigar with ease! Thank you for your tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Arabaji. Last speaker on the meeting tonight is Mr Charakopoulos from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Prime Minister, fearing that a vote on the fabulous Sfakian, as he described his hybrid minister, Mr Polakis, may have leaks in the government camp, has turned the motion of censure into a total vote of confidence towards the government. Mr. Tsipras offers exemplarily protection to his Minister for the unspeakable attack on Stelios Kymbropoulou, a man who is a model fighter of life. The unfamiliar style of Paulis becomes the government's official line. Besides, it is no coincidence that the Prime Minister chose to spend Easter holidays with Mr Polakis. Show me your friend, I'll tell you who you are! Minister, the government in a panic before heavy defeat in the forthcoming elections plays its last card, the redemption of votes, announcing benefits a few days before the polls, and changing the heavy agenda of the harsh day-to-day life. He announced half of the European elections to be given by 26 May. Such a method of political corruption has no precedent. It is unfortunate to compare the requirements of agricultural subsidies given by George Rullie on eves of 1981. The country had just entered the European Union at that time and an attempt was made to see the benefits of integration for the citizens. Today we are not even observing the pretexts. You who have abolished the EASA, which has cut pensions and subsidiary, which have imposed the most heavy tax, now give a fraction of what you have gathered by overtaxing, making the boxers too. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens have been retired and for months they do not get one, because you deliberately do not go ahead with the extradition of their pensions, to present surpluses that you use as an election tool. You also announced the reduction of VAT in the focus, thinking that the citizens forgot that you were the ones who increased him by coming to power. The rest for 2020 and 2021 is free promises, since you know you won't be in the government. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA and his willing companions have demonstrated daily that their only concern is the distortion of reality and the spiral of their political opponents. The Greek people are following the climax of the demonstration of cynicism, amoralism and arrogantness manifested by the government majority. Background transactions have become everyday in SYRIZA’s day, plunging the credibility of the parliamentary system. The vote on the nationally detrimental Prespecies Agreement was exchanged with one position in the Euroleaf or a ministerial court of a few months ago, all of these detested politicians in the consciousness of Greek politicians surrender to oblivion. Day after day the real face of those elected by supposedly moral advantage is revealed. Those who played it in popular children were caught enjoying the charm of the bourgeoisie, the fat of the elites they supposedly conquer. The same lack of ethos proves to be in the management of the tragedy in Eye, with the clichés that concealed the dead, the fake maps, the fierce attacks on the victims themselves, to cover their own inability at the time of the crisis. Even today, instead of apologies, they're pretending to be the guardians. I don't think modern history has a similar example of obesity. The first time left came to teach us that too. At the same time, the explosion of all forms of crime, small and large, breaks record. It is true that the citizens know it much better than the statistics that are squeezing every one of the ministerial twins of the relevant ministry. We are also experiencing it when in Exarches every concept of legality, any concept of law and the protection of property and personal security falls apart. We experience it with the action of the uncontrollable "Ruvikon", your own children, who do not know holidays and holidays, but work in a fierce way, making the debts of judge and punishment, hitting public and private spaces and, in addition, directly terrorizing the judges not to dare to reject the request for permission of the unrepentant arrogance of 17 November, by Koufantina. We are experiencing it with the chaos that prevails in prisons, where the situation has escaped all control, with murders that are referred to third-world countries. We experience it with the revelations of the terrible living conditions in hotspots, where dozens of NGOs, as a state in a state, are calling out millions of subsidies. Mr President, not all of this is of course a phenomena, but a result of concrete decisions and choices made by the government. It is the result of the cannabis of all kinds of lawlessness reflected in the Law of Gavroglou for the asylum of lawlessness, in the Act of Paraguaypoulou to open prisons to all kinds of criminals, in the fall of the “DELTA” Group, in the amnesia of Mr. Kritsis for the dead of the molotovs, to the immigrants of Christodoulopoulos, who are melted and extinct! Finally, it is the result of a whole conception, which can be resonated to a margin of 3% -4%, as well as the percentages of the old SYRIZA, but it is tragically minority in Greek society. Minister, the SYRIZA government will be recorded as a black page in modern political history. In every area, the negative consequences you leave are unprecedented. However, it is certain that this policy of opportunism, intrigue and inconsistency will be paid by the citizens in the appropriate currency. So no matter what terrain the government's majority invented, no matter how many rockhounds you browse, no matter what gifts she share, her destiny is predetermined. No one can escape political nemesis! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Harakopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Prime Minister's proposal for a vote of Parliament's confidence in the government was completed on the first day. Before we close, I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Constitution of the Concession of the Project - Construction - Financing - Operation - Maintenance and Operation of the New International Airports of Heraklion Crete and Study - Construction and Financing of its Roads". Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-08-S1-commons.u182	With the consent of the House, the sitting for today, Thursday, May 9, 2019, at 10.00" on the subject of the House's work is to continue the debate and vote on the Prime Minister's proposal to give a vote of confidence to the Government, in accordance with Rule 84 of the Constitution and Rule 141 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
