ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs, Mr Koutnatzis, informs the House of the following: "We hereby inform you about the debate on topical questions, in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, on Monday 30 September 2019, that the topical questions to be discussed are: The numbers 29/23-9-2019 and 33/24-9-2019 will be answered by the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Niki Kerameos, the number 21/19-9-2019 and the 35/24-9-2019 topical questions will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sport, Linda Mendoni and the question number 25/23-9-2019 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Tourism, Emmanouil Kosola. Please take the appropriate steps to inform both the President-in-Office and the honourable Members of the proceedings." First of all, then, the third question under number 29/23-9-2019 will be discussed, first of all, by Congressman I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The implementation of the two-year pre-school education". Mr. Delia, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this year's school year has begun, and the second phase of the implementation of the two-year compulsory pre-school education law has begun, and the situation in pre-school education - with the most urgent characterisation - is explosive. Hundreds of infants - may even be more, thousands - in the municipalities currently undergoing two-year compulsory pre-school education, either in kindergartens or far away from home, and thus undergo an incredible suffering and children, but also their parents - for example here in Athens the Municipality of Nea Ionia, as well as the Municipality of Paul Mela, Stavroupolis of Western Thessaloniki - either afflicted in overcrowded sections - the law provided for a kindergarten for twenty-two children, but in these areas and in most of the areas where the two-year pre-school education is being carried out, children are either three, or twenty-four, or even twenty-five, with what it means for kindergartens and nurseries - whether this is even worse - than ever - than those of two-year-old school-leaving children are either three, or even twenty-five, with all sorts of other children even in nurseries or nurseries. The situation really, like I said, is explosive. Of course, the responsibilities of the previous government are given, and we pointed out then, in the discussion of the law and in the amendments made at times by the previous head of the Ministry, and the sluggishness, but - we would dare to say - and the irresponsibility of the previous government in implementing such an important and important educational and pedagogical measure. The issue is now what you, Minister, are doing, what your government, the New Democracy Government, has certainly known the matter since spring 2018, when the law was passed. The answer is not rhetorical, life itself has given it, and you are giving it to the Ministry and the Government of New Democracy. It goes on from where the previous government of SYRIZA left it, that is to say, it leaves this issue to be dragged, literally working on the knee like the real needs of these children of pre-school age, that is to say, to be literally unsatisfactory. Our question was also raised in the previous leadership of the Ministry of Education as criticism. The question - and this is what we are asking you today, Minister - is: will you finally give a brave state funding so that it begins - so that we are not going to be built tomorrow, but to begin -, to make public, to draw up a programme for the construction of school buildings and, in particular, kindergartens, modern buildings, safe, in order to house all children, of course with the relevant spaces for feeding, resting them and what this kindergarten procedure needs? And of course, because spaces are not enough by themselves and infrastructures say nothing, what will you do so that these spaces, these kindergartens, are served by permanent teaching staff? So you're going to make appointments to preschool education? Because, at the moment, the needs are literally enormous and will increase as long as it is extended - it is expected that time will expand - and the third phase of application of compulsory pre-school education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much Mr. Delis. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos. Mrs. Kyrame, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Delis, for the question. Mr. Delia, we were together in the SYRIZA Government Committee on Forums. As you know, the New Democracy has been in favour from the outset of compulsory two-year pre-school education, and that is exactly what we have had in the run-up to elections, and that is what we are saying after-election. When the previous government had brought this regulation to a vote in the Greek Parliament, we then slammed the alarm and said: 'Yes, we agree at first, but there is not enough infrastructure to enable this measure to take place'. We'd hit the alarm at the time. Unfortunately, the government has not listened to us. What situation did we receive two months ago? Because I remind you that we are just more than two months of government. When we received the headship of the Ministry of Education, it had already begun, we were in the second phase of implementing the measure, which a hundred and sixteen municipalities would enter into compulsory two-year pre-school education. So when we received the Ministry's leadership, Mr. Delis, from the hundreds of sixteen municipalities, the fifty - two municipalities, on the basis of the services figures, were unable to respond to two-year compulsory pre-school education. What could we do? Let us say 'that's what the services tell us, we stop here, the pencils down, we do nothing'. We didn't do that, Mr. Delia. We have sat down, pressed municipalities, pressed to see infrastructure, pressed to do so as far as possible, despite the adverse circumstances we have received from the previous government. Of the fifty two municipalities in which there were no infrastructure, we managed and reduced this number to thirteen and even to thirteen - although it is not the Ministry of Education - we have ensured that there was a new competition, that vouchers come out for those children who had left out of two years of pre-school compulsory education and that the expenditure to go to municipal schools. You asked two questions, first of all, on the construction of new kindergartens. I must point out, Mr Delis, that this is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, as you know. It is of the Ministry of Infrastructure and in particular of the CFP, the competent body, which is exactly implementing such infrastructure. In any case, I am appalled, as far as I know, that is taking place at a very fast pace, I would say, that the procedures will be in place so that there will be full infrastructure coverage by the relevant Ministry, but I imagine that Mr Karamanlis and the responsible body will have more details. In any case, we are closely following this issue and our aim is next year to proceed to the full implementation of the new regulation. The second question concerns staffing. When we received the head of the Ministry of Education again, the services informed us of procedures that had not yet been launched, in order to proceed with filling out the gaps. I have to tell you that the procedures went too fast. The new leadership of the Ministry has been recruited more than thirty thousand alternates. We are in a process - and now even - to record new gaps that are constantly present, because some teachers are not sometimes present and the goal is to record all gaps in detail and on the basis of the country's financial resources, to consider also the possibility of appointments to primary education that covers, as you know, pre-school. This will depend on the objective figures that we receive, the objective elements, as well as on the country's financial potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is typical of your answers that on the two most crucial issues, which essentially dictate the implementation of this two-year-old pre-school education project, namely infrastructure and permanent appointments, permanent staff, you have given very vague answers. On the one hand, you said about infrastructures that this is not about the Ministry. Of course government responsibility is uniform as far as I am concerned. The appointments you said you would consider. These are phrases that we have heard many times for too many years here from all governments. I would point it out, it is a feature - I think - in your answer. For the situation you have received, as you say, two months of government, look at two months of government, you may be, but you have had time to do a lot of things, I would say, for investors, for capital, to go ahead with investment, to get rid of the big-time workers, for example, from their responsibility to workers - the contractors, I mean - to remove even that minimum protection for the good reason of redundancies and a number of measures, as well as work with the Americans for new defence cooperation. So you have two months to be a government and you have already carried out rich work in other areas. It is quite accidental in these areas that education does not belong, and much more does not belong to pre-school education. You said - and we really do not question the situation as you received it - that it was a very bad situation. You said for a hundred and sixteen municipalities from which you arrived at fifty two. Anyway, you've been pushing. The point is, you did not give any money, you did not fund these municipalities. You will, of course. If you gave Larissa little, as far as I know, for some tens of thousands of euros that aren't enough. In any case, the way in which this issue has been resolved is, for example, in Epharpia, in Thessaloniki to have parts of the twenty-four children, in Nicopolis, children to learn in sleeping rooms, in Nice to become rooms, to close their kindergartens, with what this means for a region that has recently met and an earthquake, that is, there are risks to these children and free spaces are closed down in buildings. We have too many examples of this. I don't know if this is called a successful or qualitative implementation of pre-school education. On the other hand, this exception of thirteen municipalities is not so innocent. We would like to hear your answer here. First of all, because, on the one hand, a differentiated picture arises from this exception, a differentiated picture in the field of pre-school education. We have municipalities where preschool education is being applied. We have municipalities where it is not applied at all and we have municipalities like these thirteen municipalities that you have exempted from there, according to your communication, "that children living in these municipalities can join this year's teaching year as far as possible into preschool education structures at the beginning of the school year". This is from your ministry press release. We'd like to know where the government is taking it. Tell us in a clear way. Because this means a double preschool education network and kindergartens and kindergartens, which, of course, several mayors who support and support the New Democracy do so. Or is this inadmissible, because this is what pre-school education is all about, is that your goal? In any case, to close it, for us, the issue of pre-school education, Minister, is not a matter that we are dealing with only in relation to the needs of the working mother or the working father. We consider it before all to be the child's right and need for psychosomatic, emotional, social, and full-fledged development.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u7	Finish it, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u8	That is where we start, and that is why this need should be fully and adequately covered by the state, which, of course, seems to have no intention of you either doing and offering for all children.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u9	Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Delia, I have two sentences of yours. The first is that the situation is explosive. And the second is that we let this situation drift. I'm asking you. We let it slip when, while we received a situation where fifty-two municipalities were in a fragile position with the previous government, were we able to put down these fifty two municipalities in thirteen and ensure that these children are not left out of structure? It was very important to us. Our priority is the universal application of the two-year compulsory pre-school education. That is our ultimate goal. We have received this situation that we have received and made huge efforts successfully and have succeeded and have only thirteen of the sixteen municipalities not to implement the two-year pre-school education and these children have been covered in pre-school education structures. On both infrastructure issues you said that I answered you in general. I answered you very specifically. It is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. However, because I have been informed in order to give you a more complete answer, the necessary infrastructure has already been launched in order to allow for uninterrupted compulsory pre-school education to be applied uninterruptedly. As for the money, too, it is not our responsibility. But, on the basis of my information, money was also given to the municipalities for infrastructure in order to meet needs. The responsibility lies with the Ministry of Infrastructure, and I imagine they will be able to update more fully. Second, appointments. You said that I answered you in general and that you recognise that we have just received, but on the other hand we have done so many other things. Within the many other things we have done, Mr Delis, you have not mentioned that we are going ahead with the appointments of four and a half thousand special education courses, which are the only ones to be charged. The previous government was talking about ten thousand five hundred mass appointments in general education. But he had not budgeted a single euro for them. In special treatment as we received the leadership of the Ministry of Education one of the first meetings we held was with the AACC in order to speed up this process which had not been accelerated. And if we hadn't accelerated the process, we wouldn't have been able to post the first tables. As you would have seen, perhaps a week ago, we had the first tables posted. And as this procedure has been initiated at the moment, good things will be done by the end of the year. So we are moving quickly, Mr Delis, and to meet very important needs in education as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Next to be discussed is the fourth question, number 33/24-9-2019, in the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mera25 Mr. Angeliki Adamopoulos, to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "A school of teachers in primary education". Mrs. Adamopoulou, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, starting with the government's pre-election announcements on education, in which it was planned recruitment on the basis of the real needs, demographic developments and budgetary possibilities, I quote the corresponding needs the Teaching Federation of Greece has mentioned. He said, therefore, with all formality, that functional gaps in primary education amount to four thousand two hundred. Four thousand fewer teachers in kindergartens and primary schools in the country than they need to meet the minimum needs of students. And all this while the school year has already begun for three weeks. Most gaps are observed in kindergartens, teachers of all specialties, as well as teachers in special and parallel support. They refer to specific figures: in the 1st of Athens forty-two gaps, in the second of Athens two hundred fifty nine, in the third of Athens two hundred forty-five gaps, in the east of Attica, twenty-five gaps, in the west of Attica, four gaps, in Piraeus one hundred five, in the Dodecanese three hundred gaps, in Heraklion two hundred thirteen gaps, in Rethymnon two, in Chania one hundred and twenty-eight. Infinite gaps are also observed, in special treatment, about a thousand five hundred gaps, in the North Aegean over two hundred fifty gaps. Minister, the number of loopholes on the one hand bears witness to the enormous needs of schools and kindergartens in educational staff, but also bears witness to the government's failure so far to deal with the problem, a problem which, unfortunately, the parents and the children of the country, who have no alternative to public free education, are constantly undermining. Instead of the government having made progress with the necessary number of permanent teachers, it has hired several alternates, who should normally meet temporary needs. However, given that there is a standing tactic perpetuated by all governments, they eventually cover standing and constant needs, under a particularly precarious work regime. So we ask why so many gaps have arisen in primary education that leave schools undersubordinated, while the teaching year has already begun? Why has the government not taken care to cover themselves in time? Given both the huge obligation of the State to take the necessary measures to provide public free high-level education, but also in view of the need to find a permanent solution, what measures in particular does the government intend to take to fill gaps and to absorb teachers into permanent jobs and what is the timetable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much Mrs Adamopoulos. The Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, will answer. Mrs. Keramea, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mrs Adamopoulou, for the question. I fear that your information is not up-to-date, and I say this, it makes sense in part, because your question was submitted earlier in September, and perhaps, as you will know, it has already been covered, there has been a second phase of recruitment, based on new gaps recorded in September. There was a new recruitment phase, almost six thousand teachers, with a total of more than 30 000 recruits of assistant teachers. So I'm already starting by the fact that this evidence - I don't know if it was even accurate - is certainly not accurate. Look, as I said before, we have received a very difficult situation and yet, despite the unfavourable circumstances, we have managed and opened the schools, with all the books in their places, all the books whose tradition has been launched in August and with too many teachers, with a very competent staffing. Obviously, new gaps are always recorded, because teachers are sometimes not present, new gaps sent to us by the regional administrations. We have, as has been said, proceeded to a first major phase of twenty-four thousand four hundred seven recruitments and a second phase of five thousand eight hundred thirty-six alternates. So we are already in a very good phase. With three weeks of open schools, too much of the needs have already been met. For special treatment, as I said before, we have received a difficult situation because, while it had been announced and voted on the appointment of four thousand five hundred special education staff and special assistants, the government still had not speeded up the process so that this could be done quickly. One of the first actions I myself took in the first week of the Ministry of Education was to meet with the AACC in order to speed up this appointment process in the special education that requires such appointments. And we accelerated the procedures and because we have speeded up the procedures in very good cooperation with the ADP, which works very hard towards this goal, the first tables have already been published and we are already within a timeframe to complete these appointments in 2019. Let me make it clear here that we have already anticipated that the alternates will not lose their place when appointments are now in progress before the end of the year. And in any case, we anticipate that there will be a very wide overlap between the special treatment substitutes and more than the permanently appointed special treatments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, too. Mrs. Adamopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We would like a further explanation on this point that many teachers are not present, because I suspect that those who are not present are substitutes, who find it difficult for their family to harmonise their professional life as substitutes for their family lives. We know that the difficulties these people encounter are too many. It should be every nine months with the suitcase in hand to move from one place to another. In relation to the issue of permanent appointments, I think that a clear answer has not been given. You have responded to us with regard to substitutes for special treatment and, in general, alternates, when we consider that one of the most important problems and the path of education to be the deterioration of the issue of the appointments of permanent teachers. We cannot, under any circumstances, believe that there is no financial margin to cover these positions. And in this respect, I would like to mention attributes that there is a specific article in L.4623 recently voted, which says that it is planned for both 2019 and 2020 that a certain amount of EUR 50 million will be allocated for the recruitment of assistant teachers. So the question is: How can this amount be disbursed for substitutes and not made available for the appointment of permanent teachers? In short, we do not understand from your answer nor in general because there is a preference for the appointments of alternates and not of permanent teachers. Whether this is a matter of budget, there is a great deal of question on our part, because the government with the legislation already adopted promotes substitutes financially. Of course, at this point to mention that we also consider that there are budgetary margins when the government according to valid sources is applying even the 37 billion-dollar pillow only to help recapitalise the banks to reduce red loans. Our conclusion, therefore, is that there is no desire on the part of the government to cover permanent posts, and the reason is that public free education is gradually diminishing only in order to promote the government's agenda which is to promote private education and education under a very flexible working regime, such as substitutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much Mrs Adamopoulou. Mrs. Kyrame, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Adamopoulou, I shall refer to two points. Firstly, as far as the substitutes are concerned, the situation is bad. What do I mean? For us it is absolutely two elements: first, the fact that the state is being notified so late and has a time-consuming responsibility in this regard. I personally consider it a great mistake - as the procedures so far stand - that alternates are notified a few days before being invited to attend their schools. That is why, because we do not think it is right, we have already instructed the services so that, from time to time, the procedures can be started much sooner, that all service changes will be made much earlier, so that the alternates will not be notified at the last minute and have a reasonable time before them, so that they can organise their lives as they should. This is the first element of the condition of the deputies and of the unfavourable conditions in which they are actually working. The second element is employment rights. The truth is that, as it stands today, these alternates almost cannot get sick, almost cannot give birth and so on. We are therefore working on both these guidelines with regard to alternates, and for the process of filling these gaps much earlier, and to improve the working rights, the conditions in which these teachers are working, which are really awkward today. As far as permanent appointments are concerned, Mrs Adamopoulou, we have received a specific budget. This particular budget was registered for permanent appointments to general education EUR zero. Zero euros! It's the budget that SYRIZA submitted. So there was absolutely no possibility at the moment, there had been nothing in this direction for us to make any appointments. You're asking why you're making a move on subservient recruitment. The answer is very simple. Unfortunately, it cannot cover so many places in order for our children not to stay without teachers. Because the truth is that the deputy costs the state less than the permanent one. I wish - and this is what we are trying to do - that if we find the financial margin and after a detailed account of the gaps, we move to targeted recruitment where there really is a need. The Prime Minister also stated in the election that there are three areas in which this government gives a special priority - if you like - for health, safety and education. That is why we have already moved on very rapidly with recruitment, permanent appointments of special-education teachers and all this in just two months' time that we are in the country's governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too. We move on to the first with number 35/24-9-2019 in the first cycle of the Member State of the Radical Left Coalition, Vassilios Vassiliou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "National Book Policy". Sir, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u20	In 2013, the Government of Samaras, in the context of the fiscal consolidation of the Ministry of Culture, decided to abolish the National Book Centre, CSRBI, so that our country loses a national book policy. The government of SYRIZA acknowledging the need to draw up a single policy for the book launched an effort to re-establish the ERCEA as a Book and Culture Agency, seeking to restore the book again to the centre of cultural action in Greece. The new organization provides for organised regional policy to highlight the importance and role of the book in an effort to enhance the readability and international visibility of the Greek book. Re-establishment of the Book and Culture Agency will re-establish the foundations for a lasting dialogue between Greek and foreign creators through the establishment of a platform in which foreign publishers can identify translated book samples to choose what they like most by promoting not only the cooperation but also the interaction of international literary trends and streams. However, the Minister has not shown the intention of using the ready draft law to set up the Book Organisation, especially in her speech at the 48th Book Festival that said nothing about the development of the book in our country. In view of the above, is the Minister asking: What are the intentions of the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture regarding the promotion of Greek book production? What he intends to do about the implementation of the single book policy and whether he intends to vote for the National Representation the bill he has completed and the consultation stage by the SYRIZA Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much Mr Vassilis Vassilis. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Mendoni. Minister, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I should like to say that I am very pleased that Mr Vassiliou, a scholar, has asked me a question on the policy of my own book, a writer, who has grown up with the works of my own generation. The truth, however, is that of the four ministers of the SYRIZA government, no one submitted a comprehensive policy proposal for the book. Mrs Zorba at the end of the government term, five months before the end of the four-year period, on 29 March this year, held a public consultation on the draft law establishing the new body of the Book and Culture Agency, which she has never asked for the views of the Ministry's Directorate responsible. It wasn't mandatory. She didn't ask for them. What did the draft law provide for? It provided for the creation of a stiff, multitude, costless organization, dubious efficiency, which did little to ensure that the issues involved in the book were effectively addressed. Indicatively, of the many things, I mention that it provided for in addition to the seven paid management board - to note that the administrative boards of the Ministry of Culture were not paid - there were thirty-five permanent staff and the possibility of recruiting contractors. Second point. The job profiles did not provide for professional experience and previous employment in order to ensure the scientific competence of staff. There's a lot more. It has been shown that these shapes do not cure the wounds of the space nor solve the real problems that the business branches associated with the book are really facing. They serve other purposes and purposes. Today, in these two months, the Ministry of Education has developed a strategy for the book which will soon be presented to its full extent. I'm reporting characteristics: Coordination of the competent state structures. Book policy cannot be independent of libraries, which are the subject of the Ministry of Education or municipal libraries, whose responsibility the municipalities are responsible. These issues are in no way dealt with in the draft legislation. Coordination of individual themes, grants, reports, electronic libraries and platforms, such as ‘BIBLIONET’, ‘OSDELNET’, EEE, in the context of a single management of the book. The development of monitoring indicators for the implementation, effectiveness, and efficiency of the book actions, their resonance on the public, the signatures of contracts for the purchase of intellectual rights by Greek persons from foreign educational institutions, in order to allow for recognition of the problems and the positive elements leading to documented policies, such as the subsidisation of translations of selected titles. Establish a comprehensive extrovert program for the Greek book. Special attention to the children's book. Protection of the creator industry in the level of copyright and the creation of development incentives. Cooperation with the private sector to support the book and develop mixed funding and programme schemes. In conclusion, the creation of a new entity is not excluded from a priori. We believe that it would be positive to create a new body as an operational arm that would coordinate the individual actions of the state structures and would be in direct cooperation with all the categories of professionals in the book market, namely, a body with very different characteristics from those provided for in the previous government's draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u23	Thank you too, Minister. Mr. Vassilikos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u24	I, Minister, disagree with your view that this is not our bill very well studied and structured. But, I would like to ask you: is yours - which you want to bring - what will it include? If you can answer that question. And when will it be submitted in consultation so that the creators can also present their views? And when are you going to submit it to the House? That is what counts for me is - if you disagree with our bill, which I find to be excellent, and you do not want to adopt - what you will then do. If you're kind enough to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much. As I have already said, it is clear that we do not renounce the possibility of establishing a new body for the book. However, this will result from a consultation cycle, which we have already started these two and a half months in the Ministry of Culture, with the people of the book, who, in the vast majority of them, are not entirely in agreement, Mr Vassilis - with all due respect for your view - that the bill submitted was very well thought out. We have specific reactions and negative comments from many institutions. Now, I'll tell you what ours will include. First of all, as I have said, in a relatively short time we will submit and publish our policy on the book in general. It is clear that once we have come up with a new body, there will be time for consultation to be given so that all concerned can present their views. I would, however, like to share with you - and I think we will not disagree with some points that the book and culture organization seem to have left at all - that the aim of a book organisation is not simply to raise, for example, the consumer public to buy occasionally or systematically more books, but is to improve the educational level of people. And where does this start, Monsieur Vasilica? This will begin - you probably know better than me - from the school years, from the student's contact with the library, from the contact that this new book will impose, from the relationship of the young man, the child, with the libraries. For all these things, in order for the young man to understand that it does not just matter to read books, but to read the quality books, the things that will shape his character and his level, he does not say anything at all about the draft law. He doesn't say anything about linking the libraries. It simply lists individual objectives, which anyway and regardless of the body, the competent department of the Ministry of Culture could and could do. The new visionary body is the body that will coordinate all the issues relating to all the state structures for the book. Only then will we be able to talk about a truly national policy body. Because, after all, the abolition of the CSRBI was not an arbitrary choice of the government at the time. It was an option, which was unfortunately dictated by the pathogens and malfunctions of the then CSR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mrs. Mendoni. And we move to the second with number 21/19-9-2019 a top-level question for the first-round question of Corfu MP of the Change Movement Mr.Dimitrios Biagis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Financial Support for the Philharmonic Music Schools of Corfu". Mr. Biagis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Corfu, the island of the philharmonics, Corfu, the island of tourism, culture, music, I assure you that you will continue to have it at the centre of your ministry. It will be in front of you all the time, because of the many problems that your government has to deal with and your government must fall to resolve them. Over the last decade, Minister, no government has been leaning on the important problems of the island and especially of culture, which have been ponded and which have been called upon to bend over and given solutions. Madam Minister, I have not chosen to speak to you either about the fortresses of Corfu or about Achilles, known to everyone and whose situation inside and outside is tragic, nor about the 10 euros that each visitor needs, and even the natives will pay to visit it. I have chosen my first time question to you to have young people, to have the young people of the island, the generation of our live, our active youth, who, in their free time, are involved in music education and culture. Minister, it may be a global phenomenon on one island of tens of thousands of inhabitants: eighteen philharmonics: three philharmonics in the city of Corfu and fifteen in the surroundings. There are four thousand musicians inside and outside Corfu. And I say four thousand musicians inside and outside Corfu, for the simple reason that a large number of musicians from Corfu' philharmonics are currently operating musical bodies throughout Greece: in the Lyric scene, in the State Orchestra, in the ERT and in many other bodies. All I can report to you with great confidence and confidence from a very serious study is that the three Philharmonics at the moment of Corfu deliver free music to eight hundred children. Only the three philharmonics of Corfu! It's evidence that your department is called upon to take into account. The project on the island of Corfu is self-financed. No financial assistance and no support shall be provided by any body. In particular, they do not have any sources of funding, except for the regular contributions of their members, grants and donations, which, due to the latest tax draft, do not like, so they do not. The majority of children's music teachers are of university education. It is worth telling you that these teachers' salaries amount to EUR 150 to EUR 250 a month, just to offer these teachers the maximum objective of culture. There is no source of funding for the huge work that is being done. I will say to you quite typically about operating expenses, rents, expenses, buildings maintenance, the maintenance of musical instruments, the maintenance of uniforms, their purchases, the purchases of musical instruments, and the remuneration of these teachers who have told you that they amount to EUR 150 to 250. So I ask you, Minister, what is your Ministry's plan to support this effort? Is there any financing plan and if so? Are you going to reinforce Corfu's philharmonics from your Ministry's regular budget? Do you intend to allow them to join different national or European programmes? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, too. The Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Mendoni, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ephremidis, you are right, in terms of size, to the quality of Corfu's cultural stock. Of course, I will not agree with you that the last governments have not dealt with Corfu. At least in the period 2010-2014, financing through the Community framework, mainly, but also from national resources amounted to almost EUR 20 million. For Achilles, which you are affected, Achilles is of course a monument, but it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Tourism. Now, let's go to the philharmonics thing. I'd say you're trying to break open doors. The Ministry of Culture fully acknowledges the special value and tradition of the musical schools of Corfu, their contribution to the development of music education in maintaining the island's special music tradition, as well as to strengthening social links and reasoning. For this reason, on my very recent visit to Corfu, on 11 August, I visited the two oldest philharmonics, "Palesia" and "Manjaro". In my next visit to Corfu, at the end of October, I plan a meeting with all the representatives of the philharmonics, precisely to coordinate our actions. One of these - which is not directly related to funding, but is extremely important - is to explore the interest of the communities so that the responsible directorate of the Modern Cultural Heritage of the Ministry of Culture coordinates the process of forming a dossier, so that the value and tradition of the philharmonic schools of Corfu are entered in the national index of intangible cultural heritage. Since the philharmonics want it - because it is obvious that there must be their consent - the process can be initiated immediately. This means that philharmonics acquire certification, clearly and internationally accepted importance, tradition and work, while at the same time creating the conditions so that support from the public sector is more imperative. Since, in the current programming period 2014-2020, the Ministry of Culture has no separate operational programme, nor resources through allocations of other operational programmes can be financed from own Community resources, as happened between 2007 and 2013. For funding from the current NSRF, philharmonics can use targeted invitations from the Ionian Islands Region to enhance contemporary creation. There is now an invitation to 'Ion 81', for example, to strengthen the transnational culture. Therefore, the philharmonics can meet their needs through this programme. At the same time, the Ministry of Culture could help philharmonics, depending on their legal form, in order to examine their ability to participate in calls for support for micro and small enterprises from the operational programme of the EMEA. From the regular budget, the Ministry of Education you know that it finances cultural institutions through the register of cultural institutions. Funding shall, on the one hand, require the operator to register in the register and, on the other hand, when the invitation is issued, submit a request for financial aid. None of the philharmonics of Corfu until today has been registered in the register of cultural institutions. So that the Ministry of Culture can finance the philharmonics, it is their registration condition. If they are interested, we would be very positive to see the issue of a specific call for funding for philosophicals at ground level, with themes, such as the recording of the role and history of philharmonics, their contribution to the development of philosophicals and culture, the support of similar publishing efforts, the maintenance and exploitation of archives - valuable archives of philharmonics - valuable manuscripts and old instruments, the development of their educational actions and their exploitation as a means of social cohesion and development of music, social and other skills for the new generation. It is clear from the above that the Government and the Ministry of Culture clearly intends to strengthen and promote the work of the philharmonics, which, in particular, as you said, is based on the volunteers' contribution and private initiative. This model is compatible with our own strategic choices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much to the Minister. Mr. Biagi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President, and I will be as brief as possible. Madam Minister, speaking of Achilles, I knew it was not your responsibility, but abused, if you like, and Mr Consola's presence, I thought it should be heard. It is a tragic, if you like, picture of our tourism product, but it does not honor us either as a state or as an island of Corfu. By entering my question, I would like to thank you for your answer. I very much appreciate the fact that you are disgusting your needs, apparently, and you are fully aware of the role these philharmonic schools perform on our island. Let me just say that in the last decade very little efforts have been made. The latest efforts made by the central state - and it is good to mention them for memory - are from the late Constantine Mitsotakis, who financed the philharmonics with 150,000,000 drachmas and the commitment given by today's Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, visiting "Palaiya", as you said very well, were that it would fall over their problem, that it truly respects and appreciates their work, and that it will help them, which is something that you have seen today. What I would just like to stress and say to you, Minister, is that the philharmonics are doing a work: on the one hand, they teach our children music and, on the other hand, they are forming their characters, helping socialism, teaching culture and aiming at rejuvenating the morals of our children. I would also like to add and mention that most young people during the learning of any musical instrument and of any activity do not develop competitive features. In the case of philharmonics, due to the musical education offered by teachers to young people, there is absolute respect among students and then among musicians. Their behaviour is exemplary, which further strengthens the project for the production of culture and values. The philharmonic schools of Corfu are not just musical schools. It's in a broad perception of lifestyle. The Greek state alone, as I told you, only in the specific cases had financed it, ever. I conclude with the following questions: Do you intend to propose to the Minister of Finance, in addition to others, Minister, if that possibility is available, the release of taxes and, in particular, charges that are currently beating the philharmonics in order to strengthen them in every way? The philharmonic schools for us Corfus are a point of reference and broader support for the production of culture and values. To a group of people who are snuggling from life and who are fighting and conquering new horizons, will you find yourself sick, Madam Minister? Will these children, our children, their young children and their teachers feel the love and interest of the central authority? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I believe that, from what I have already said in my prototype, it is clear that the Government and the Ministry of Culture want to fully support and strengthen their philharmonic, particularly their educational action, their educational dimension, not just because music helps the social cohesion, the skills of young people, but because the philharmonics, especially for Corfu and the Istanbul, have a heavy role through which the new generation realises the enormous tradition of which it is itself. So young children have to understand - and this is what we need to help them - the value of their own identity, their own music tradition. From there on, you put the fact that Constantine Mitsotakis was the one who financed philharmonics several years ago. The Prime Minister has in fact made an undertaking to support them. That was the meaning of my position today, obviously in consultation with him. The aim is at the end of the month, by going to Corfu with my colleagues, to see the people of the Philharmonics, to capture their problems and from there on, to see how the Ministry of Culture could really formulate a proposal to the Minister of Finance, which I obviously cannot commit, because there are too many parameters to be taken into account. What I can tell you as the Ministry of Culture is that we will fully support the action of the philharmonics. In fact, what we are interested in is the development of programmes for the promotion and promotion of philharmonics outside the Istanbul. In other words, we would be absolutely interested in building with them and supporting a tour programme in Greece and abroad, perhaps, but at home, perhaps, which encourages the action of the philosophers in the public space, particularly in areas such as schools, hospitals, various institutions, assuming that their work is being strengthened in this way and that they are also being taught by non-Governmentians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u35	We thank the Minister, too. Thank you, Mr. Biagi. And now we move to the first with number 25/23-9-2019, a topical question for the second question by MP Kilkis of the Change Movement Mr.Georgios Frangidis to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Serious turbulence to Greek tourism since the bankruptcy of the travel agency "THOMAS COOK". Here, Mr. Francis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we're living a difficult time. The unexpected bankruptcy of "THOMAS COOK", which is one of the largest tourism companies, I think will change the global map of tourism. This is a large-scale phenomenon, which, of course, we cannot identify its size now, but I think every day we will be closer to assessing the impact. In Greece, because we all know that tourism is the steam engine and the largest export sector in the economy, the shocks from this bankruptcy will certainly affect both growth and employment and the functioning of the market and the banking system and social cohesion. After all, we know that in Greece GDP revenues are about 20.6% from tourism, while worldwide it is just over 10% and in Europe it is about 2.5%. That is why our party has tabled a request for the immediate convening of the Parliament's Committee on Production and Trade with the invitation of all the relevant ministries to discuss this burning issue. Of course, the question of the repatriation of about fifty thousand tourists who are in Greece is one of state coordination and solidarity from hotel owners to deal with this situation. That is also the first part of my question, Minister. What are the government's measures to assist and support visitors who remain in our country pending their repatriation? As far as the second part is concerned, the consequences of the bankruptcy of "THOMAS COOK" in our economy should be said to be about three million tourists in Greece. Until now, until the days of bankruptcy, he moved a million three hundred and fifty thousand, of which one million in packages and about three hundred and fifty thousand in air arrivals. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is also directly activated in nine hotels, I mean its own employment exclusively, with franchise in thirty-nine and the collaborations it has in Greece are estimated to be with over six hundred hotels. He had also planned an investment of about EUR 150,000,000 for the acquisition of hotel units, for the construction of new ones and for the renovation of existing ones. And we know very well that in Crete, in Rhodes, in Kos, in Skiathos, in Corfu, in Zakynthos - these are the areas that are facing the biggest problem - we also have a problem with the employees of THOMAS COOK, which is estimated at seven hundred in the sector in Greece, but according to the federation of employees in food and tourism, as well as workers in other services, can reach the thousands of six hundred with seven hundred. The Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises states that the damage can reach about EUR 500,000,000 and the year, with the cancellations of contracts, in 2020 can exceed EUR 1 billion, when the other arms of "THOMAS COOK" in Germany, France, Poland, Austria, Belgium and the Netherlands collapsed. Also, to mention that there were many planes. There was an airline of ‘THOMAS COOK’, which operated charter flights. Finally, a significant part of the company's expenses to hoteliers for this year's season remains uncovered and the compensation procedure is time-consuming. On this basis - is the second question - what is your assessment of the impact of bankruptcy on the revenues of the Greek tourism sector and what is the plan to address the negative effects on Greek tourism? Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much Mr. Francis. The Deputy Minister of Tourism, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, will answer. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with great interest, Mr Francis, we are approaching your very important question. And I would like to begin by expressing my satisfaction at opening this matter to the National Representation, since colleagues from all the parties in the Ministry of Tourism met with us to be informed. I thank them very much for showing a real interest in tourism that has national characteristics. I would also like to express my satisfaction at Mr Biagi's question. Previously, he said that culture and tourism are two very important portfolios that contribute to the gross domestic product and that, from this step, we are working together with Mrs Méndonis to Corfu, at this very important tourist destination, to highlight what is needed to ensure that there is a sustainable policy in tourism as well. That is why a visit will be followed by the leadership of the Ministry of Tourism in Corfu during the next period and we are working with the region and the MP, Mr. Gikas, for this visit. Also, the Ministry of Tourism has recently been going very well throughout the country, since Greece is a global tourist destination and we should finally capture in the Ministry's strategic plan this moto, which has recently emerged from many social partners, that Greece is a multicentre of development for tourism. Now, with regard to Mr Frangidis' question, you have quite rightly approached all the issues and I would like to confirm that this sudden collapse of the most important tourist agency in the world, 'Thomas COOK', also creates multiple turbulences in the country's economy. Moreover, it is a global organisation which in recent years has not shown itself to reach this point, since, as you have said, there has been a continuous expansion activity in terms of its corporate structure. I would also like to stress that as far as the fifty thousand visitors you have said in your prototype are concerned, they are indeed in a process of return and repatriation, with various airlines in the world, from thirteen destinations that have now been captured by the regional tourism services of the Ministry of Tourism in the country. I repeat, therefore, that there is a process of repatriation of this large volume of visitors brought by "THOMAS COOK" in the country from thirteen destinations, safely, free of cost, and even where the Ministry was required to help through regional tourism services and the regions of the country, has been given the full range and length of assistance. However, I would like to say - and I do not need to go into detail, but only to say to you - that this refund will be completed on 4 October. For example, in the southern Aegean, for example, six thousand nine hundred thirty-one to date and some nine hundred and fifty-eight to the last day of return were left. As you can see, there are procedures under way. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I would like to inform you that since the first day, at 6.00 hours in the morning that this crisis has erupted since the collapse, the Ministry of Tourism as a whole, the leadership and the officials, at an extraordinary convening, has drawn up an operational plan to deal with these problems and is still in the process until this process is completed. From the first moment we have called on the representatives of the social partners and the tourists to work with us in order to deal with these problems. And I want publicly to thank them. As I would like to thank the people of tourism who have been standing up in the prolonged crisis and have made the maximum contribution to the gross domestic product, getting the country to overcome the crisis and to optimise the future. After all, our first concern is that of the employees of the company - you said, too - who are over a thousand workers, who are in the forty-eight monocultured hotels in the country, workers in other small and large enterprises working indirectly or directly with this big agency. We have therefore turned our attention to the workers - and I shall have the opportunity in my dentext to make further points on government policy - and I will briefly tell you that we have given the opportunity, as far as job subsidisation is concerned, to maintain jobs and affected enterprises which are currently under way by the Ministry of Labour and the Labour Force Agency. The Ministry of Labour tomorrow will announce an overall plan for dealing with workers. The second is the reduction in the number of offspring for unemployment from a hundred to eighty, so that other workers, who were unable to do so because of the collapse of the agency, could also be included. We also extend the time to pay unemployment benefit by one month. And in this context, I would like to believe that until the normality of the market comes back, which is the goal for the new 2020 season, we will have launched more and more, as well as identifying you with your agony, but also with the anguish of the collective organs of the workers. Now, as far as businesses are concerned, we have launched - I repeat - the suspension for six months of the deadline for payment of VAT in proportion to the proportion of the turnover each company had with the bankrupt company. I would like to point out to this that the suspension applies to enterprises that had inputs and outputs from 25% of their turnover from this agency. The suspension shall also apply until 31 March 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u39	Please complete, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u40	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would also like to stress that the Ministry of Finance has launched the residence tax for the period of the season. In addition, with regard to the revision of the conditions for granting and paying back the companies borrowed by the entrepreneurship fund, we are in consultation with the co-operating banks to help people in the market. And I come to something last. Let me tell you that it was decided by the government to speed up the assessment of the business plans affected by the crisis so that they could immediately regain their potential in the run-up to the new season, but also in the general sense of tourism. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Francis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister. Let me say that, of course, the measures announced after many meetings by the government are moving in the right direction, the measures through the OAED and the reduction of VAT. But let me say that they do not give the impression that they are an organised plan to tackle the problem. We are essentially talking about a bomb, Mr Minister, which exploded here in Greece and with a lot of domino threatening our country's economy. Hotels working with "THOMAS COOK" are forced to close sooner, that is to say, finish the season earlier and thousands of jobs are lost. This is a direct impact. However, many other companies and sectors directly or indirectly linked to the tourism sector are negatively affected. Like car rentals, rented rooms, transportation, catering, tours, entertainment and much more. In other words, a large gap is created in the tourist market from the cancellations of the next season. New markets and cooperation should be sought immediately in order to mitigate the cost of cancellations. In other words, the need to operate a crisis mechanism that will allow the government to appear more reflexiously, I think it is more than obvious. It is obvious that the need for this thing to do so by every ministry in its area, so that it can easily and quickly deal with such crises. The Minister for Tourism on July 25th had a meeting with the CEO of "THOMAS COOK" and I imagine that they discussed the events as well as the situation in which the company exists. And it turns out, since nothing else has been stated, the assurance was that everything is going well. So are there no mechanisms for controlling the real situation in which companies in Greece are located, whether foreign or Greek, in order to avoid such unpleasant and unexpected developments? I also wonder whether the assets of "THOMAS COOK" in our country have been recorded and whether they are going to be operating during the liquidation. As far as the EOT is concerned, what action will it take, Mr Minister, to promote the Greek tourism product on the one hand, but also to cover, as far as possible, the gap created in the tourism market from the cancellations of the current and next season? How quickly can they be replaced and how will existing exclusive contracts be replaced? Are you working as a Ministry with other European countries to deal with the problem? What incentives for new investments will the government give in the next period? Is it going to be a substantial hand in helping enterprises and workers tested, but, at the same time, cultivating a climate of confidence in future investors? Is there a plan for rehabilitating those who are unemployed? Of course, as far as businesses are concerned, what is the amount of loans from companies that can be redundant? It is true that we would expect a faster response to the problem by the government to proceed more drastically with measures to address the problem. We hope that, as many times in our country, the intentions which have been announced instead of real measures to facilitate investment, tax relief and the financial support of businesses, will not remain intent and work out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much Mr. Francis. Mr. Consolas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u44	Mr Fragidis, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that, as a representative of the Kilkis society, a very important region in the country that is not an extreme tourist, you are coming here today and you are asking a very important question. This is an answer to the fact that for the whole territory the tourism economy is very important. I would really like to thank you, because that is a reason to promote dialogue. The debate on tourism, on the tourism economy, is very important, as well as very important for us, beyond criticism, is the proposals to integrate them into the government plan, a government plan that also concerns tourism. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] I would like to remind you of the interest of the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis. In cooperation with the head of the Ministry of Tourism, he announced the strategic plan for tourism that goes beyond the limits of the term of office of a government, which never existed in the past. I should also like to stress that a strategic plan is needed, including possible parameters relating to the collapse of this agency. With regard to your specific reference to the consequences and criticisms of the government's lack of direct reflexes, I must tell you that the Government was directly reflexing. I said earlier that since 6.00 pm last Monday we were at the Ministry and a council was convened to deal directly with these problems. This is clear because we have worked with the social partners, but there has also been a ministerial meeting to deal with these issues. It will also be followed by a communication from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour on the subsequent parameters to compile an overall approach to this issue. But let me say from the Stepma to you - you all know - that the Institute of Tourism Research at the Greek Chamber of Hotels, which is the advisor of the State and adviser to the Ministry of Tourism, is in an evolutionary process to submit information - we are informed that tomorrow, tomorrow, it will be deposited in total - both in the tourist economy and in the affected businesses and in total in addition to the other businesses, as well as in the hotel that have been affected. Let me therefore, if we have this information to announce in total these measures relating to the crack created by the collapse of this agency. I would also like to remind you that these problems of 'THOMAS COOK' may not have begun today. I told you that there was an attempt by the company to establish partnerships with other related companies around the world in order to strengthen its share capital and move forward, something that its representative submitted at the meeting with Mr Theocharis last month. There he assured the company's efforts to continue this dynamic course on the tourism stock market. The previous government has dealt with the same. I would like to remind you, with regard to the company's support in previous years, that the previous government in 2015 submitted EUR 400,000 to support the promotion of the Greek product, in 2016 EUR 632,000, in 2017 EUR 1083,000, in 2018 EUR 1,170,000, i.e. a total of EUR 3,285,000. In March 2019, a new contract had been concluded with the company of EUR 1,426 000 and we immediately, with the announcement of the crisis on Monday, terminated the cooperation agreement and did not pay a single euro. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, not because there is no need to support destinations through companies as large as 'THOMAS COOK', but the reflexes of the government are also shown to be immediate and important here. I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Frangidi, that we are continuing this course, and indeed the EOT, the whole EOT leadership and the Ministry's leadership, has studied this crisis for the rest of the season, promoting the product at many destinations of Europe and the world. We are particularly interested in 2020 in being consistent with the needs of the market, as you have tabled. I would also like to remind you that for us the agony is primarily for the workers and, secondly, for the businesses and people of tourism who have supported all these years the issues of the tourism economy. These issues are complex. I would like to put forward the need to focus on a business reinsurance culture - and this is what the Ministry of Tourism is studying with the relevant ministries - so that in a possible secondary crisis that will result in us being ready even to deal with this as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The debate will be held on the number 1/1/24-9-2019 of Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left, Mr.Nikolaou Papa, Dimitrios Janakopoulou, Marios Katsis, Alexiadis, Georgios Tsipras, Ioannis Bournou, Elissavet Skourfas, Olga Gerovasi, Alexandros Flabouraris, Socrates Famelou, Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriaki, Spyridonas Lap, Nektariou Santorini, Stavros Arahovitis, Alexandros (Alexis) Charissiou, Aktoriki Panaghiou, Akolousiasou, Akritou, Akolikios Kostou, Akonikios, Akronis (Charastanisiasias), Akolikios, Akolakis, Akonikios, Akonikios, A. The speech is the first questioner, MP B3 of the Athens Coalition, Mr Nikolaos Papapas for 10 minutes. As I will announce anyone I will call on the Stepma, you know that I will mention the time of dentistry, because many colleagues may want to take the time of their dentistry into protology, as always. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. To begin with, I would like to say that today is a very good day for our national interests, because the North Macedonia Air Force Police Agreement has been signed by the Hellenic Air Force, as part of the implementation of the Prespecies Agreement. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of course, we have this misfortune to be absolutely empty. I think that we do not start parliamentary control, as we do not start well - Mr President, let me say this - in the absence of Mr Georgiadis and Mr Stagira. We sincerely hope that they have taken the Prime Minister's leave to be absent, not that the licensed other factors were concerned, and that they would not be present at the House's Step to respond. We sincerely hope so. We do not think that it is a good signal for the right-wing party to have this type of care, because this is not a picture of a majority, from a hundred to fifty-eight Members to three in your seat. What are you afraid of?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u48	Four!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u49	Four! Excuse me. You're four. More are from the Greek Solution. More are from the Greek Solution and of course Mera25 is also present. This is not a picture, however, of a majority. I think it took only two and a half months for the whole world to understand what new normality means, a normality which certain business actors praised as such, an allegedly sociality where the players themselves are favouring the choices. Our governance has attempted very seriously to put order in both media and football. In the media area ERT reopened. She reoperated on her own radio network. You remember that it had shut down - oh, the miracle - and you remember what proportions, Mr Pecha, there are every time something hot comes out of the market. ERT sleeps with your own governance or dies, as was done with the contest for the digital network provider. So the ERT was back on its feet with our own governance. You told us the bill was not coming out. She stood up and increased her channels. We didn't increase the reward fee. It has improved its programme, it has its own network, and of course has proceeded with hybrid television and new technologies. It comes first, built the ERT SPORTS channel and covered the white areas. On the press site we created the provincial press online record, the online media record. We have put in place press support measures of EUR 16 million, for newspapers too. Of course, television licences have been granted for these days, and the meetings are inextricably vague. Imagine what anger the current Prime Minister would be in this Chamber if he were to come up with this step and say exactly what he said when we discussed the issue of permits. He said that the permits must be sixteen or twenty-four. Can you make a picture of this, Mr. Petsa, that is, Mr. Mitsotakis in this one? The Step says exactly the same thing as he was saying as Chief of Officer Opposition? And what we had not heard in this process. The permits were therefore granted. It will provide EUR 210 million for the Greek State and EUR 150 million for the advertising tax and for frequency charges. Of course, we also have predictions - which have never been passed by your mind, the years you have governed - that is to say, that there should be conditions for the minimum employment of workers on the basis of their collective agreements, four hundred per channel. Of course, we have also supported audiovisual productions. That was our normality, and that normality was annoyed and annoyed. Now, to move on, there is a process that the government seems to be watching as a passive spectator. We don't want to think he's a applause too. We would sincerely like to assume that you are simply afflicted with this development and that you are not applauding it. It is a triple challenge what is evident to be done. The acquisition of the satellite platform ‘NOVA’ and of the company ‘FORTHNET’, which has telecommunications infrastructure from Mr Marinaki’s ‘ALTER EGO’. It is a challenge, because the publications speak of a huge haircut of large loans by 85%. When did this happen in Greece and we didn't find out? Will 85% of the banks that have been recapitalised by Greek taxpayers' money? Really? And don't tell us that you have provision for the rescue of jobs, because this businessman bought "FM' and closed it and bought "TSE" and made redundancies. These are not the priorities that recent history has shown, and I would ask you if you had this argument in mind to use it, at least to measure it. Does anyone think of this as well: Does the rumours that thicken up the use of part of the EUR 9 billion pillow reserve for banks have something to do with chains of this type? The sweat and trouble of the Greek people, therefore, are not tax exemptions, no tax reliefs are made, no public spending is being paid, but there is a haircut for loans for specific interests that you want to ignore. To understand what we're talking about, there's the possibility that if this story is completed, a football team will control the funds of all the other groups, so simple. The revenues of the Super League teams are 80% -90% revenues from television rights. People are listening. Do you understand what's going on? The Panathinaikos fund will be controlled by Olympiacos. AEK's fund will be controlled by Olympiacos...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u50	PAOK?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u51	PAOK has made other choices. Panionios, Fearless, etc. All these teams will expect the owner of the satellite platform, who are at the same time the owner of a competitive ODP, to be tied to when they will be paid. And you sit there looking at them? We in the press have sent four letters. Speech, Mr Drasakis as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Development, Mr Leuteris Kretsos as Deputy Minister of Digital Policy and Mr Papadimitriou formerly as Minister for Development. Will you ask the Competition Committee to intervene? Or are you going to make us believe that the decapitulation, against the Union law, of the Competition Committee was also involved in this case? It'll show up in the next few days. We are also telling the new leadership of the Competition Committee that it cannot pass the trains forward and whistle indifferently. He is obliged to intervene. And the law gives the Minister for Development the opportunity to ask the Competition Committee for an examination of the matter. Let's go down. Third strand of challenge. If this acquisition is completed, we will have a business group that controls both satellite platform and free reception and radio channel and I do not know how many sites. Aren't you concerned about this as a gathering in the press? You had washed us with all the cosmic surnames when we did the process of channel licensing, because we said that there can be no infinite licenses and you talked to us about 'excess concentration in the press'. And now we see a trend, a particular group collecting almost everything it flies, what it swims and what it walks and you sit down! The legal framework is sufficient to intervene, absolutely enough. Under Law 3959 you must take appropriate measures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Let me, Mr President, take some more time. The press has corresponding problems. We have the press agency, which is a monopoly. Competitive leaves belong to the same man, who distributes his own leaves and can manage them. We don't tell you anything prototype. It's been a bad mess with public intervention from other newspaper owners. So we're asking. Are you concerned about the convenience with which banks go to haircut 85% of the loans from FORTHNET - NOVA to complete this acquisition? Do you realize the conflict of interest that will arise? Will you ask the Competition Committee to intervene? Do you realize that holding the First National Championship will become a regular joke? Do you understand that? Are you going to intervene? We have taken important steps towards transparency. The number of groups has decreased. We brought the video assistant referee, the so-called VAR. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I would like to. You will, of course, ask what must be done. I told you at the beginning at the beginning it seems that at the critical moment you put the great giant called "public television" to sleep. So the ERT has a reserve of 200,000,000. You were telling us when we went to open it again, that it won't be enough. So proceed to a aggressive takeover of NOVA - FORTHNET through the ERT, that's what you do. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And not leave ERT as a sleeping giant. Why should the ERT 200,000,000 lake? Tell us why they are plundering and tracking the wholehearted one of their takeover bids, which will multiply distortions? Look, gentlemen, "berlusconism" is a phenomenon that some people once slowed to take. You take it earlier. You appointed the Director of the Press Office, Mr Mitsotakis, President of the ERT. Do not start here any reason for the Agency's independence! Well, at least tell your opinion. Should ERT intervene and proceed to a sound, emphatic start in this market? In conclusion, I would like to say something, because I am sure you are also observant and you see the political ambitions of some businessmen. You can't see them. In 1992, then, the Christian Republic in Italy had taken about 30%. In 1994 it did not come down to the elections. Berlusconi took 42% with his coalition. The Progressive Order did not pay it. The Progressive Order in 1992 had 17% and in 1994 it took 35%. So do your packages, because you are wrong, if you think that if you look elsewhere, these rapid developments will stop happening. We therefore expect your answers on what you will do with the Competition Committee, whether you will ask for intervention, and if, of course, you agree or disagree with the prospect that ERT will, in a dynamic way, proceed to the acquisition of this satellite platform.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. Mr Dimitrios Janakopoulos, MP for five minutes, has the floor. Your dentistry is three minutes of time. Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. The two present Ministers, I imagine, represent the rest. The government's attitude to this issue is uniform. I imagine they have consulted the Prime Minister as well and I do not know who else may have consulted before they come here to take their position on the questions raised. Ladies and gentlemen, it soon seemed that New Democracy's governance does not mean a return to normality. On the contrary, as we have said several times in this Chamber, the beginning of a period of institutional decline, degeneration, but also an attempt to complete control and manipulate the media, as well as the public sphere in general. Last occasion - and it is important to say this in this Chamber too - which is not at all irrelevant to everything we are discussing and we will be waiting with interest to hear the responses of the main ministers here today, it is the DOCUMENTO newspaper's extermination operation. I understand that perhaps Mr Petsas does not really like what the paper 'DOCUMENTO' says. They may not like Mr. Mitsotakis either. It's understandable. But here, I think that the extermination operation which is being organized by the government, especially by Mr Mitsotakis and the leading group, which he has gathered around, is nothing but proof that here we are dealing with something much greater than the discomfort some may feel by reading 'DOCUMENTO' or by reading what he says. We have a concrete plan to eliminate all different voices, but also a plan which I very much fear is being drawn up by the government and carried out by business centres to control the press. But that's the good version. The bad idea is that it may also be the opposite, that is, it is not the government that is planning and the businessmen they are performing, but it is the businessmen who are planning and the government that they are performing. That is the bad scenario for the government, and I think it is reasonable to suspect us that this may be the case. It will, however, appear from the way the government moves and manage the case that we are discussing here today. Because the proposal tabled by Mr Marinakis' Alter EGO to buy up the percentage of FORTHNET, the percentage held by banks, seems to be precisely part of this single plan to establish a new full and complete public life control regime, a suffocating public life control. To thank your liberalism! I would like to remind the honourable ministers that here we have a series of specific entrepreneurial interests that precede this proposal. What do we got? First of all, a special situation which has been established in the press and especially in press distribution, because 'ARGOS', a unique press agency right now in the country, belongs to a publisher, Mr Marinakis. Therefore, the owner of the press distribution agency, the owner of the ‘ARGUS’, has the possibility of controlling all cashiers of competitive forms. And one wonders: are there no distortions of competition being created here? Don't we have an obvious case of conflict of interest here? And the same pattern is now going to be followed in the case of the acquisition of FORTHNET by Mr Marinakis, the Alter EGO, because there will be a clear conflict of interest here too. This is incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen. One owner of the PAI, Mr Marinakis, the owner of Olympiacos, buys FORTHNET and NOVA, which is owned by FORTHNET, and will become the verifier and manager of the cashiers of all the remaining PAIs, whose income depends exactly on the TV contracts of NOVA. This is the situation that we are going to face, and, as Mr Pappas said earlier, it sounds like a cut of 85% of the loans. Is this how the government wants to go through this new normality of the major investment explosion? To use the money recapitalised by Greek taxpayers to make haircuts to Mr Marinakis? And one wonders: does the government finally choose to clear half the Competition Committee twenty-fifth-fifth days ago to some extent - does a bad option ask - what we are watching happen in the field of press distribution, but what is likely to happen with regard to the acquisition of FORTHNET by Alter EGO? We are waiting, we are watching, we are pessimistic about how you will move, but at least respect the pretexts. Ask the Competition Committee whether or not this possible acquisition is compatible with the legal status of the country and the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u54	Mr Marios Katsis, Member of the Thesprotia, has the floor for five minutes plus three for the denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical question we are debating today seems to me to be extremely serious, but also extremely indicative of how the New Democracy Government means 'investments', 'free market' and 'competitive'. The imminent acquisition of "FORTHNET - NOVA" by the company "ALTER EGO" by Mr Marinakis, who is in privileged discussions, according to reports, but the way this acquisition is going to take place is not a mere commercial operation among individuals, it is much more. It concerns the economy, transparency, sport, the public interest and, ultimately, democracy itself. We have no confidence in the New Democracy Government, and we are really concerned that government initiatives are directly or indirectly involved in this transaction and we are concerned about what this transaction means to citizens. We don't want to make detectives or conspiracy agents, but here we have a sequence of events that eye out: Firstly, the replacement of Mrs Thanou by the Competition Committee before the end of her term and with ad hoc criteria. Secondly, the renegotiation of the television rights held by ERT groups in the summer, after you took over the country. Thirdly, the plan again revealed by Mr Papadimitriou, a member of the New Democracy, to get a hand in the 37 billion euro pillow and to be given to the banks for red loans. Fourthly, the acquisition of the "FORTHNET - NOVA" by the best-man of the Prime Minister's family and owner of Olympiacos PAE, Marinakis. They are, in our view, pieces of the same puzzle and are revealing the intentions of the Government of the New Democracy and the development model you are taking, that of the state-owned, parasitic and oligopolistic entrepreneurship. It is therefore planned to buy 'FORTHNET - NOVA' for 45m euros, at a simultaneous cut of 85% of the loans. Red loans from the 'NOVA' and 'FORTHNET' reach 320 million. Obviously, isn't it not that in such a case a black hole will be created in the banking system? Here, unviolently, a question arises: Do you really intend to use the money from the pillow there? To cover the holes that will arise in the banking system by providing big businessmen to accumulate? Why not cut red housing loans to our weakest fellow citizens who are unable to meet the obligations? Let's go down. It is well known that he owns Olympiacos PAE, Mr.Vangelis Marinakis and the acquisition of NOVA - FORTHNET by himself, a company that holds TV rights of many Super League football teams, creates de facto an issue of unfair competition. Think a little of what it means to the football product and the credibility of the championship, the same man who owns an OEM to control and where money will go through TV contracts toward competitive OEMs. "Yiannis buys and Yiannis drinks." Revenue from television contracts in many cases reached 80% of the revenue. Technically it means that whoever controls the fund controls the championship. And, of course, we must not forget that we are talking about the Greek football area an area that was just opened last Friday in the very spectacular trial of the racing scandal, involving actors, former executives of the OSH, former referees and football players. Did all the above, which fall into competition issues, lead you to target Mrs Thanos from the outset and you rushed to replace her with institutional acrobatics? And I now come to the main issue, by addressing Mr Petsa, the Minister for Public Television. With the good day of your election you have convened a meeting at the Maximos Mansion and with celebrations you have told us that you have broken the SYRIZA's out-of-real gold contracts for ERT's sports transmissions, proof of your - supposedly - interest in Greek taxpayers' money. But what did you do? ERT banned the two most commercial groups, Panathinaikos and Mars, the two most powerful brands, with millions of viewers and advertising revenues, to go to "NOVA", while you reduced 12% contracts to smaller groups and left them "hot" as well as Super League 2. In question, therefore, we asked you seventeen members of the SYRIZA, number 150/5-8-2019, you replied, Mr Minister, among other things, to us: 'The ERT has submitted new reduced offers and the environment has been created to the groups to submit proposals from the private television market'. I mean, you admitted it yourself. You gave two ERT branding groups to its competitor, NOVA, to raise the market value of Mr Marinakis. And where does it look like we're right and not you? It's just things. Based on the news reports, Panathinaikos from the 4.2 million ERT went to 5.5 million "NOVA" and Mars from the 2 million ERT, went to "NOVA", 7.5 million euros, that is, more than ERT gave them than before. In other words, Panathinaikos and Mars TV are profitable and efficient investment for NOVA, but you claim that for ERT, with a lesser contract, it was a loss-making investment. I mean, NOVA, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, In practice, you degrade the thematic content of the ERT by giving the best tracks to individuals. For the first time, Euro 2020 will not be broadcast by ERT, but by a competitive private channel, so that you can have it with everyone well. It should be noted that the money available to the teams by means of television contracts, some of which...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u56	Will you get your dentext, Mr. Katsis, or will you say the rest in dentext?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u57	No, I'm still using your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u58	I'll give you another minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u59	Of ERT's money, about 70% goes directly or indirectly back to the public. The ERT, however, called for the legality of both the tax and the insurance obligations of the PPPs to be respected. Let us see now, with the money of NOVA, will the OLAF pay their debts to IAS and insurance funds, or will they take their income to tax-free donations? Here we will be watching you. I'm hanging up. I'll say some parts of my speech in denology. It is a crucial issue that we are discussing today, because this is a phenomenon of Berlusconi, which threatens the very quality of democracy. You must therefore give clear answers, do not hide and finally recognise that this is a huge problem of conflict of interest, as a market participant controls its competitors' cashiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Floor Alexiadis has the floor from Piraeus II for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Petsa and Mr Papathanase on their upgrade. Right now, they're lifting the weight of four ministries and lifting the weight as your Undersecretary - Bravo! - to cover the reasonable absence of ministers. The question is: Why is the Minister of Finance not here? The biggest question is: why is the relevant Minister for Culture and Sport not here, which was just in the Chamber and answered timely questions? I don't have a question why the Change Movement isn't here. These issues are very clear and I have no such questions! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But let some people understand that. However, I come to the issue of the timely question. What is the point - because we hear and read too much - of our question? We read stuff this weekend. We hear a criticism that SYRIZA wants to close a business. We hear the criticism that SYRIZA is against entrepreneurship and all these destructive things that we have been hearing and reading lately. But what is the reality? What's really going on? We like SYRIZA, want healthy and not state-owned entrepreneurship. We like SYRIZA, want healthy competition without monopolistic situations and opacity. We, as SYRIZA, want to operate the banking system, with transparent criteria for everyone and not on the basis of government policy. That's what we want. That is why we are fighting politically and that is why we have tabled the question. Because we need answers. And I would ask you very much, Mr Secretary-General, to have the answers here today because they relate to the course of the Greek economy. We want answers first of all for the banks. In order for the citizens to understand - it has been said - I will repeat it. A company with about EUR 300 million in debt, according to the reports, will pay off its loans to sell EUR 45 million. He owes 300m euros and will sell 45m euros! First of all, that is very positive at first. It is very good that the banks proceed to such loan haircuts to alleviate the business, the citizens and all this disaster that has come to the country. It is very good because the economic crisis and the memoranda - which led to the PASOK and the New Democracy - led businesses to a suffocating situation, which we have made a great effort to overcome. The question, however, is: To the ordinary citizen with the housing loan, how much is going to be done? I'm not talking about 85% of you planning here. Is it gonna be 5%? For the small and medium-sized one who's mortgaged his home to get a business loan, how much haircut are you going to do? For the big businessman "THOMAS COOK" owes him, how much haircut are you going to do? Because he, for the invoices he has issued for June - July - August, has to pay VAT on invoices and has not received it. And the arrangement you brought for VAT, says that VAT is suspended and will be paid in March? Are tourists coming back, are these businessmen gonna make money, and they're gonna find money to pay in March? To them, how much haircut are you going to do? And since we're talking about the banks, it's a request, you're talking to the Prime Minister, you have contacts, make it clear to understand. Of the 37,000,000,000 euros you inherited from SYRIZA, who has done and created this pillow, this account for certain reasons and national and economic, how much will they go to banks to settle party loan debts to settle debts such as these here and other plans that we learn you have on your agenda and make sure that we are here to reveal and inform the Greek people? On the issue of the amount of money that the banks will have, because can someone listening to us say ‘EUR 250,000,000 now what is it, save a business? Banks will pay for it or anything else, to say the following. Banks when they have trouble forget that they are private businesses and that when they have profits they say "Let us be quiet about what we're going to do, don't interfere" and the banks what they're saying now, is that when we have problems, help us. I mentioned the EUR 250,000,000 when, to remind you of two comparable sums, EUR 150,000, 000 is the account created by SYRIZA and brought all the institutional framework to strengthen those citizens who cannot pay the dose for the first residence and we protect it from losing, EUR 150,000, 000 is the entire account for all citizens, and EUR 50,000,000, the heating allowance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance. In any case, two ministers will not speak, the Change Movement will not speak, so we will have fewer speakers. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u62	No, that's not the logic, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u63	You're absolutely right. A little tolerance...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u64	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u65	A little tolerance and I'm finishing up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u66	We are not netting out absenteeisms with present ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u67	Of course, there is no clearing in any case. As far as the issue of healthy competition is concerned, as it is now: we are not talking about a simple business case, because this group already has a dominant position in the press, in the football field. We are now aware of the concern of the New Democracy about methods in the Competition Committee. There are not only political responsibilities, there are responsibilities for abuse of power and breach of duty, and some people understand that, because those who are in public work in a specific legal framework. But do you want that entrepreneurship? You want this football? This scenery in the press would you like? We have no delusion as a SYRIZA about exactly what you want. We have known you for a long time and we know from a long time what the tactics of the New Democracy, the right-wing party, are on these issues. Fortunately, the citizens who voted for you recently understand every day that passes, the distance between your election fireworks and your government service. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u68	Let me inform Mr Alexiadis that Mr. Kegeroglu will speak. I'm just saying that to you, because you didn't see him here right now. It doesn't mean whoever's missing doesn't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u69	I was worried if anything happened to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u70	Are you worried? Well, I'm telling you so you don't worry. Mr. George Tsipras has the floor, with which we are from the same region, from the second West Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, I deserve more time!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u72	You'll have the tolerance for everyone. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, from 60% deinvestment that the Greek economy experienced in the catastrophic years 2010-2014, we spent the period 2016-2019, on the government of SYRIZA, at rates of foreign direct investment at a level not before memorials, but before a crisis, at the levels of 2006. We raised the direct foreign investment, the so-called FDIs, the Foreign Direct Investments. The Government of New Democracy is also seeking FDIs, except for it they have a very different content. It is not about Foreign Direct Investments but about Friends Direct Investments. It is not about direct foreign investment, it is about friends' investment and even worse, it may not even be about friends' investment, but it is about helping friends to invest. After the withdrawal of the two foreign colossals from the investment scheme in the Greek economy, which only leaves the investors of LAMDA DEVELOPMENT - another great success of the New Democracy with the good morning in the government, which if it had happened before 7 July, there is no doubt that we would have vulgar titles, such as 'Remove foreign investors from Greece' - today we have new worrying developments in the field of pay-TV 'NOVA' and 'FORTHNET'. Does the government consider that, next to the regime, where the monopoly agency ‘ARGOS’ is controlled by the same big businessman who controls a large part of the press and media, a regime controlled by the Competition Committee until its composition is changed in unprecedented procedures, that there is still a distortion of competition with the control of pay-TV and television rights purchased by sports clubs, by the same big businessman in a particular sport group, the same big businessman who dominates in the press? In all developed countries, both in Europe and in North America, distortion of competition is a major issue and there is control, where the trend today internationally says to strengthen institutions. In the United States of Trump, recently, in September, on 'GOOGLE', 'AMAZON', 'FACEBOOK' and 'APPLE', it was decided to launch an investigation on this subject by the Federal Trade Committee, something similar to our committee, but also by the Ministry of Justice, and you may remember that in the early 2000s, a colossus like 'MICROSOFT', was forced to accept critical changes in its products in order not to undergo fines. The issues on which all these companies were being prosecuted were bits in front of the issues that we are currently facing in the press and perhaps tomorrow's football and television rights. And the question is: there is institutional control, here we are changing the Competition Committee. Are you going to do something about this, or have you just changed the Competition Committee? We are told that the possible agreement between Alter EGO, Mr Marinakis' interests, relates to a very large, generous 'FORTHNET debt haircut' to the banks, which may exceed the annual grant for the protection of the first place for hundreds of thousands of debtors. Is that true? There have been many cases of rescue of firms in difficulty during our governance, which have involved an agreement with banks, as with the Greek State, the insurance funds, etc. In no case has there been any mention of excessive haircut for banks, much more of a debt cut for the public and insurance funds. Is there any discrimination from the banks in the possible agreement with Alter EGO? The government has to answer. We cannot deal with hundreds of thousands of small owners with the dropper, and the market is strangled by a lack of funding, and in this case we have a generous, unprecedented haircut, where the price offered is probably in one, one and a half times the EBITDA of the profitable "NOVA". The government has to answer these questions and do the basics. As far as the competition issue is concerned, you are going to sell earlier on 'OLYMPIAKI', which I would remind you of and point out that in the long term we had the replacement of a State monopoly by a private monopoly. You are rejoicing for selling later OTE, along with the ancestors of the Change Movement, despite the fact that we also had the creation of a monopolistic situation, and today we have the highest cost of telecommunications throughout the European Union of '28'. And the question is: Of what will probably be done by today's negotiations, will this monopolistic situation be strengthened, or will it retreat? Finally, in all cases of our business rescues - and that was not very few - in the last four and a half years, our primary concern was with businesses to save jobs. The question is: Does the government commit the future of workers at FORTHNET? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u74	We thank Mr Georgios Tsipras, who did not accept the tolerance of time and ended in time. We continue with Mr Ioannis Burnos, Member of the Lesvos, who has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, your extreme right-wing idealism and your unprecedented administrative inability plunge both Moria's FMD, refugees and immigrants, as well as my country, Mytilini and the local population in chaos, darkness and destruction, but we will discuss these as we should and not here. I could not, of course, sing after the tragic, yesterday's events. As a government in SYRIZA, we have made an overall effort to intervene and change the football area. We brought the weight to the Greek Championship that some are now trying to undermine. We made an effort on the one hand to allow all Greek citizens and foreign Greeks free access to the product and, on the other, to change the data in Greek football. It has been done and it continues to be very fussy and a lot of spices, because ERT has acquired a serious product and has become dominant in the field of sport TV, not only for football, but also for the majority of popular sports. So ERT acted as a safety net and as a driving lever to create a new reality in Greek football, in what way? With television contracts, which in the case of Super League were within market conditions, in the case of Super League 2 and Football League, it may have been slightly above market conditions, but on strict conditions, investing in sports structures and financial control. Furthermore, it would be a precondition for these groups not to allow and prevent the creation of incidents of violence by fans, and that is why there were relevant penalties, financially, linked to television contracts. These and a number of other clauses contained in the agreement were mainly aimed at upgrading and protecting Greek football. This plan was a five-year plan and, regardless of economic sizes, large or small, an important detail that is deliberately concealed is that a very large proportion of these amounts were being paid back to the State, whether through direct tax on insurance contributions or indirectly through indirect taxes. Given the economic situation of Greek football, the main entry of teams participating in the events - it was said about 80% to 85% - is the television contract. This means that whoever is the television provider, who gives the money, is the one who actually determines the viability of the teams, which groups, that is, which groups are able to cope with and who cannot, therefore, which teams can participate and which are not in the championships. So the teams will be absolutely dependent on him. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with one phrase. The concentration on a businessman, who already owns a football company, of the television stations that display the product, means that this person - in this case, the owner of the Olympic OSCE and Alter EGO - will be able to control the substance, through this economic dependence and the rest of the OSCE. And since, here, we are talking about a case of carabine collision of interests and unfair competition, I will present in the minutes the case of Rupert Murdoch, owner of the 'SKY B', who has transferred matches of the English football championship and the offer he made in 1998 for £623,000 in order to buy Manchester United, which is backwards. I would remind you of the majestic 'no' - and I shall put it before you - which it has received from the United Kingdom's Committee on Monopolies and Mergers on the grounds of public interest. Such action would have allowed Murdoch to sit on both sides at the negotiating table, on the one hand by selling and on the other by buying television rights, that is, you're going to keep your eyes closed. Furthermore, the United Kingdom Commission - and unfortunately, I do not think it will happen in our country - felt that this harmful energy to competition would irreversibly damage English football, one of the best of the world, by increasing the already existing disparities between clubs. And I'm filing the conclusion in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Burnus, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much. I completed my first talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u76	We are completing the protagonists of the honourable Members with Mrs Elisabeth (Bette) Scoofa, MEP Pierre. Here, you have the floor for three minutes, plus two minutes of dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, for four and a half years of SYRIZA's governance, New Democracy was bombing our ears within Ethiopia and these citizens, it set up its whole election speech, not only by bombing the Prespecies Agreement, but also by accusing SYRIZA of not taking care of the middle class, not taking care of entrepreneurship, that we are anti-investors and anti-businesses. But I would like to ask the housewives and housewives who have a small house, even medium-sized estates, who have, to obtain them, a loan from the bank: How do they feel? To think of the sweat that washes them every time the bank invites them to pay the dose, what labors, what do you deprive the Greek family of, to pay the monthly instalment to the bank. I would also like to ask how the micro-magatators feel, how the entire Greek people feel, who in the coming sale of four systemic banks are forced, want to plunge up their debt of 'FORTHNET' to them by 85%, making a single specific business owner of 36.2% of the shares of 'FORTHNET'. He will pay the fair price of EUR 45 million to obtain FORTHNET, a company that, as other interlocutors have said, has EUR 300 million. Has there been such a haircut before? Is the Government of the New Democracy prepared to cut off all the loans from small and medium-sized enterprises, households, hoteliers, tourists that were oppressed together with the collapse and oppression of "THOMAS COOK"? Are you prepared, gentlemen of the government, to proceed to similar haircuts? Or do you eventually love entrepreneurship only certain, very specific friends of the government? I would also like to ask how football fans and administrations feel, when, through this marketplace again, this businessman will become an absolute dominant of this game, as his company, ‘ALTER EGO’ will become the only de facto holder of television rights and through these television rights will build up football teams in I, II, III, III National in what he likes and how he likes it, not to say anything worse. You know, however, the specific businessman, whom you are favouring, if you do not make any remedial moves, has in the past shown very bad business conduct, when that businessman gathered the monopoly of press distribution through the company "ARGOS". It should be noted that for this company a decision was made by the previous Competition Committee - you know, the one chaired by Ms Thanos - which imposed a fine of EUR 350,000, as was the case with the other press distribution company that existed until 2017, the 'EUROPE'. And why did he impose the fines on them? Because, ladies and gentlemen, these two press distribution companies had made a fine sharing and agreement between them under the table and agreed to a cartel on what pricing policy they would impose on the newspapers and the press that exist in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u78	Complete, unless you want to take the time of your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u79	I shall also use my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u80	All right, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u81	You know, not all of this is a fact of SYRIZA's fantasy who file this timely question. They are not rumored and simply made at the cafes in the province, but there have also been specific complaints about the specific press distribution company, the 'ARGOS', by very specific newspapers, including Mr Hatzinikolaou, who I do not think belong to the SYRIZA area, by the publisher of the newspaper 'DIMMOCRATIA' - another that I do not think is symmetrical - not to mention the written complaints of the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO' and of the newspaper 'INTENDING OF STATES'. Of course, the previous government, through its ministers, Mr Papapas, Mr Kretsou, Mr Papadimitriou and Mr Drasakis, took the step you must take and you as ministers. In particular, the Minister for Economy and Development, using the 2011 Act, on the basis of Article 11 and Article 25, can seek the opinion prudently from the Competition Committee to be told by the new – after Mrs Thanos – yours, the one you appointed the Competition Committee and inform the fans of the Greek public whether and in this case the acquisition of 'FORTHNET' and television broadcasting rights, etc. there is abuse or there may be abuse because of a dominant position, as was the case in the case of distribution of the press. I will conclude by saying that before you carve Mrs Thanou, SYRIZA's MEP Mrs Kuneva had tabled a question to the European Committee on Competition. I would like to close by saying that the European Commissioner, Mrs Westager, who states that 'ACGOS', the press distribution company of the favourite master businessman, abused her monopoly position, creating risks, not only of economic neutralisation of smaller publishing companies, but also of freedom of the press and democracy in Greece. We're expecting your moves, like I said. And we expect you to support the only public channel that can support the transmission of television matches, supporting our proposal to buy out the "FORTHNET" and "NOVA". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too. Mr. Nikolaos Papathanasessis has the floor for his prototype for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the confidence of citizens in the institutions is the foundation of democracy itself. That is why it is an obligation for all the political forces to safeguard their prestige and credibility. Incidentally, respect for the institutions includes respect for the ministers present. Because you know, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you have been judged for this disrespectfulness of yours. That is why the people on 7 July put you in opposition. And let me tell you a secret? You will remain in opposition for many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u84	The Hall was raised, Mr. Papathanasis!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u85	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u86	Only in this way can we, ladies and gentlemen, inspire legal certainty and fuel power...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u87	Minister, we understand how your seat will be empty.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u88	Don't interrupt! Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u89	Listen, Mr. Pappa. You'll learn from what you'll hear from me. We'll meet after all. We have time. We are determined to observe in any case any matter and any citizen, whether or not he refers. With your timely question, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA Members, you invite us to take a stand on a redemption process for a company from an investment scheme, a process that, in various shapes, has been in progress since 2017 on your government, gentlemen of SYRIZA. You are therefore calling on us to take a position on a matter relating, at least, to two independent authorities before these principles can be decided on. What is your intention? What are you really pursuing? Are you seeking to manipulate the operation of two independent authorities, namely the Competition Committee and the National Telecommunications and Post Committee? So we tell you clearly: we are fully respecting the institutions and democratic procedures and will never enter the fields of an independent authority. Listen to me a little bit. It's not in our DNA, it doesn't exist in our code of values the manipulation of independent authorities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u90	You've proved it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u91	Your duties...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u92	The time of government intervention ended on 7 July.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u93	Mr. Comrade, don't make me use a nomenclature. Hot request! You're not interrupting. You spoke at ease and I would ask that the same ratio and respect be respected. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, we are seeking to control the government by tabling timely questions. It would be useful, however, if these questions were to be addressed on matters relating to the government's responsibilities and not on the cause of impressions. I repeat: our constant principle is the non-negotiable respect for the institutional functioning of the state. With this in mind, then, I shall refer to what has happened. In October 2017, the banks tasked the international investment house ‘NOMURA’ to find an investor to rescue ‘FORTHNET’, which was already under collapse and could not serve its loans. FORTHNET has non-performing loans of EUR 315,000,000,000, other debts of several million and over a thousand employees. NOMURA sent an invitation to the investors and received non-binding bids from dozens of potential investors. Subsequently, of the dozens of non-binding tenders, only two submitted binding tenders, but a procedure which was not completed. The binding offers were one by telecommunications companies and the second by a broadcasting company. Following the non-completion of the previous procedure, a binding tender was submitted by ‘ALTER EGO’. The offer concerned the acquisition of shares corresponding to 32.6% of the bank's share capital at FORTHNET. To date, according to two letters, which I tabled in the Minutes of the House, the National and Piraeus, there is no answer from the banks to this proposal. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment, George Papathanassis, presents for the minutes the letters referred to above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If this proposal is approved by the Governing Councils of the banks and signed, the agreement will, as is known, become applicable under the terms of its approval by the Competition Committee and the EBRD. So you ask the government about a business agreement between private interests that no one knows how it is and that no one knows exactly what it contains to date. We therefore respond clearly to you: With a New Democracy Government there will be no political intervention on matters relating to competent independent authorities and on these institutional principles, we must all respect them. As far as credit institutions are concerned, you are well aware that they are supervised by the European Central Bank and that, in order to regulate a liability, they are obliged to take account of these rules. These rules are set out in the extrajudicial mechanism of debt regulation, Law 4499/2017 that you voted, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and which failed to change now, so that many more people can join the law on the management of non-performing loans, Law 3454/2015 and the Code of Conduct of Banking, Law 4024/2013, as well as the Banking Code. They must also take into account the Bank of Greece’s regulatory operations for the management of late payment debt and non-performing exposures. In any case, the reduction of a bank debt is a function of many factors, such as the company's net position, the collateral provided by credit institutions, and the recovery of capital that would be achieved in the event of violent liquidation. These are the basic principles governing debt arrangements and these principles are supervised by the European Central Bank and the Bank of Greece. With this, therefore, I believe that you are already aware of it, Mr SYRIZA Members, but obviously you are ignorant, it is clear that your question seeks to create distorting impressions and unfounded suspicions. It seems even more irresponsible and paradoxical for three further reasons: firstly, because the procedure was running and you knew it in your own governance, secondly, because there was full acceptance of the procedures, and thirdly, because you know that at least two independent authorities will decide on which agreement the credit institutions conclude, following their own procedures. How, then, are you asking us to intervene in a process between credit institutions and independent authorities, without implying an institutional diversion? But that's over. They do not apply to us, because our fundamental principles are to defend the legality, legal certainty and freedom of trade. It is therefore the independent authority of the Competition Committee and the independent administrative authority of the National Telecommunications and Post Commission. The Competition Committee, to which you referred - and you should know - will be seized in accordance with Article 6 of Law 3959/2011 on prior notification of concentrations of undertakings, i.e. on the basis of the article stating that each concentration of undertakings must be notified within 30 days of the conclusion of the agreement. So you realise that at this stage, as the agreement has not been concluded, the Competition Committee cannot give its opinion. Mr President, in the Minutes of this House, I would like to reply from the Competition Committee and the Securities and Market Committee. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Development and Investment Mr Nikolaos Papathanases presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] The second independent administrative authority which may have a say is the National Telecommunications and Post Commission. This principle should remind you that under Article 12 of Law No 4070/2012 it is necessary to ensure that electronic communications and postal services legislation is complied with and to apply precisely the provisions of Law No 3959/2011, as well as the relevant provisions of Community law. As far as the issue of the exploitation of television rights is concerned, you know very well that the market is very competitive. There is a significant number of private television stations that ensures market pluralism. So there are many alternatives available and you, Mr. Pappa, answered Mr. Velopoulos, when he told you about PAOK, that PAOK chose his own route. That only answers what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u95	She was raped.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Pappas answered. The legislator has arranged to regulate issues relating to the exploitation of broadcasting rights for radio, television or retransmission of sports events by sporting public limited companies and in particular the AOCs. The question here is, on the one hand, to respect legislation and, on the other, to enable each private company to operate in a competitive manner. In order to ensure the proper functioning of the television market, there is certainly a need for continuous supervision by the competent independent authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, the state's obligation is to create the institutional framework, the rules on the functioning of the market and to safeguard legality. When the institutional framework is correctly defined and when it ensures legitimacy, the market operates smoothly within the existing institutional framework. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek economy comes out of a multi-annual crisis and enters a new era that lays the foundations for its legitimacy and respect for the conditions of healthy competition. We need modern competitive enterprises that produce wealth and jobs, businesses that contribute to the prospect of a modern competitive Greece, economically strong and socially fair. There is a place on the market for all, as long as they respect the institutional framework that governs it. Our role is to act impartially and as the laws of the state define. Our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has said this repeatedly: The government respects the institutions, respects the independent authorities and does not interfere in their work. Procedures are controlled by law by competent bodies and we are obliged to serve the public interest consistently and deeply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. The Foreign Minister has the floor for ten minutes to the Prime Minister, Mr Stelios Petsas, for his protagonist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the Members who have tabled the topical and urgent question on which we are debating today, as this gives me the opportunity to remind Greek citizens of two things: Firstly, in your timely question you see that too many small and very small businesses and even larger, which have suffered the consequences of the long-term crisis, are treated by credit institutions in terms of overdue debt arrangements with strong bureaucracy, rigour and multiple delays, resulting in very serious consequences for their viability and growth of their interest rate debts as well as inaction or final closure. The self-criticism, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is indeed impressive. Because this has happened for four and a half years now, and yet you have done nothing to deal with it. On the contrary, you were acidifying them, as in the first half of 2015 you caused a crisis of confidence, an outflow of deposits, closed banks, imposed capital controls, and finally, you led the banks to a new inappropriate until the end of 2014. As a result of this recapitalisation, EUR 40 billion, I repeat EUR 40 billion - not million - were lost for the Greek State and the Greek small shareholders. And since it was mentioned before the issue of haircuts, I have to say that since this recapitalisation 98% of the value of the Greek small share portfolio was bored. Then you did not show any interest in all those who are allegedly being cut off. Secondly, you are giving me the opportunity to refer to the savings of taxpayers' money achieved by the renegotiation of contracts between ERT and the Super League 1. Shortly before the elections, the ERT, obviously with your guidance, decided to scatter 63,2 million euros. If this were to go ahead, ERT would have no money to shape its program. Public television is neither a mechanism for micro-party propaganda nor for the acquisition of votes. The previous government has unfortunately attempted to exploit ERT for both. Soccer rights were used in the attempt to buy votes. On July 5, 2019, two days before the elections, the Tsipra government triggered a time bomb on the foundations of ERT and football. He promised a total of 63.2m euros in Super League 1, 2 and Football League, for ERT to broadcast for the current season their football matches, beyond all reasonable and unrealistic data on the private television market. It is clear that the exploitation of ERT's money, i.e. taxpayers, for a party's benefit, is contrary to the new government. Therefore, the general meeting of 28 July 2019 of the shares of ERT SA authorised the forthcoming board of directors to renegotiate a lower price with the Super League 1 and 2 teams in order to formulate the best possible program for ERT and the maximum possible savings of its resources, i.e. the money of Greek taxpayers. In the context of the previous weeks' negotiations, ERT submitted new reduced offers and created the environment to submit proposals to the groups and to the private television market. Yes, Mr. Katsi, that's how it happened. So, as far as Super League 1 was concerned, Panathinaikos and Mars were released from the public television, while the administration of ERT negotiated and achieved a lower price with the four AUE - Atromitos, Lamia, Xanthi, Panatolikos - with which ERT had agreed to broadcast their matches this year as well. A total of EUR 8.9 million will be paid, including VAT and production costs, instead of EUR 22 million originally planned and EUR 44 million promised by the previous government. Thus, 13.1m euros were saved for taxpayers against the original contract and 35.1m euros against the election promises of the previous government. With the same respect for taxpayers' money, on the basis of the independence and impartiality of the ERT and the payment of a fair price for its television rights, discussions continue with Super League 2. And I would like to ask Mr Katsi here, who talks about contracts released by ERT, this: ERT gave EUR 6.2 million for the Panathinaikos. How much were the advertising revenues that you said had the most commercial group? I'll tell you what. Less than 300,000 euros, including repetitions. It's not a subscription channel, ERT. He takes the money of the Greek taxpayers at the end of it. It does not pay any subscription packages, as the subscribers of "NOVA" or "COSMOTE TV" pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u99	You're uninformed at least!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u100	I answer the result on his own. So I repeat that the only compass for taking our decision to release groups and lower the price for those who have stayed in the ERT is precisely respect for taxpayers' money. With regard to the rest of the issues raised in the topical question, in addition to what the Secretary of State for Development and Investment, Mr Papathanassis, has said, I also stress that the government's position is that it should not be involved in private trade. The State’s role is to ensure the public interest and to respect legality. In the current legislation, firstly, conditions, conditions and incompatible with the possession of licences, in this case licences for pay-TV services, such as the licence held by FORTHNET under the ‘NOVA’ brand. Secondly, criteria and thresholds or other percentages of participation in the determination of the concentration of control in the media sector and the determination of the dominant position. Further, under the relevant legislation that has been in force for many years and has not been adopted by our Government, but has also been in force over your days, monitoring and respecting these have been entrusted and exercised by independent authorities on the grounds of each of them's competence. For example, I would remind you of Law 2644/1998 on the provision of Internet television services, Law 3592/2007 on the concentration of SMEs, Law 3959/2011 on the protection of free competition, Law 4070/2012 on electronic communications. In particular, these matters are examined on a case-by-case basis by the National Telecommunications and Post Committee as the competent competition authority, since the case concerns a company providing fixed and Internet electronic communications services, the National Broadcasting Council, in so far as the case concerns an eligible company providing pay-TV, such as FORTHNET, and the Competition Committee on the control of compliance with competition law for other markets, such as television content, press and media. Although, when any such agreement is concluded, it will obviously be subject to approval by the competent authorities, which will examine the documents and information that will be considered, judge the lawfulness of the transaction and issue their findings. To date no official document has been sent to the competent authorities. The Government respects and trusts the independent authorities and it is understood that they will exercise their powers unaffected. As you mentioned the creation of the Competition Committee, I would remind you that you have appointed yourself as the head of your Committee to guide your decisions. The Government has truly defined independent and impartial leadership, with a view to the committee acting as dictating national and Community law, without any pressure and no suggestions. So do not ask for interventions that are not meant in favoured states. They ended on 7 July. I reserve for my dentistry for specific questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u101	We thank the Minister for his brief time. I call on the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. It's interesting today's conversation, believe me. Mr. Papa, I didn't know I had to rejoice and applaud because they would throw F-16 with my own kerosene to protect those who claim Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u103	They don't claim anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u104	They're reclaiming! Even now, there has been an initiative by the government yesterday on the "North Macedonia" you have given and even claim "Solone", "Lerin", "Vonden". I know it well, believe me. So we will not salute, nor welcome, because we pay the F-16 kerosene, pilot workers, to protect the Skopje who claim something else. I call it that, counselling.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u105	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u106	We are now going for the next one, because I have listened with a lot of warmth to talk about channel permits. What did you leave behind, my Minister? What did you leave behind for the licenses? You tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u107	What do you mean? It's not like that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u108	Gambling's getting bigger. Because I'm working on channels, I know of channels, my Minister. It's not exactly like that. Anyway, listen. He wondered why this room is empty. Let me tell you why this room is empty, Mr. Pappa. Don't be in a hurry. I'll tell you now. Because if Mr Marinakis were in favour of your question, all of the New Democracy would be here. It would be and would be struggling for most who would talk more to go out tomorrow to "PARAPOLICA", "BIMA", "NEA", to its sites, to its channels, so that they could make their specs. Well, aren't you ashamed of New Democracy? All right, I understand that the buttons are appreciated. Your "barbarians" honor them, although some do not know them at all. That's what the Prime Minister said a few months ago here. "I don't know Mr. Marinakis," he says. Is it not wrong that the 'barbard' should be appreciated and assessed, but that I see from a hundred and fifty-eight Members here three to four? I won't say it in a bad mood, but it's not Champions League's team here with us. They're some other MPs, new ones. It's not Adonis, my friend, it's not Vorides, it's not Mr. Hatzidakis, all these good executives. Why didn't they come? Are they afraid they won't go to the opening of Mr. Marinakis in Crete, where they all meet and drink drinks together? Why, you guys? Here, for the sake of altars and focuses to fight for Mr Marinakis all together, to fight for the great shipowner, the great factor! I want to be clear because I heard the Minister very carefully. Minister, did you say anything about independent authorities? This is where we laugh. Who appoints them? You! Who's beheading them? You! What are the ‘independent authorities’? The gentlemen here. So when we appoint the independent authorities, what are they independent? Exploded by you are any authorities. Ms. Thanos, you caratted her. For me - I repeat - it was your own personal rerun, unfair, and according to the European Union, you were wrong, but it is not independent. The more independent I am from the Greek Solution, the more independent the authorities are. I mean, we should be a little careful when we talk about independent authorities in here. There are no independent authorities. Mr. Gerapetritis, your Minister, wasn't he in an independent authority? It was an independent authority. So don't tell me 'independent'. They're equipped with whatever government, because whoever goes out changes the independent authorities, gets someone else, their own people, a little blue, a little red, a little pink, our job to do, you say, and it's over. I want us to be honest. Now, because you're not interfering, Minister, what can I tell you? So in the 'CRETA FARM' the Minister did not intervene? And he did well. Wasn't he interfering? It'll do! Another example: In Greek, you created a special legal framework to become a casino. And that's an intervention. What are you talking about? It was a legislative intervention, not just an intervention, like Adones, which was a genuine mediator to help. In Greek, you only photographed of Latsi to do the dirty work or to do the casino. That's the truth. The interventions must be made by the political and executive authorities to serve Marinakis as well, otherwise it is not. How will Marinakis or Velopoulos or any of them in here be served if they are a shipowner or if they have channels? Listen, Mr President-in-Office, it is not wrong to be exposed, but to the barons we live in, we must be careful. A former Prime Minister once said in here about pimps. We have barons in Greece, if you know. If you don't know that, I'll tell you who Marinakis and every Marinakis are - I don't care about me - and Savvides and all those who have channels. Why are you blackmailing? The political system is blackmailing. For a front page in the Velopoulos newspaper - not to say to Marinakis again - the Minister makes tents. For a good review, the Minister's doing tents! For a good article that he'll put for a Member of Parliament, the Minister is begging! And please who? Not Marinakis, but Yannis Kourtakis, my friend, my colleague. Because we always have fronts in our business, there are always "anti-his" directly or indirectly, because in many of Mr Marinakis' leaves he is not Marinakis himself, he is Mr. Yiannis Kourtakis, publisher, my colleague old. I knew the man ten years ago. Suddenly he became a publisher, as suddenly many publishers in Greece become, like my friend Vaxebanis, yours, who suddenly became a publisher, and he was a great publisher. They're all your grandchildren. And we're actually going. I will not say for the price or the haircut, but I have listened very well to his colleague SYRIZA saying 'Strengthen, boys, and to the loans of Greek citizens'. I'm not saying 85%, but do 30% or 40% haircut. For example, you owe 10,000 euros? You'll pay the 4,000 euros. 60% haircut! Why only in Marina a haircut? One intervention. Why? Doesn't it seem strange to you? Let me tell you what Mr Marinakis says: the Doll Group, in.gr, tanea.gr, tovima.gr, newspapers "TA NEWS", "THE VIMA", 21.1% of TELETYPOS", "ONE CHANNEL", 33.33% "Northern Greece", 50% printing unit "IRIDA", "ARGOS". This is the big crime. I have friends in Thessaloniki who have newspapers, such as METROSPORT, the local newspapers in northern Greece, and this guy is doing so on purpose for the Press of Thessaloniki - and it is called the 'Breaky Press' - at 12.00 in the prefectures of Macedonia. And you can tolerate it! The Competition Committee tolerates this. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u109	How can it go?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u110	I don't care how it goes. That's why there's the state to go. After he's printed in the morning, he's got trucks to pay out of his pocket to do like he always did. It is not possible for the Member of the Government to tell me how the press can go in the morning - in northern Greece, in Macedonia! You mustn't say that in here! In Macedonia, where we don't have cards, where we don't have newspapers? What are you talking about? [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Now let's go further. It's not all he's got. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, why did you forget something very simple? Of course you were with him then. Some of your district officers were drinking a drink with Mr. Marinakis. The Municipality of Piraeus. Why is it in the Municipality of Piraeus? You know? There's a nice port you have there. If you control the port of Piraeus, indirectly or directly, you control a lot of things. Why don't you say that in here? I'm not saying he's doing illegal work, but he seems to want to be a real baron. And we're talking about what in here? How do we serve a baron? What for? You tell me! Let's get to the seriousst. I don't care if a PAI owner can control television rights. But that is unacceptable. I'm not a soccer player. I was little. Now I don't care very much. PAOK, AEK, Olympiacos, Mars don't even care about me. But I cannot pay you, my dear colleague, to control you and have a rival company. I mean, something's wrong here. I mean, I have the PAOK PAOK, the Mars PAE, and I get all the rights and I pay the Olympiacos PAE. Would the government tolerate this? Oh, no. How do you stand this now? How do you tolerate a guy to control the teams and do a championship? How's the championship going to be? You tell me. The boss who pays will also tell the players. I don't know if I'm wrong, but yesterday Mr. Marinakis had a courtesy with a match. I'm not saying he's guilty. But if you have courts with a set-up match and you take the whole "NOVA" and you give money, it's much more legitimate to set the game up better. Understand? It's clever the deal that Mr. Marinakis is going to do so he can control not only with the money, but also with the pressure of money he can exercise and bankrupt a team, have no money. I'm telling you the obvious. What are we talking about in here? Who are we kidding? I mean, we're cheating on the world, we're cheating ourselves. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of Greek Solution is ringing.]] I would not like to say anything more about Mr Marinakis. I just want to remind Mr. SYRIZA - so I call them SYRIZA's gentlemen - to the gentlemen of SYRIZA that I have a list in front of me. You and Marinakis are right, because the government's behaviour is scandalous. I have here 1,116,000 euros that the Kokkalis took on your own governance. Another baron, gentlemen! Baron one, Baron the other. That is the problem of Greek politics. Since 1950-1960 I remember Constantine Karamanlis saying "Who governs this place?" Marinakis, Lambrakis, Ashes, Bobolas. They rule the place! That's the truth. And that's what scares you. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Fortunately, I don't have any dependence. Do you know why? I'm not gonna say I'm self-creator as an entrepreneur, but I never went to ask a shipowner to eat with him. I didn't go to his birthday and I'll never go. I didn't sit down and have a cup of coffee with him, 'cause the coffee with the shipowner is a slave. Understood! It's unbelievable. The Ministry of Infrastructure gave - for those transported there, for the poachers - 1 million. 'INTRAKAT': EUR 946,000 signed a contract for construction in the Botanic. All the works have been taken by INTRAKAT on SYRIZA. I'm not saying he's illegally taken it. For God's sake! I'm not saying something illegal is going on or some people get money. But symptomically he gets it. Leave, gentlemen of SYRIZA, my grandfather, to take something, and Marinakis, who doesn't do well with the Red. They're killing each other for the Karaiskaki Stadium. One is against Olympiacos, the other in favor of Olympiacos. I don't understand what's going on in here. I really don't understand. You're forcing behind a lie all of you. And behind the lie on either side you turn your arrows. What for? Tell me why. And all this time - because this is the serious thing - that the government is fighting in America to bring investment. This fight should be found by all arrogant people. And they brought Mr. Mousourakis to the event. The event of the Greek relatives with the Prime Minister, Adonis and the others, was coordinated by the singer Mousourakis. Yeah, check it out. He had Muzurakis. Like I'm telling you. In the Chamber where the event took place to talk to investors the New Democracy coordinator was Mousourakis, i.e. "GOLDMAN SACHS", we are talking about multinational companies. What's this, guys? What kind of amateurism is that? Maurey! You know what a baby's gonna say? This is unbelievable. You're sending ministers. Mrs. Mendoni went with 9,000 euros. Mrs. Kerameau with 7,000 euros. Do they get that money out of their pocket? I saw their tickets at the "GENERAL". Is that money coming out of your pocket? Now let's go to the other fiasco. I will take a little more time, Mr President, because that is very serious. I'm sorry. See - Minister, the things with Marinakis you will solve, I am sure of this - the fiasco with the plan 'HERAKLIS'. Minister, it's not a good story with Mr. Zavos. I say it here. There is no agreement of the Single Supervisory Mechanism SSM. International reports are being found for Mr. Zavos. See the topic, the "HRAKLIS" project that you have as the front of your great victory. Watch it! It'll blow into your hands. Here we go. In conclusion, I would like to say this: I am sick of New Democracy having meetings every week. And on the basis of the meetings, they don't sit well or sit alone. Every week, every Monday, the Prime Minister gathers his ministers on how to solve the problem of poachers. And what do they say? Same, same, same. Yesterday they almost burned people. I don't care if he's Afghan, Pakistani, Turkish, Greek, they're human! Why were they burned? I'll tell you what. Because there is no want from your side to end the influx, to stop this story coming here. I didn't hear a single meter. I'm listening to retreat. We'll increase, he says, the controls. And your Minister comes out in the morning at "AND1" and says he can't go to hot spots because the non-governmental organizations forbid it. Turn them off! What will he say 'do I not be allowed to go to hot spot'? The Minister, Panagiotopoulos, said so. Please, ladies and gentlemen. He told "AND1" to Papadakis. He said that 'I can't go, because I'm not allowed by the NGOs'. The Minister can't go to hot spots, why are the NGOs forbidding him? Christ and God bless you! Where are we? Turn them off! Finish them! I'll give you an example to close down here, because I could talk a lot of time. Turkish non-governmental organization, 'IH', so is called 'Insani Yardim Vakfi', which deals with refugees in Greece. Turkish NGOs have the seat in Greece and bring refugees. That's what he calls them. I call them poachers. She had to shut down first. Who tells me they're not agents from behind? Look for it, guys. There's no secret service? Is there anything in this place? I would also like to read something to you, Mr Pappa, which has escaped from you. This is a statement by our Prime Minister before the elections: "The decongestion of the islands cannot be carried out with flows from the islands to mainland Greece, as SYRIZA does today. Refunds from the islands to Turkey must be made.’; This reminds me of 'Lesvos-Mytilini' by Tsipras. He's taking it backwards now. He said they'd leave the islands to mainland Greece, now he's messed up again. That's what he said, isn't it? Do it! Do it, my ministers! Why don't you do it? Why don't you do it after the Prime Minister said so? There is a video of his statement on "KRITT TV", "SAMOS TV", he said in IDD. Why don't you do it? Of course I'll tell you why you don't. For many of the ministers have their own NGOs and their own jobs, believe me. If you look into it, you'll find it. In closing, I'd like to say you're committing a crime. Go and put a camp, Minister, at 111 Battle Wing in New Anchialo. We've got sixty F-16 there. Do you guarantee that among those five hundred thousand who are there are not jihadists? Because the Minister replied to me that there are jihadists among the poachers. You go and put Samos on hot spot, where Mr. Eleftheroglou is, on radar - we have our radars, you know that? - who see Turkey across and put them right next door! How do you know there are no jihadists? What are you going to do? Where are you transferring the bomb to mainland Greece? He's gonna blow up a nuclear bomb, you know? He's gonna blow up a nuclear bomb! Let's concede at some point and see what's obvious. There are no people in Greece who can't feed the Greeks. Go back to their homelands, stay the Greeks here, work together, organize a plan. We can't accommodate others! Understand, Greece dies demographically and you bring me Hassan and Ibrahim? Christ and God bless you! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Mr President, thank you for your tolerance. I would like to say this: Think, in fifty hot spots in Greece, about what happened in Moria yesterday, because in the fifty hot spots there are hundred agents. Think of this happening, the outbreaks of tension in fifty points across Greece. You have put the fifth bay on the back of the Greek Army. If there is a twist that no one wants to make war, we will have 'five-fags' on our back side. Be careful, because you will soon leave and commit a lasting national crime. You'll finish the country. Organize yourself, finally, and leave the meetings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u111	Thank you to the President of the Greek Solution. Because I did not want to rely only on my experience and my memory, I asked the agency to answer Mr Alexiades, who said that he was the first to ask three, four ministers and two Deputys. I do not want to trouble this House, but I have detailed dates from 2016 to 2018 and I imagine you know who was ruling at that time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u112	Give me time in my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u113	Mrs. Scouffa's gone. I wanted to say that in a question to which Mrs Ahtsoglou was asking - and the opposition then protested in the same way - the answer was in favour of Mr Petropoulos coming. I want to tell you that we have four Ministers in question and two Deputys have come or one Deputy or four Ministers are asked and one Deputy is left. You, Mr Alexiadis, often came and answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u114	I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u115	I have two questions on 10-3-2017 and 20-4-2018 - if you want them in front of me and all the dialogue - where they have been answered by a State Secretary each. So this procedure is not the first time. The State Secretarys always have a role, have responsibilities, represent the government and represent the Ministry in which they are located as State Secretarys.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, what did you then say from the chairs of the opposition?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u117	I don't know. I personally didn't say anything if you asked me. You went to say it was the first time, and here I answer that it has always been. I, as Bureau, had to ask...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u118	You are chairing for all of us here, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u119	For everyone. Look...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u120	That was the work of the government, not yours, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u121	I restore the truth, and I owe it. The truth is that this procedure is not the first time. They ask three, four, five Ministers and one is coming. And I took part in a question we were asking four, five ministers and one was coming. That's how she's used to it. One comes and answers. It's either Minister or State Secretary. Seek the Minutes at the services to show them to you. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. For my part, first of all, I should like to refer to the dramatic events in Moria which have again cost human lives. As the President of SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras, said from the outset, in the programming statements, that we are not going to repeat the kind of opposition that New Democracy has made over the years, a kind of opposition based on impressions, populism and the exploitation of tragic events. We must, however, stress that the New Democracy Government has been trapped since the first days after the elections. On the one hand, it is trapped in the extreme right-wing rhetoric, on the issue of the refugee crisis, which used all the previous years and the easy and irresponsible opposition it then made to the SYRIZA government, which was forced in very difficult circumstances to face with a sense of responsibility and humanism. On the other hand, the government is caught and politically awkward at landing, Mr Ministers, in fact, when it comes out - and the Minister responsible for immigration and the Prime Minister - discovers the geopolitical causes behind the refugee crisis. So this political discomfort also leads to political and operational failure, because you did not know exactly how to carry out your duties when you actually landed. We saw the circumstances in Moria, which was difficult anyway, and no one has denied that reality. In the July 7 elections he numbered five thousand two hundred people. Because all these months that have taken place, you could not get detached from the extreme right rhetoric and your choices and go on with the planned transfer of vulnerable groups, women and children, to other housing structures, with more human conditions in the interior, we have seen the population in Moria at this time surpassing the thirteen thousand and, of course, creating conditions of crisis and mourning human lives. So, with an absolute sense of responsibility, without the mood of an inexpensive opposition, we call on you to take these responsibilities and, above all, humanism, but also, of course, with the respective European negotiations and interventions, to be able to face the refugee crisis, but always by putting human life and dignity ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, the question we are discussing today, on the basis of the proposal by the SYRIZA colleagues - although I must say, Mr Ministers, that you tried to deceive it and, in fact, avoid answering it on the substance, as you have hid back either from remarks deceptively about Skilling or by pretext - is a critical question and I would expect you to be given the opportunity to unblock your own policy and your principles as a liberal party you are, as you claim, in relation to market freedom, respect for European legislation, the functioning of the internal market. And, of course, we would expect you to acknowledge that, especially when we talk about media concentration, we are not talking about any private sector concentration. It concerns issues which, for all of Europe and European legislation, concern the public interest and of course concern democracy and freedom of information. We'd expect all this from you. Unfortunately, however, you are a neoliberal government, as you themselves do. Unfortunately, as the Greek people have been living for you these months, you are a neoliberal Balkan-type government. You are too tough neoliberal, when you come to dismantle employment rights with amendments, when you come to undermine the social state, when you come to abolish the rule one on recruitment in the State, when you come and work on privatisation procedures and the famous insurance, for which we expect you to finally open your papers. But you are resurrecting a very traditional, Balkan-style, right-wing concept of state control, as we have seen with the first legislation that you have brought in relation to the final state, when it comes to the non-respect of European rules or principles and the corresponding sensitivity to free market issues and to issues relating to the public interest and democracy. And here is a heavy past, as is heavy, and your only recent arrangements, in the recent three months. To remind you, of course, between 1990 and 1993, which was the period when OTE was exempted from the market it opened for mobile telephony at the time. COSMOTE after 1993 entered the mobile telephony market. I would also remind you of the period 1990-1993 which formed this unrealistic and interrelated environment of private broadcasting. It was the first time that the SYRIZA government has managed to lay rules on the basis of European authorities, regulate licences, and, as Mr Pappas said, there are already specific remunerations, which will, of course, continue on the path through the repayment of licences in the years to come and, of course, from the frequency-use charges and the corresponding tax on advertising time. Also, in your governance over the period 2004-2009, we saw how the acquisition of "OLYMPIAKIS" took place and saw how it was established in our country, in fact, a powerful oligopoly in air transport. That's one of your own ideas about the free market. Of course, we are not going far, in the last three months we have seen your perception of the circumstances surrounding the public interest and private interests. We have seen it in the arrangements that you are bringing to Greek, and we are now seeing it with the depreciation of PPC. Unfortunately, we see it with the privatisation you have put forward for the ELPEs - and we will have the opportunity tomorrow to discuss more thoroughly - and now we see it with the answer you have given to the question we have asked about the negotiation process with the banks, which is currently under way, as regards the proposal from the ALTER EGO Group, in connection with FORTHNET and NOVA. And here I must comment on some of the comments made by the Ministers. Mr Papathanassis spoke to us - and rather in a way that is inconsistent when a Minister comes to respond to a parliamentary procedure - regarding respect for the institutions. I would say, Minister, that this respect begins in the way that you, a Minister of Government, faces Parliament and the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny. And you know - you will see it along the way - that parliamentary control comes many times to protect governments, since they have the sensitivity to listen to the substance of parliamentary control. I would also like to say to you, Minister, because you mentioned the outcome of the elections - that the elections are not a blank cheque. A government gets the majority, takes the self-reliance. This does not mean that it operates outside European legislation, the Constitution and the Greek legislation. And because you spoke of respect for the institutions that your own government shows, I would say that so far the leadership of the Competition Committee with open-ended major cases, as you mentioned earlier, as Members of Parliament, the issue of the ARGOS distribution agency, with an amendment that was both photographic but also retrospective, and of course violated European legislation - which you will find very quickly before you - is not a respect for the institutions. Like respect for the institutions - of course - it was not the abolition of the Public Administration Inspector, Ms. Papaspyrous, with so many critical issues openly and in progress. We hope and want to see whether this new single authority that you have made, in terms of transparency, is indeed going to continue to investigate all these cases, as you committed yourself to when the respective proposal for a law in this House came. I would also say, Mr Papathanassis, because you have also taught us a little lesson about what is being done by legislation on competition issues, I would say that you have to say the full text of every reference you make. Because Law 3959/2011, as you know in Article 11, does not simply say about the possibility of intervention and opinion of the Competition Committee, but acknowledges that at the request of the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs, Competitiveness and Maritime Affairs, as you have said, a number of matters relating to concentrations or infringements of the rules of fair competition can be dealt with. Of course, I would say here that the role of a government, even neo-liberal, which wants to be - and I believe that you believe in Europe and European integration - in its understanding is not to monitor the process of market development nor to be far away and to allow a Competition Committee to do the role of the spatial guard. On the contrary, you are also taking care - because you have political responsibility and you will be judged on this, at least we will follow you closely - of how this legislation is implemented. Mr Petsas first made some general references to SYRIZA's economic policy. I would like to remind him that the SYRIZA government in 2018 took the country out of the memos, made debt regulation, handed over full funds. [[The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions:]] Mr President, I will take two minutes from my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u123	There's a tolerance, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much. It also delivered a 37 billion-dollar security pillow, which is not just a financial size, but the independence and autonomy of the Greek economy. It is what allowed us to go out on the markets, which you too are now applauding, retreat and fit into. I would therefore say that I would expect the same sensitivity, Mr Petsa, and with regard to the necessary control that the Bank of Greece must carry out, on the procedure under way by systemic banks, in which the government has a say. Because, as you know, the government after the recapitalisation of the banks, through the Financial Stability Fund, has a say. And I would expect the Bank of Greece and the Governor of the Bank of Greece, who has a say about everything, even about the non-reduction of pensions, when the institutions themselves agreed a year ago, to have the sensitivity to see what costs such a haircut will mean, which, as you said rightly, has not been completed. So we come here to prevent situations, since we say - and we are - complete and verify the information that colleagues have said that it reaches 80% with 85% of the debt of FORTHNET. Of course, we do not want to believe - here we will be judging you - that you will touch the pillow, as Mr Alexiadis said before, of the EUR 9 billion that you want to go to the banks for such arrangements. We don't want to believe it. We're waiting. As far as ERT is concerned, I would like to mention three points and close. First of all, you must be very careful when you talk about public television because you are bored with 'black' in the ERT, which has no precedent in any European country and has been condemned by all European countries at that time and by the respective Union of European Public Radio and Television Bodies. In addition, without wanting to trial for intentions, Mr Petsa, with your choice of leaving two groups - and even large groups - from ERT, it is natural that we should ask a reasonable question when we see evolution. We are not blaming you, we are asking whether you are now feeling that you are entitled to this development, or whether you are reasonably concerned. I would also expect you to accept and show here that the ERT is now - Mr Pappas said so - it has a reserve of EUR 200 million and for the first time after too many years of balanced balance sheets. And that is why we are coming with the proposal, which Mr Pappas has said, to give a dead end to this debate, because of course no one wants at this time - because you have suggested it - nor has this story become fruitless, since there are these debts, nor any worker being made redundant. What do we say? The very simple one, and I close with it, Mr President. ERT, with its reserve, may proceed to this acquisition, which is in the public interest, does not affect free competition, does not create a problem for European legislation. We are talking about the possibilities it already has from the payroll. Also, the most crucial thing to be placed at some point is that through the free retransmission of the games that ERT will have, we actually also reserve the Greek people's free right without paying, attending the most favorite popular sport, such as football. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the answers were not the same. I would like to believe that there will be the possibility of having clearer positions, even though we have to say that we are concerned and commit, Mr Ministers, that we will also closely monitor the completion, if there is, of this process and respect for the Competition Committee. We hope it was not a preventive caratosis, based on these developments, what we lived the previous period. We also want a clear response to our proposal on the acquisition of FORTHNET - NOVA by ERT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u125	Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr Kegeroglou, MP of Heraklion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u126	Before I go into this, Mr President, I would like to say to a colleague who said that we are not here. I could in the same way ask where the seventy missing SYRIZA colleagues are, since the question we are discussing today is that of SYRIZA and, above all, why the well-known Olympics have not signed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u127	That's a matter, we'll sort it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u128	Take care of yourself. Look, there are Olympics out there and in quotes. Now not to go to explain what "out" is and what "inside". You are well aware of those who have refused you, Mr Pappa, to sign them. So no toys, no toys, no toys with us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u129	Start your placement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u130	Don't imply it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u131	Today we are actually discussing a simple question to the government, tabled by SYRIZA, as a question. It is a simple question, because you put a sceptical question and ask the government and various ministers what they are thinking about or what they think about a number of issues. That is a simple question, ladies and gentlemen, that is not a question. But we also have issues relating to SYRIZA's government period, because this matter has not come now, but it has been before. I think it has an important view, of course, of the acquisition of FORTHNET by Alter EGO, according to the offer given, but it is also a guarantee of the prospect of FORTHNET and the whole company and not just NOVA and others, which had a pioneering start, which created jobs, which is at the top of the technology. Since November 2017, the sale process began and I think that SYRIZA as a government has not taken any measures, has not taken any institutional intervention or change in relation to the procedures for selling and finding a strategic investor. Today you have remembered the subject and I think that the content of your question tells you everything. We place ourselves simply and clearly. To implement all the procedures laid down by letter and the statutory checks provided for by all the competent authorities, authorities and bodies. It is of particular importance, of course, that the decision taken by the Competition Committee, which is necessary, as far as I know, for the process to be completed, as is the opinion of the other committee which regulates the area of postal and telecommunications, the independent National Telecommunications and Post Committee. We say to make the legal and anticipated, what has been done on SYRIZA, I suppose, for the other acquisitions of the same businessman, Doll, "MEGA" etc., unless you tell me that there are other methods, apart from the institutionalised ones, which, as SYRIZA, you have used or not used, you left them for later, and we can tell the government that they are also available to use them. If it is not the institutions, then what? Are there anyone under the table? I do not think you support this today in order to have such a procedure. Through your question, there has been nothing like this, that is, a concrete proposal that is not provided for by the law, but I have only seen your confrontation with a person, Mr Marinakis - you have named him - and not with the system, Mr Papapas, who, not only kept intact for four and a half years, but you have adopted it and used it to the full extent, considering that you have to do with your own people. You thought that this was how you could intervene and guide institutions and independent authorities accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u132	They were all helping us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u133	The system in general, Mr Pappa, not the Marinakis system.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u134	They all helped us, they were for us!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u135	What is constantly revealed for the coarse interventions of your ministers, even these days, is the result of this choice. The political question, then, relating to the attitude of the parties, is: Change policy and reforms to the institutions and changes that lead to progress or simple replacement of persons, placement of volunteers, as the people tell them, and management arrangements? This is the question, which is of course primarily about the governments concerned, but also about the entire political world. The current government proves, day after day, that not only does it have a plan for a change of policy but what it said "we are ready" proves to be a letter void. The same policy and perception continue. Yes, in almost three months we have seen arrangements - there have been - and sporadic modern times for communication, but we have not seen any policy change. It's characteristic that Mr. Tsipras blames you, Ministers, that you've found them ready. At the same time, it accepts - and without 'wood' himself - that he has prepared them. Yes, it is true that he prepared you the bloody surpluses. Yeah, it's true he set up overtax. Yes, it's true that it's his job as the Prespecies Agreement. Yes, it is true that the reduction of social benefits, the reduction of the income of micro-retired people, the disappearance of the ESS and the abolition of the lower ceiling on pensions is a task of SYRIZA and Mr Tsipras. The Katorugalou law gave you ready and you say that you will only change him if there are judicial decisions. Yes, well, you have found them ready, gentlemen of the New Democracy, by Mr Tsipras and not only keep them, but also as an alibi. "But after the previous ones did it," he says. You found the Morians and you keep them. I don't know if the tragic event last night shakes you or if it shakes you. You found the lack of understanding in the national and major groups and you continue with it. If these were good texts, of course, preservation is desirable, although developments want to improve all the time. But you keep the bad texts you receive from the previous ones. I would like to return, however, to this particular issue, because in four and a half years' time - it is interesting - the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has done nothing to strengthen the institutions and procedures for controlling economic concentration, but also to abuse the dominant position. The Competition Committee was strengthened in 2010-2011 with the new internal operating system and operated in accordance with the Greek law incorporating the respective European system. But it has to be constantly strengthened and modernised. You have not made any institutional change or any incision, and you have not added any rules to deal with the creation of a cartel or overconcentration. Did you bring any law to strengthen the role of the Competition Committee, its shield or its extension of competence, and I do not know him? You didn't do any of this. You have ridiculed the Greek people for four and a half years as a so-called left that you have colluded with the extreme right. What you were interested in was placing your own people. The only exception is the process of reaching agreement on the National Broadcasting Council, where we played a decisive role. Because after the first conflict with the decision of the Council of State, you have come to your senses in part and we have failed to reach agreement, despite the criticism we have received from many at the time, Mr Pappa. You have not failed to get your own people around all the independent authorities in the committees, considering that you will be able to settle things from there. You are fully in line with the logic of the traditional New Democracy, which has the same understanding of the role of the state: We establish our own people - those who the people call each - and everything is done through them. That is why there was a fight about whether Thanos or Kyritsakis is better than whether the committee had a good institutional framework or not. That was your debate and your confrontation over the past period. So now, what exactly are you asking for? On the occasion of a takeover by persona non grata on your part, do you want the New Democracy to adopt the rules on the market that you have not established for four and a half years? Is that what you're asking? But the political philosophy is that there are not so many rules and, above all, that there are only the formals, the bureaucrats, in the context of the procedure in force. The crucial issue and the real problem for our perspective is the real concentration of various forms of power, economic and political, in a few hands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And that's not a single person. He's not one. A lot has happened in your term of office. SYRIZA, instead of ruptures and divisions, has simply chosen to set up his own people and the market, to allow them to gather enormous power, provided that they support him politically, partyly and in other ways. You thought if you were able to set up Mr. Kalogritsa and two or three more, would you forever remain in power? That was your purpose? You took the recipe of the traditional right, but you chewed the food, even though you also got the cooks of the right, "Papigopoulos and SIA". That's what you did, so you failed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] What should be done today? And I'm finishing up. What is the national and public interest? Economic developments make the problem of shielding competition even more complex. The institutional framework must be constantly modernised and shielded by unfair practices. We have a strong framework, we have integrated the whole of Europe, but we need continuous support. It is a prerequisite for there to be a desire to take advantage of the strength of politics and of the citizens in this direction, so that the rules can be strengthened, new, and, of course, new, necessary policy change, that there is a structural change in the system. And you, gentlemen of SYRIZA, have proved that you can't and you don't want to. For the New Democracy, we consider this to be a given and it is a presumption that the system will be maintained, that it will not strengthen it, because that was its norm. But you applied him the worst. That is why the Change Movement is here, for effective government control and programming opposition - which is why I tabled proposals - to express the modern needs of society and the country to express the genuine concerns of citizens and not customers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u136	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Christos Boukokoros, MP of the Magnesia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. I find it inconsistent that this question has only been tabled for impression. It serves no essential purpose. But before I get to the contents of the SYRIZA Members' question, I would like to say that it goes very well here that the officers of the Officerial Vice-Population are swinging the finger on the government for Moria, which is an exclusive creation of their own. Of course, we are all saddened by yesterday's incidents and the death of a woman, but it is good to think about how many people have lost their lives in this creation, how many have been killed, how many have been burnt, how many have been frozen on your day in a centre that was the shame of not Greece, but of the whole of Europe. Let's move on to the contents of the question. I said earlier that this question was tabled because SYRIZA does not have any opposition to it and seeks to do so with an agony. Of course, we have heard with great interest SYRIZA Members talking about the creation of verlusconicism phenomena. But I wonder what the businessman with whom you have opened a vendetta - and this is about you, it is not about Parliament and the Greek society - when did he buy it in.gr? When did he buy "THE VIMA", "THE NEWS" and all the media of the Lampraki Historic Group? With what procedures did he get the TV license? Now, is this specific businessman going to become a Berlusconi with FORTHNET? In the media series that he bought on your day, didn't bruising phenomena occur? You're telling us, Mr. Pappa, about the press distribution agency. In fact, we would all like to see two and three press agencies run, so that competition, proper distribution of newspapers and newspapers can operate. But I ask you: Four and a half years of government have you been, why has the creation of a second competing agency not been successful in your days and you are asking for it to thrive in two and a half months, on the days of the New Democracy? Why is that? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] You are telling us here today that the ERT of FORTHNET should buy off the Greek people's money. You will obviously also be supporting the creation of a state press agency, perhaps you will tell us tomorrow, tomorrow, to buy out of the state and all the damages - which are not very little, are a lot, due to a time and a crisis in the press - media. You know, these can happen in other regimes and perhaps in some other times. In Soviet and Venezuela, if you want, Mr. Pappa, this could happen. However, in a Western urban democracy they can't happen. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I heard you all very carefully. Asking questions without seeking answers becomes a boring monologue. Consequently, the environment you are complaining about today has been created on your own days and you have not made a single move. And I wonder: The other day you abandoned the government. Do you not know that each agreement is under the approval of the Competition Committee? Do you not know that, before the agreement is concluded, the Competition Committee cannot decide? Do you not know, while you have been running the country until yesterday, that, even if the Competition Committee decides, no undertaking affected loses the right to retrial when the competition rules are violated? Do you not know that there is a European Competition Committee? But who are you talking about, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that you have run it objectively? Mrs Thanos was unable to separate the court bracelet and wear the SYRIZA partisan beer! And you put it the chairman of the Competition Committee! Is that the objective approach of an independent Commission by the SYRIZA Government? Therefore, the Competition Committee will also give its opinion and the Government cannot push back the facts, because there are no facts now that we are discussing and now that you have rushed to table a question for the sake of an impression. However, I have heard the SYRIZA's chosen parliamentary representative speak of an irresponsible broadcasting scene in that country as if it had not spent years in the PASOK governments, as if it did not have any responsibility. Just as they renounce their responsibilities for Moria and for the situation in the centers of migrants today, the SYRIZA Members are in the same way working on the issue of anarchist broadcasting landscape. It is easy to criticise, but when you have ruled and recently, it is also recent and strong impressions. The Greek people know you're saying more. That is why he sent you from your first term of office, giving self-reliance after many years to the Government of New Democracy. You have not been able to convince yourself at all, because you do not have any arguments or, if you wish, you use the arguments as they suit you. What is it that you're here to suggest to us here today? Against private oligopolis, can we create state monopolies with the Greek people's money?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u138	We're asking. What are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u139	That's exactly what you suggested, Mr. Pappa. In any case, the Competition Committee is there to decide whether or not and when the agreement is concluded and whether or not it is the case that affected undertaking. That is how it happens in democracies, which is how it happens in the system that we believe. If you think you can place your chosen ones and control everyone and everything...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u140	You guys are doing this.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u141	It is not just your inactivity with regard to the phenomena you are complaining about. The license of the channels of business participants in the competition, Mr. Pappa, went out and confessed that they represented the "rabbits". Other businessmen were involved with banks. It's a well-known story. Don't make me talk now about neither Mr. Kalogrisa nor the pastures nor the Attica Bank nor all these phenomena. In any case, to conclude - because the positions and actions of SYRIZA, like the New Democracy, are known - I say: you spoke about the impeccable way you operated the ERT. And well, you might convince us because we're good at it. Euclid Tsakalotus will you convince him that you've run the ERT properly?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u142	You shut it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u143	Please, Mr. Pappa, you haven't interrupted at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u144	We can be persuaded, Mr. Pappa, that you have objectively run the ERT. Mr. Euclid Tsakalotus have you convinced him? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Bukowo, too. There are two other parliamentary representatives left. Mr Syntrakis, Member of the Heraklion Parliament, has the floor on the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. First, the object of the SYRIZA question raises existing and serious issues regarding the possible acquisition of the company 'FORTHNET' by Alter EGO with what this entails. In this very clear case, it is clear that the Government of New Democracy must take a clear position. Of course, in order to put things in place, the more serious the SYRIZA question is, it is also hypocritical. For all, but all the questions and concerns he raises - and rightly so - as criticism of the Government of New Democracy were elements of his own policy as a government in the past four years. And let's get one - one. Did large companies take over and merge with graceful arrangements from the banks, or did SYRIZA takeovers and mergers not take place for days? Obviously, such as the acquisition of Marinopoulos by Skladenite, for example. The banks have been paid a lot by the Greek people with the well-known recapitalisations of many billions. None of you, however, shows similar galantomy - and this concerns both the SYRIZA and the New Democracy and the other parties - that THOMAS COOK's workers should be assured in full, that no one is unpaid or uninsured, that unemployment benefits should be granted for the entire duration of unemployment, that emergency aid should be granted, that their loans and accounts should be frozen. Has there been or has there been any concentration in the media area for days SYRIZA, which, of course, not only prevented, but has the Pappa law facilitated? For example, the merger of ‘ALPHA’ with ‘STAR’. But also in the case where we are discussing this question, the acquisition of so many media over the days of which government happened? Has SYRIZA been made or have no graceful arrangements been made to PAI owners for days? Obviously they were done, such as the law on deletion of debts to a Savvidis company, and indeed, on the last day before the House closed down, as well as the millions granted by the Attica Region for the other OSCE court. Here we have reached a point to bring a bill from the Ministry of Culture and Sport opening across the door to bet companies to intervene more directly, allowing their representatives and shareholders to participate in the shareholder composition of the AOCs, as well as on the board of the Committee of Professional Sports, under the pretext of limiting 15% to their shareholders to proceed with the process. This is not a clear case of unfair competition, similar to that for which the current Government of New Democracy is - and rightly so - controlled. Talking about unfair or legitimate competition is like looking for fleas in the straw. It is not the distortion of competition that produces monopolistic or oligopolistic cartels, but it is the competition that produces them. So, here there is enormous hypocrisy on the part of the New Democracy Government, which is doing what it has denounced SYRIZA, but also on the part of SYRIZA, which has done what it now denounces New Democracy as a government. The pain didn't take either one or the other for the graceful arrangements from banks to big business. The pain didn't even catch you for the concentration in the media area. The pain didn't catch you either for commercialisation and the involvement of business and political interests in the football field and not just. You are fighting New Democracy and SYRIZA because you have been costed behind different business interests and people understand this very well. So stop hiding behind your finger. It's in the nature of the system that big fish eat the little fish. The people have lived through this. It has been experienced by football fans, basketball, other sports that the law of the mighty prevails and that the purpose justifies the means. Of course businessmen do their job. Their interests defend their profits. The question is what the policy is all about. All governments over the years, of the New Democracy today, of SYRIZA yesterday, earlier of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, continue to refuse to adopt the mature JRC proposals for transferring the OSCE from the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which are today, to the Ministry of Development, where they must be checked for their economics, for their assets, for their sustainability. In addition, all debts should be attributed to the State and there should be no special licensing regime and the Greek groups withdrawn from the ‘FAMIMA’. Of course, they do not face the situation as a whole, but they are a further obstacle to the business activity of all these circuits, but they do not even dare to touch them. All the sports bills that have been tabled at times either for sport or for the media show as a pretext the fight against corruption, interoperable, lawlessness, but the main aim is to adapt the legislative environment to the strategy of the European Union and the capital to define the scope of business action and the conflict of old and new 'jackets', that is to say, to lay down certain rules in order not to lose the ball of competition between big businessmen, but with a clear aim to facilitate capitalist profitability in this area as well. It is clear that capitalism that dominates profit and competitiveness, objectively and socially good sport has been transformed into a commodity subjected to the gain's altar with huge economic interests, complicated and conspiracy to the media, with parasitic investments linked to professional sport, particularly football, which has become the field of political and economic interplay and major scandals. For the JRC - and I shall end with this, Mr President - the real resolution of sport and the media entails demolition of the rotten building that has its support to the big businessmen, to the political, sporting and midian players with whom they are interconnected and who are part of these business complexes of other activities either by buying up toys or valorising up black money, or by redeeming the love of thousands of fans for their clubs in order to form and build a so-called popular profile and to pave the way for other economic and business planning. The only control that can bring about substantial results is social labour controls in conditions of the people's economy and power, in which sport will be a popular right and the media will serve the popular need for genuine objective information beyond and outside of business objectives and competition. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, too. I call on the last of the parliamentary representatives, Mr Gregoriadis, a Member of Parliament in the B1 of the Northern Athens Sector, to take the initiative from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since I have the privilege and honour, I would say, as a Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, that I can speak where and where from this Stepma, which is the Step of the Greek Parliament, first - I seize the opportunity of apologise on behalf of all of us from the international community, from our children, from all the refugees and immigrants of this world, wherever they may be, for our small national cross-party intent called Moria and which just last night sent to death a little child and his mother. In the famous acquisition of "FORTHNET", which among other things owns the subscribing sports channels "NOVASPORTS", by the "ALTER EGO" group of ownership and interests of the well-known big-shipped Vangelli Marinaki, really seems to be happening some strange things. The first strange thing is that once this takeover takes place, the president of Olympiacos PAE will automatically have the absolute control of the cash flows, i.e. the basic revenues for many other PAEs, which are receiving opponents of his own PAE. The second and even more bizarre of the odds that will emerge, if this is finally the case, is that the shipowner Marinakis will now control a wide range of media, such as the former Doll’s literature and webpages, the newspaper and radio “PARAPOLITICA”, the internet, but very briefly - than it sounds - and TV channel “ONE” and even - the monopoly in the distribution of the press, through the control of the "AGROS” press. Perhaps this latter may also be the most important problem for the functioning of our democracy, as the owner of multiple forms also owns the only distribution agency of all these forms. The debate in plenary has evolved, as we have expected, in a battle of impressions about who is the representative of business interests and who is not, within the general framework of the transfer of the political agenda from the real policy, since the signing of the third memorandum is largely and fatally shared between the two major parties. So SYRIZA obviously wants to build his progressive philosophical profile, trying to convince us that he is more honest than New Democracy, that he has no commitments and political notes to pay back. Maybe to some extent it's like this. However, in our view, SYRIZA should instead try to build this profile on the basis of its political choices on the issues that have the greatest influence on Greek society now, namely the economy, employment and social policy. On the other hand, Mera25 is directly saying that it is extremely worrying indeed to gather the press at the hands of a businessman. Is there a deal with the government? It's very likely. However, this is a matter of justice, both to consider it and to decide on it. There are also indications that there are too many aspects of the television rights of the UAE and the creation of mainly oligomonopoly conditions in the operation of the press. Once again, however, the Competition Committee is responsible for dealing with these issues, which, as an independent authority, should examine them with vigilance and conscientiousness and of course unaffected by political pressure or entrepreneurial pressure. Of course, the importance shown by the New Democracy Government to rapidly replace the administration of the Competition Committee gives us great concern about the unbundling nature that it must have. We therefore warn you that we will closely monitor the work of the committee, its actions and, in particular, its omissions. In order to be absolutely honest, however, in this House, even the existence of many different channels of different owners, but which, at the same time, put forward the same messages, do not in the end constitute any pluralism. It is, on the contrary, the end of pluralism's stimulus to a completely monophony reality. In fact, the problem is that in our country, unfortunately, there is no institution or body that can formulate a democratic and stable policy for the functioning of the media in general. Receives the words of Umberto Eko: "Today a country belongs to the one who controls its media." So what the media scene in Greece needs is, above all, the establishment of democratic control, with the aim of eventually becoming human rights and access to truth and freedom of expression and thus turning the media from propaganda mechanisms into channels of information, interaction and creativity. PART25 will establish the Counselling Council of Curators and Elected Citizens for the Media, and this Council will have a mandate for the following four: One, the reassessment of the criteria for obtaining a television licence mainly by imposing quality and not only quantitative criteria anymore. Two, the socialisation of the ERT, which, in order for it to be truly public in nature, should be governed by a board of directors elected by the consultative board of judges and elected citizens and accountable solely to it without any future government intervention. Three, the conversion of the National Audiovisual Archive to an independent public body with scientific staff ensuring that it is used and safeguarded under the supervision of the Conservative Council of Curators and Elected Citizens for the Media. Four, the revision of the contract with DIGEA Digital Provider S.A., which is a unique, perhaps global, Greek originality, to be at the same time a network and content provider, as, as we all know here, the DIGEA, which provides the signal to private channels - and therefore, since it provides it, is also called upon to monitor the fair use of frequencies - belongs to these same private channels and interests. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, too. Now we're going to the final stage. Here's the seconds. Because everyone was given the comfort in protology to complete everyone's thoughts, time will be fully applied. Mr. Poppas has five minutes. The others have three minutes, except Mrs. Skoufa. Times will be observed. The speeches will be made from your position for the three minutes, except Mr. Poppa who has five minutes. The Ministers will respond after the second readings. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou will take the floor for a second and the ministers will be closed. It is a good request, however, because time has been given in comfort to protology, that absolute time be observed in denology. Here you go, Mr. Pappa. You have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. I think the side of the New Democracy has not understood that our party has no vendetta with anyone. Or rather it has a permanent vendetta with anyone who affects the public interest, as our own party sees it. And don't make any impressions to you. Those without permission, when we tried the first competition, wanted the competition to be completed. The others undermined him. Absolutely reasonable. I don't understand. In fact, you are now coming and accuse the process that has for the first time ensured that the Constitution is respected on private television. Read a little bit of the licensed fodder. They say 'taking into account Mr.4339'. In view of the fact that Law4339 gives authorisations. And can I tell you something? Don't you have a majority? Don't look at where you don't bring it now, because we're talking sensitive issues and you're three - four in here. You have a majority. What do you want to change to Mr.4339? Tell us about it. Because Mr.4339 is now on the table. This unconstitutional, authoritarian law Pappa. You are a hundred and fifty eight MPs. Yes, sir. So get here the law and your Chief to say the incoherent things that he said when we discussed it, that the licenses should be sixteen and twenty-four, and we are discussing again. The public will receive money because the first competition took place, gentlemen, in the three days that the notorious auction took place. She took note of the PSE to say that the licence will be 35 million. The PSE, because this is where we have heard reasons for defending the independent authorities. Do you remember it was the PSE when we started our license attempt? He was with two members. The terms were over and you couldn't have found PASOK and New Democracy to reappoint. You blackmailed us at all times in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency and told us 'We are not going to consent to the establishment of the National Television Council'. Don't talk about the Competition Committee. We know each other in here. You ask us for Ms Thanos at the time that Mr Mylonakis, Director of the Office of the President of the Competition Committee, was at the same time and advisor, with FEK, to the Minister for Administrative Reform, at the time, Mrs Mitsotakis. The man, in other words, was the secret of the chairman of the Competition Committee, and at the same time he was drinking coffee with Mr Mitsotakis. What can anyone assume? What strange flow of information could be developed over there? So to a large extent the defence of the independent authorities, behind which you are now hiding. We have therefore learned that the Competition Committee will respond. We found out after our timely question. We didn't know that before. Before, everything was on the autopilot. It's okay. It was fine. You blamed us for inappropriateness. "FORTHNET" - "NOVA" had received bond loans with a three-year grace period. So there was no development at all. Finish this story and seek an investor. An investor emerged, took the exclusive right to negotiate and when the period in which he had this right was closed, the offer came from Mr Marinakis. Because we said 'to stop children, is there a matter of conflict of interest', are you giving us that we didn't do what? What are you going to do now? These empty benches are your political and moral defeat. Do you know what message the businessman gets? That he can empty it anytime he wants. Well, here's the picture. Where are the populars to make us an attack to get an interesting conversation? Is that what you're gonna do? Every time we hurt him, will the first-class people disappear and of the hundred and fifty-eight, will you be three-four? Watch out for what's happening on your sidelines. Be very careful. We told you before. 1992 and 1994 were only two years away. And the mighty Christian Democrat Party was formed in one of them. Finally, we want a clear answer: ERT has a reserve of 200 million. Do you choose to sit there stealing and not exploiting it, now that there is the possibility of getting into other technologies? Why are you doing this? So look at how many problems can be solved if this proposal comes to an end. And don't tell us about the Greek people's money, because the Greek people's money is laundered by the "FORTHNET" loans to facilitate this gentleman. So Greek people's money can either make it easier for the gentleman to take the company, or make it easier for the Greek fan, the Greek consumer, who will be able to have a public television with an even bigger displacement, which you have booked in order. Here's Rhodes! So tell us public money to one, public money to the other. For what? But empty benches have given their answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u151	Thank you. Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. I appreciate that, following the speeches by the State Secretarys of State, Mr Petsa and Mr Papathanases: Behind the government's advice to act in the direction of protecting him - as far as possible - unfavourable competition in the present system is concerned, the Government's absolute subjection to a specific business interest is hidden. It is clear, and this has been seen by the awkward - at least - positions which we have heard today. Because you know, Mr Ministers, Mr Secretary-General, the independent authorities do not replace the executive. You have not even dared to say that you are concerned about the image presented before you, you are concerned about the monopoly in press distribution, you are concerned about a possible development of concentration, you are concerned and you are concerned about a possible development of conflicts of interest from the possible acquisition of 'FORTHNET' by 'ALTER EGO'. Nor have you dared to say that you have not even dared to tell us that you will take care of and that you will do what your responsibilities require in order to ensure that competition becomes unfavourable. On the contrary, you chose to come here to make one reading of the principles of operation of the two independent authorities, which are responsible for this matter. But I will tell you this, Mr Secretaries: you have not read the law well and have not learned your lesson well. At the request of the Minister of Economy, Competitiveness and Shipping or on its own initiative the Competition Committee examines a specific sector of the Greek economy which falls within its competence and if it finds that there are no conditions of effective competition in this sector and considers that the application of Articles 1, 2 and 5 to 10 is not sufficient to create conditions of effective competition, it may, by reasoned decision, take any necessary measures, etc. So the question you are asked is this: will you do so in the Competition Committee? Will you do it? Do you dare answer? Not to escape, not to escape, not to turn through independence. The question is up to you: Will you make the request? Are you worried? Are you problematic or you don't mind, and you just watch and let things move as they have been canalized after the businessman's initiatives? Just stuff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u153	Finish, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u154	I'll finish in thirty seconds. I could tell you a lot because you told us what you wouldn't do. I could tell you a lot about what you have done, about the way you have removed the Board of Directors of the Independent Competition Authority. There is a suspicion here, and there is a suspicion here, because you will know very well that the Competition Committee had, on its own initiative, carried out research and concrete measures on the situation in the distribution of the press. Allow me, Mr President, because my prology was exactly in five minutes, there was no tolerance on your part, I ask you to be tolerant now. So what did you do? You canceled the ERT contracts with the teams and suddenly only a few weeks later, the offer to buy out FORTHNET, which finances the remaining AUE through contracts for their television rights by Alter EGO, the company of this businessman. What's going on here? Isn't that too many coincidences? My opinion is that your submission to this businessman is absolute. And I close by saying this. Please put the request to the Competition Committee and do not avoid responding to the proposal made to you by Mr Pappas that, at the moment, the Government is able to act differently. You've put Mr. Zoula on the ERT. Talk to him, tell him that ERT should use its reserve or a piece of its reserve, so that he can acquire that "FORTHNET" and so that there are guarantees for the continuity of the company and for the thousands of employees, but also to avoid all those possible consequences of the acquisition of "FORTHNET" by "ALTER EGO", consequences that lead to conflicts of interest and concentration in the press as well as in the Greek Football Championship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u155	Mr Marios Katsis has the floor. Mr. Janakopoulou was right, proportionately judging, for time. Mr. Katsis has gone far beyond time. So please finish in three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr President. I want to respond by speeding up some things that have been heard and that have been held back. First of all, I should like to address the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative. First of all, we have heard your opinion, dear colleague. But we did not hear the view of the government. There has been a clear proposal. You can't leave this box. You will answer either now or in a reasonable time. Will you consider the possibility of ERT buying the network of NOVA and FORTHNET, this proposal that we have tabled? Why if it is to become a Soviet, as the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has said, then what will we do? Columbia, are we going to be? In the case of your own, when you replaced the Competition Committee, the way you replace it, with ad hoc rules, against the European institutional framework, when you appointed a man without a degree in the EEA, what can we say to you that you are doing to us North Korea and that Kyriakos Mitsotakis can now be called Kim? Shall we say it? You're government. You must now assume your responsibilities. It is very cheap argument to hide behind the independence of the authorities. Do you have an opinion? Can you say something, make a word? We analyzed a specific plan. It could therefore further develop all audiovisual productions throughout the network of NOVA and FORTHNET. There is the institutional framework. You told us that Panathinaikos was taking 6,200,000. You lied, Minister. The amount that Panathinaikos received before VAT was 5,000, with VAT it was 6,200,000. The net fee was 4,150,000, of which, Minister, 3,926,000 were retentions on the arrangements. They're all back to the public. All of it! And what did you hurry to say? What revenue have the contracts of Panathinaikos and Mars brought from advertising? When? In a year of operation? Do you know what they brought? They brought 30% viewing to the most dynamic audiences, the youth and the people of the family, for which otherwise you are cut. You also want to bring a law for the vote of the relatives. The expatriates, who come from Thesprotia, from any county in Germany, were entitled on our own initiative to see the team of their region free of charge with Super League 2 and Football League. What do you have to say about them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u157	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u158	And even a popular sport, like football, to see the Greek fan free of charge. Not to pay a contribution of EUR 40 and 50 a month to enjoy it or be forced to go out to the cafes. That's not what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u159	Good. You're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u160	One final sentence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u161	Especially you had the most time in protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u162	One last sentence. If you really care very much about the public interest and want to save resources and money, can you tell us in the budget you will bring in a few days for the financial year 2020, if Mr Augias' announcement on the reduction of UAE taxation from 45% to 22%, and what does that mean for the public interest and the State's revenues? Unless you consider middle class the big business owners of the FAO and the fatly paid professional footballers, when you know that television rights can be granted from other platforms, while ERT did not allow this. He asked for tax information and insurance information. So you're absolutely out of your mind. Your argument is very cheap! You won't hide behind your responsibilities! We'll be here to reveal you every day!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Floor Alexiadis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, I would like to ask you a question of a procedural nature out of time, because I did not want to take the floor on staff. So every time, when I make a political point of criticism to the government, will you get the services running in the Minutes to have answers? Don't make them go look at night. Why am I going to say when it is time to discuss the timely question - which was to be discussed on Friday, but did not come to the Ministry of Finance and when will it be discussed - when SYRIZA brought legislative action on 31 December to give taxes to the media of the period? You're gonna have them lookin'?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u165	Did you finish the question? Continue with your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u166	I've completed the question. Let's go to the placement now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u167	But I won't answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u168	Anytime.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u169	They judge and compare.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u170	Please just help the Treasury and you come to the Treasury to answer the timely question. We have heard about respect for the institutions by Mr Papathanassis. And there really is a question mark here. Today, exactly what we are asking with our current question is the need to respect the institutions. And you come here and make parliamentary and legal - I think - a great mistake. You filed a document from the National Bank. What did you say? That the government is not interfering. And the government sent a document to the National Bank and the National Bank responds. And I ask: what about the Bank of Greece? Who is responsible for supervising the banks? Does the Ministry of Finance send questions to the banks to answer and does not send it to the independent authority, to the Bank of Greece, which will determine whether or not it has competence? And there's another question I don't understand. Why just the National Bank? Is this the only bank related to the whole story? Why not the other banks? These are serious political issues to which there must be an answer. Also, Minister, when you ask a question to a party's question, and the bank asks you: 'At the moment we are in the process of examining this proposal', you cannot say that I know nothing, and they're basing blacks' and I do not take a position. Because your bank's answering, so you're obliged to take a seat. As far as what has been said here about manipulation of the independent authorities and interventions, etc., because you were in positions of responsibility, Mr Papathanassis, on board management boards, since 1989-2014 - and you did well to offer to the Greek State - I would like to remind you that in 2014 where specific auditors, they controlled a friend of the then Prime Minister, a major executive - who did not have time to give his name on a street or a square, and I hope that it will be done in this period - there was violent intervention in these auditors. And quite rightly one of them filed a report, not as some other judicial officer who, when resigned, remembered that there were interventions in her work, but did not report back at the time. I say that to remember manipulation. I now come to the point you raised, Mr Pecha, in your position. I expected you to answer the question. It's what Mr. Bukouros said. Questions without answers. Today we have asked questions. We didn't get answers. For the rest, we understand. We've figured out what position KINAL has in the whole case. He says it's SYRIZA's fault in this case! We understood that. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. But what remained unanswered - and I ask you to reply to your dentistry - is that of the 37 billion in a special account in the General Accounting Office of the State - do you have a very good picture of the General Accounting Office of the State and of all procedures - will the banks be given money? And if so, what are the features? Finally, because Mr Kegeroglu is missing, I would like to make it clear to him that as an Olympiacos fan, I prefer my team, the Nikos Goda team - for those who do not know history - to win the championships on the stadiums and not outside them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u171	Mr. George Tsipras has the floor, which in protology was accurate in his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u172	We got it, we got it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u173	We are also from the same region.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, an introductory comment on the 40 billion costs of 2015. Because it also happens to be a colleague with Mr Papathanassis, engineers and both of you, by your own executives, have heard sixty, eighty-six, ninety, a hundred, twenty and two hundred. The fact that for the first time I hear you go down to forty, first you're on a good path, just to tell you that you even have another way in front of you. Because you're an engineer, it's easy to prove mathematically that all of this is flammable. It's math before anyone even gets into politics. As long as you continue, you're being exposed. And you are exposed, of course, to the many numbers we hear. When both percent and two hundred and so on, it's wrong all the reasoning and self-pitying. On substance: You chose to hide behind your finger, and you and Mr. Petsas. What did you tell us? That you respect the independent authorities. You have chosen to identify yourself with a specific one today. See: There are other countries in the European Union. There are other governments and there are other independent authorities and there are, if you like, independent authorities of the European Union itself. It's not true what you're saying. Justice may have the power to make a decision in a court on a particular case, but on whether there is in general legality or justice in the country, the first responsibility lies with the government. Whether the market is functioning properly in general, the first responsibility lies with the government. Whether the banks operate properly, the first responsibility lies with the government. Whether the channels until 2015 operated as they operated, it is not primarily the PSE, but the previous governments had it. Don't hide behind our fingers. Secondly, you know very well that there have been dozens of incidents throughout Europe in recent years. There are deals supported by a government, there are deals prevented by a government, there is a particular economy from a world power - I do not want to say what it is - that in recent years we have interventions by governments and do not have the same powers and rights - to say so - that it had a few years ago and so on. No one has asked you to intervene in the Competition Committee yet. No one asked for that. But you have the right to ask the Competition Committee a question. And to clarify it, because it's probably gonna be the next finger behind you, you have the right to ask a question even before the deal is closed. And that's what's important. As was done for many other cases in Europe. Are you gonna do it or do you really want that deal? And because you told us that there have been incomplete efforts so far and a investor has finally been found, I should like to tell you that there are other companies that have found investors, but, paradoxically, they have been frozen. For Elefsina Shipyard there has been a memorial of understanding after a great effort of ours in the summer between banks, government, Ministry of National Defence, the former owner and the new investor, in order to proceed with an agreement that will make the shipyards viable and secure the work of six hundred workers there. Is that why he's frozen? Be careful, the haircut is much smaller than 80%, which is foreseen in the case of the Marinaki Group. So you're still hiding behind your finger on all the issues. And I come to something last: to the oligarchs. First of all, nobody has accused us of supporting one of the fewer, even our worst rivals for four and a half years. Tell us one of the stars! Nobody! The issue of oligarchs is extremely important because, you know, fewer people exist mainly in Eastern European countries, within and outside the European Union. Wherever you ask a political analyst around the world, he will tell you two things: firstly, no one of the fewers has ever been strengthened without the will of the government, regardless of whether they have been fought later - and things have been said about this, I do not want to expand - and, secondly, where there are strong fewer people, the Competition Committees are working a bit worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u175	And we're closing the dentures with Mr. Burnus for two minutes. In the protology you had 50% increment, the three minutes became four minutes and twenty-one seconds. It goes proportionally, doesn't go numerical. They're writing it here, the Services...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u176	You're forcing me to say again that the last name is on the table.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u177	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u178	Mr Petsas spoke again about the infamous argument that millions of euros of Greek citizens are being rescued by the withdrawal of ERT from television rights. And that's what government says? The government that has announced since the first days of its term of office the reduction in half the taxation of professional contracts in football, the exact professional contracts in football. So what do they save? Not only do they save, but they give the U.S. money without any reward for the people. Secondly, you do not return 1 euro to the taxpayers' pocket. Mr. Petsa, I don't know where you're staying, but in the neighborhood where I live in Athens and Mytilini, the retired person, the beneficiary of the CRL, the unemployed or the student counts the money to come out every month, and now you're pushing him to buy a subscription to the payroll so he can see the football matches, which he was seeing until this year for free. Thirdly, you're cut off on ERT's revenue. If you really are cut, let us get away from the Greek Championship, which may be anti-commercial with the criteria of other major foreign championships, and let us ask ourselves, why is this the first time that Euro 2020, with huge television revenues from advertising on the channels that play such an event, will not be broadcast by ERT, but by ANT1? Was it that expensive walking with Mr. Sunday's helicopter? I'm finishing up with a rhetorical question. I, as a fan of the football, think that during the four years of SYRIZA, there were three different football teams that won the football championship. I can inform you that none of these three are the team I support, but I think it is quintuosia that raises the level of the football championship. I would like to make a rhetoric question to New Democracy MPs I and II: Do they really welcome or agree with the Prespes Championship and return to normality?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u180	Mr Buquoir, you have the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u181	I am not going to go into the substance, Mr President, but because we are heading toward the end of this timely question of the Members of Parliament of the New Democracy, I would like to remind my dear colleagues that we are not in plenary session. We are discussing a timely question, signed by seventy SYRIZA Members and presenting themselves here just twelve now, while under the Rules of Procedure, government MPs would not have the right to speak. So what are the SYRIZA colleagues telling us? Will the Members of the New Democracy come here to make an impression at the moment of their opposition, because their dissident speech keeps plunging and declining? So we say that seventy SYRIZA Members have signed the timely question...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u182	Forty-four Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u183	Forty-four and they are only in the Chamber twelve and are complaining about the few Members of the New Democracy, who have no right to speak! This is an absolute distortion of reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u184	Thank you. Undersecretary, Mr. Papathanasis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President. Clearly here, ladies and gentlemen, we have talked about respect for the institutions and the independent authorities and, indeed, I saw Mr Alexiades' agony when he sought whether this is the first time that two Undersecretaries come to answer a question. Mr Alexiadis, the first time is yours. We're giving it to you. Turns out it's not the first time. This is the first time that led Greece to suffering, which we are trying to expel today. We are therefore giving you the first time. In reply to Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, which referred to a Balkan type of democracy, I would like to say to you, Madam Xinoyannakopoulou, that from the outset New Democracy was intended to join the European Union and had a clear European orientation. Of course, at the difficult time, in August 2015, it voted so that Greece would not come out of the European Union. So you need to look for in the first half of your governance, where the country will be driven to, what kind of Balkan-type economy, but of course not modern Balkan-type economy but of the Balkan-type economy of Hodja and Zivkov. We are therefore returning this to you. Let us now talk about the independent authorities and respect Mr Janakopoulos said that they do not substitute the government. Mr. Janakopoulou, I think you're talking about rope in the house of the hanged man. I would like to tell you that the issue of the Committee on Competition has been raised by you on a very important point, bringing Mrs Thanos with a very serious CV. And we are not talking about judicial abilities, but about the fact that the former Prime Minister first chose it for the post of head of his legal office and then appointed President of the Competition Committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u186	We know that. You've told us!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u187	Listen to them a little so you can remember them. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u188	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u189	...an independent authority which is required to be a supra-party.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u190	You've told us this before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u191	Please don't interrupt, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Janakopoulos, don't interrupt me. You'll hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u193	We are not interrupting, but there is a deaf dialogue here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u194	Now you are asking whether the Competition Committee should deal with the case. But that's under the law. When the time comes, the Competition Committee will be seized.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u195	Don't interrupt! What do you want? Why are you protesting? Let the Minister answer. The Minister will answer without a vacation, as you have heard. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u196	Do you know why the committee changed, Mr. Janakopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u197	Will you answer the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u198	They're ignoring their role!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u199	Don't get upset. I'll see you around.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u200	I'm fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u201	It is a good request for colleagues not to interrupt. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u202	The composition of the Committee on Competition has changed, because it is not allowed in this committee, that there should be a person who serves and could identify it with a political party. The new persons who make up this committee shall be over-party and above any question. They are professionals and scientists of renowned prestige and will be judged for their work when their time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u203	Will you answer the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u204	We keep going because I saw your agony. Of course, Mr. Tsipras, you're not in a hurry. Because if you had solved the matter, it would have been solved. Here it comes to this government to resolve the Elefsina issue. We will then see how it develops. For four and a half years you have not solved the matter, Mr Tsipras. And so much you're fighting today about when it's going to be solved. We're two and a half months government. We are trying to deal with all these issues that you left. And the completion of the Syros Youth and Scaramaga and ELVO. I remind you of ELVO if you've forgotten her. I want to pick up your agony and tell you about the banks. The banks have a regulatory framework, which is regulated in accordance with the guidelines and guidelines of the European Central Bank. You know that very well. You spoke about what is going to happen and how the deal will turn out. We told you the deal was under way. You got the two letters from the banks. Let me tell you something. Respect for the institutions means that we come here and bring with us whatever documents are capable and necessary, so that you can be informed, Mr Alexiadis. It's not a letter. We have brought you documents from both "National" and "PIRAIS" and from the Competition Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u205	In fact, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u206	It doesn't matter. We have brought you the documents, which have come from your question, just to be informed. Isn't that what we should do? Was it bad that we brought the documents to the House? Then - just to see the process and understand it - the Bank of Greece exercises supervision over the credit institutions of the country. It is understood that its administration and all its institutions shall neither seek nor take instructions from the Government. They're independent bodies too. In any case, the redemption scenario of a company compared to the case of its violent liquidation - and you know it well - leads to fewer losses both for the institutions themselves and for the entire market. I am referring to everything, everything that exists in a company and, above all, of course, the protection of workers. I saw that you were nervous about the issue of sustainability and business in general. I would like to tell you that at the moment the Greek economy is coming out of a crisis that you have imposed. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] You're the one who imposed her and don't laugh. Respect for institutions, gentlemen! The present government from the beginning...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u207	Shadow theater!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Dritsa, excuse me, but I've never seen this concern before. Don't be alarmed, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u209	Don't rush, you'll hear it all. The present government has started working hard since the first day, because the country cannot afford to give a period of grace. Our aim is to implement a programme that will transform Greece into a pro-investing and pro-business site - and that is obviously annoying you - by ejecting growth and thus giving financial space for prosperity and for the implementation of our programme. We have promoted many reforms. I should like to take note of the bill which comes to simplify procedures, speed up business authorisation, reduce business taxation to 24% for 2020 and 20% in 2021, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, strengthen their competitiveness and step up red tape. We are also bringing the arrangements for the general commercial register, the evaluation of new technologies and administrative tools. If you are concerned, then, with sustainability and entrepreneurship, we are answering that you have done nothing to safeguard them. I now come to the question of control of the media market. You do have a sensitivity, but I think it's very hypocritical. Let us remind you, therefore, that you have indirectly violated the Constitution with your law, Mr Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u210	But it applies! Change him!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u211	You invest a lot to check the information area. You have acted with authoritarian perceptions in an attempt to manipulate and degrade the role of the PSE. You have even attempted, with the declaration of the four successful tenderers, to put a lock on the operating stations that had not been auctioned, despite the fact that the decision of the Council of State was pending, a regulation which would lead to the unemployment of thousands of workers. That's all New Democracy stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u212	But we were ruling!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u213	The channels would have been closed on the basis of this unconstitutional competition to satisfy your plans. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy, the Government, is on a course of strong development of a European orientation. Strong growth will enable the financial area, so that taxes too will decrease and strengthen the social strata that they really need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u214	The Foreign Minister, Mr Stelios Petsas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u215	Mr President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u216	You cannot submit it to that procedure. If you wish, your parliamentary representative will have the floor after all. Ask the question in order to submit it, since you have the right. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. To say beforehand, of course, that when I refer to a name that was written by a Member of Parliament, I do so purely politically and without any personal disposition. And I'm just going to do it for understanding the answers I'm going to give to the questions I've received but one. Mr. Katsy said I lied. In my village, it's a serious offense to tell someone she lied to. In the next sentence you said exactly what I said to him, that the Panathinaikos cost ERT 6.2 million euros. You have the opportunity to call it off for your dignity. You can come back now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u218	Minister, I do not approve of this procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u219	I gave it a chance to withdraw. He said exactly the same number I said. On the subject of the ARGOS agency, which I heard was open to discussion, when did Alter EGO buy the ARGOS agency? Did it happen in 2016? When did the Competition Committee, led by Mrs Thanos, give its final approval? Was it in 2018? I am hypocrisy and not more as far as the agency is concerned. As far as ERT is concerned, both Mr Janakopoulos and Mr Burnus raised the question. They asked why they took EURO 2020 'ANT1'. When did he get it? Maybe May? Was it finalised in June? Who was government then? As regards the issue of 'assistance to friends', 'the friendly direct investment', as Mr Tsipras said, you need to know something about 'friends with collaterals'. Does the pastor say anything to you or others who acted as "crowds" for others? We don't have such friends. Hypocrisy here too. As regards what Mr Alexiadis said - 150 million euros went aside for housing loans, people who were unable to serve them - he rightly said so. They're getting out of the way. How much were disbursed? EUR 2 million was disbursed. I refer to statements by the State Secretary responsible for these matters, Mr Pylakakis, which means that it was an inappropriate regulation. I hope that we can correct this regulation and that is where all Parliament's wings are putting their backs on it. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou said - and Mr Pappas said at first - that there is a reason for the government for the banks to sell or settle red loans. That's what I understood from your position. What exactly did you say, since the government had a say on 5-10-2017, when Eurobank sold 1.5 billion red loans for 45 million? With a simple "gumbling" you will find exactly what I say: 45 million 97% of the haircut in "Instrum". I don't remember you saying anything. Maybe you weren't at SYRIZA at the time, maybe you were in another party. Well, you didn't say anything. It's hypocritical to abandon us now, for something that the banks will do and what can be done. On the subject of 'cushion', I would like to ask: Where has the 'cushion' been created? The "cushion" was created because you have taken multiple measures from what they asked you with the third unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum but with much less funding and at the end of the program, this money was put aside, because Greece had no credibility, so that it could borrow at tolerable rates from the markets. We put aside money because we couldn't afford to be borrowed by the markets. This is the final confession of the failure of the third memorandum. When it was over, we'd go out on the markets.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u220	That is not what anyone has said in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u221	The money of the "cushion" is of the Greek citizens who paid for it with blood, with multiple measures of austerity from the ones provided for in the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u222	What are you gonna do with it? Where are you going to give them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u223	As far as, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, the issue of neoliberal New Democracy is concerned, let me say that the chips are really tired of the world. The New Democracy is an open party, a centre-right folk party. It has nothing to do with what you're saying neoliberal. I would like to close by saying something about Mr Velopoulos, who made a show about immigration. Whatever we said, we do. We said we would speed up asylum procedures. That was decided today. We have said that we will have closed pre-regulatory centres for those who are not entitled to asylum or for those who are illegal. We're doing it. We said we would increase the returns to Turkey in implementation of the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration. We're doing it. We said we'd guard our sea borders. Yes, we have a maritime border and we'll keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u224	How did you do it? One of you came back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u225	We'll see, Mr. Burnus. We said ten thousand returns in 2020. A thousand eight hundred six returned the previous government four and a half years. With regard to the other issues that have been raised about ERT, I have to say that ERT will be judged on its impartiality and objectivity. Let's give her the opportunity to do it. You, with the contracts you signed or promised, did not give her any opportunity to make a programme. He had 88 000 euros for the development of a programme. How would he make a schedule?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u226	It has 200 million reserves.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u227	With regard to the 200 million or the cash available to ERT, I say that socialism ends with the money of others. That phrase is known. Others' money's over. The taxpayers don't have any money to make the parties micropolitical. ERT's money, Greek taxpayers' money will not be given where the rulers in question think to be micropolicy. The ERT - as you know those who were and those who were at the meeting that took place to define its administration - must present a plan, the plan will be considered by the shareholder and will give the administration the opportunity to be judged on the basis of the implementation plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Katsi, I'll give you a minute to tell me what the staff is made up of.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u229	The Minister asked me...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u230	That's not personal. I understand what he has asked for, but in any case - because we are listening here too - you have a minute to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. Minister, do you know why I'm not withdrawing? For the simple reason that, in my speech from Stepa, I have referred to you and compared similar amounts. So I talked about it clean. I mentioned to you, recognizing the figures, that the funds spent by ERT on the Panathinaikos are 4.150 million, of which 3,926 million went back to the Greek State because of the retentions of the arrangements made by the Greek State. So if you want to count on your VAT expenses, it is your right. In any case, however, you did not respond, Mr Petsa, because Panathinaikos, with a net figure of 4.15 million, went to the NOVA 5.5 million by the ERT. That's what you didn't answer for the truck. So my criticism is that you are trying to present Panathinaikos and Mars as a devalued product, namely that they would hit cheaper prices on the market, while on the substance they were hit more expensive, Mr Petsa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u232	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u233	Here you go, Mr. Pecha. However, we must not extend this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u234	Thank you. You didn't recall, although I gave you a chance. You said exactly 6.2m euros. The VAT is not deductible from the ERT. Ask the previous administration, if you want, if you don't trust the new one. Ask who you want anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u235	Isn't that VAT assigned?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u236	I said 6.2 million, you said 6.2 million. You had the right to withdraw. Then you said about the viewing, comparing the amount with the viewing. It's completely disparate. You compared things unparalleled, not me. I told you how much the Panathinaikos cost ERT and the numbers I said were exactly the same as what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u237	Mr President, please for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u238	No, there's no need for any dialogue. When you're done, find the Minister. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u239	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, the embarrassment and difficulty of the two present ministers, on a point which is clear that the Government has not yet decided how to make its position public, is quite understandable. We've heard new things. First of all, there has been a criticism of Qualified Opposition, because it is using the right - which has the right - of the Constitution and the Rules - to exercise opposition. And, of course, the fact that we have chosen our first topical question to be on this issue is precisely because we believe it is a crucial issue for democracy, for how the media works, for the issue of banks after ten years of crisis, which you have also acknowledged before, and why, of course, there are open issues to which we did not receive the answers we would expect to receive. Not necessarily the answers we want, but at least we get answers. And we have also heard another new theory, Mr President, from the two present ministers, that the governments, in their opinion, are neutral to the functioning of the market, that while the law provides for the possibility and obligation of banks and of the independent authorities, the independent authorities do not come to replace the expression of popular sovereignty or, of course, the obligation you have, as expressing the popular sovereignty and the majority of the House, to fulfil these constitutional obligations. I too, Mr Papathanassis, have not talked about Balkan democracy, I have spoken about the Balkan view of neo-liberalism that you are using a la carte, that is, you are neo-liberal when it comes to downgrading labour rights, the social state or the public sector, but you have other concepts of traditionality, as regards customer and intertwined relationships, or the abstention of any free market that is primarily a sign of Europeanism, because as you know very well, the heart of the European Treaty is the internal market and the competition law. The European Commission can, unfortunately, close its eyes, such as freezing the chapter on social rights and social Europe, but it is endless in competition matters and you will find it in front of you. Now, from there on, on the issues that have been raised, such as why we are now asking these questions and why we are now asking this question, I should like to tell you this. The honourable Member, the majority parliamentary representative, said so. For, Ministers, at the moment, in the light of developments, we are interpreting differently and complementaryly the coup move you have made with the amendment that was both photographic and retrospective and anti-constitutional and against European legislation, no matter how you judge Mrs Thanos or the people. It's not a matter of faces here. It is institutional, it is a matter of law and European law. We have to ask questions, because this light is now falling. We now have to ask questions, because we are talking about the 37 billion-dollar pillow. This pillow was clearly from the sacrifices of the Greek people, but why did we have to guard this pillow? Because it was precisely the guarantee of independence and autonomy again in our country, our economy, the exit into the markets for which you are now getting it. Let me remind you, because you have now landed on the ground, that you are now admitting it, while you were denying it as long as you were eminent opposition in previous years, but much more so now you have abandoned the famous renegotiation process for the budget surpluses, which I would remind you again that in 2014 you left the primary surplus with a prediction - of course impossible under the procedure and the conditions of the crisis - growth of 4%. As for the development path of the economy now - which you are rightly observing and confessing - I would remind you that it is the tenth quarter of growth and progress. So if you actually landed, say it all, not unilaterally. Because you have lied to us about ERT or licensing, here I owe an answer to the dear Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, because you have made a suspicion of my position. Because, as you know, I come from the space of the unified PASOK of the time, I said quite historically accurate that, that is, the government of the late Constantine Mitsotakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u240	That's not why I lied to you. For Mr. Chaakatos, I have sprayed you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u241	No, you said about me, too. You said about the licence. You left a cliff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u242	There are overall responsibilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u243	I would therefore like to remind you that the government of the late Constantine Mitsotakis has left two things, then an irresponsible landscape with regard to broadcasting licenses, which he himself was finally forced to introduce the term "complexity" when he saw the consequences, as well as OTE, the public then OTE...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u244	The rest of the 11 years, what did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u245	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u246	Don't interrupt. Mr. Buquarre, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u247	Mr Colleague, I have respected you, despite the fact that you have made a personal headline, and I am replying to you in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u248	Not a personal cliff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u249	I say, therefore, that it was a pathogen of our political system, which was unable for three decades to resolve the question of the regulation of television licences. Instead of criticising, let us admit that with whatever problems the SYRIZA government has for the first time been able to establish a regime of permits and operating this landscape by regulation, which has already brought the government and the Greek State EUR 150 million, and is still going on. So let us have some bravery in our review. In conclusion, Mr President, and without wanting to abuse, we are asking the Government to exercise the right and the duty of supervision, not to hide behind the independence of the Competition Committee. We are asking the Bank of Greece to exercise its own supervision of 37 billion, because for all the things that are rumoured and said about 9 billion, or I don't know what else they will go to the banks, you are responsible and responsible for putting a framework and informing the House about all these issues. We submitted a proposal to you. You must answer that, too. In any case, Mr President, we want to say that we have the democratic obligation to control the government and to monitor all procedures which can have negative results either for democracy, for the information of the Greek people or much more for the sacrifices of the Greek people, as reflected in the 37 billion, which I repeat is the guarantee of sovereignty and autonomy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u250	You have the right to tritology. Anybody want from the Ministers?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u251	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u252	Here, Mr. Papathanasis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u253	Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos, I think we should redefined what a free market means, an internal market. I think that at this stage of your speech, while there was a - in a way - turn from the previous phase, we could not end up, because there is an ideological difference between us. You interpret the clientele of interconnected relationships and then you say that the free market, the internal market and the Competition Committee must be controlled. I do not understand how these two are identified, namely how the free market, the internal market and the Competition Committee is identified, in the way that you have analysed in your debate freedom. I therefore believe that free market and competition means that the State does not intervene in institutions. The institutions are independent and exercise the rights conferred on them by the law, and this is why independent authorities are called independent authorities, otherwise they would not be called independent authorities, but they would be "address" of a ministry. I also want to tell you that we have to agree on something. What's more free and cleaner? A Competition Committee held with non-political parties or a Competition Committee in which the Chair was in the office of the former Prime Minister? I'd like you to answer that, because that's the alarming difference.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u254	Like Mr. Mylonakis? Don't you know Mr. Mylonakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u255	So to conclude, I would like to tell you again our opinion. For us, the free market means that it is controlled by the principles of the free market, and that is what the European Union, as you said. Competition means that we operate in a free market and the Competition Committee means an independent authority to give the definitions. Mr Janakopoulos, the Competition Committee means an independent competition committee without interference by parties, colonised and outside the influence of any government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Minister. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Petsas. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u257	Very briefly, Mr President, I will give an answer that I forgot about to Mr Tsipras and Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos. Mr. Tsipras spoke of 40 billion euros cost, while we have given other estimates, others have given other estimates of how much SYRIZA and ANEL governance cost at least in the first quarter. Don't get confused! We have been talking here about the EUR 40 billion that the banking recapitalisation has cost. It's very specific. Twenty-five billion euros to the Greek State, i.e. the Greek taxpayers via the CFSF, which has been dismantled and the value of EUR 15 billion for Greek small shareholders. As regards what Ms Xinoyannakopoulou said, the problem is that the previous three years, the period 2016, 2017 and 2018, was a terrible opportunity for Greece to follow the paces of other economies, because there was an explosion of tourism, declining oil prices and great growth in all countries and the Eurozone and the global economy. We missed this opportunity. Now the new government is being called upon to achieve a growth rate of 4% over the medium term, as you said, in the next five years, in a much more unfavourable environment and we will do so by restoring confidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on Question No 1/24-9-2019 on the acquisition of FORTHNET by Alter EGO and the concentration of media control is hereby concluded. The Minutes of Wednesday 31 July 2019 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u259	The minutes of Wednesday 31 July 2019 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-09-30-S1-commons.u260	With the consent of the House at 21.57 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 1 October 2019 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
