ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's approval of 6-12-2019, the minutes of the Foreign Session of Friday, 6 December 2019 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: "Forum reform with a development dimension for Greece of tomorrow".]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In his letter, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the topical questions that will be discussed today are number 269/29-11-2019, 282-12-2019, 807/20-9-2019, which will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Sophia Zacharakis, and by number 1509/24-10-2019, which will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Digalakis. We begin with the first, with the number 269/29-11-2019 timely question of the first cycle of the Member of the Larissa Movement Mr.Evangelias Lykoulis to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "Paya but unjustly the demands of those who attend musical schools." Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Undersecretary, we are bringing an issue that I believe is not at all unknown to you, because it has nothing to do with the Larissa Music School. From there, however, I bring you the theme from the last constant mobilizations of the children, which filled the streets of Larissa with music, but this music was not to rejoice, it was to enable us. It was the music of their protest. Kids are protesting. And you know, I've been presenting a personal poem to you, because about ten years ago, my children started studying at the Larissa Music School and since then, as if it didn't last a day, like it didn't change anything at all. That's the same thing we were talking about, that's what we're talking about. In other words, the music schools were founded in 1988. You know very well that with ministerial decisions that followed in 1997, although it was recognised to the graduates of the musical schools equal to and correspondence with the titles of their qualifications - and the children are aware that from first high school to third high school they are trained at the highest level musical knowledge - yet these provisions have never actually been activated and no one has ever come out of the music schools having an elementary degree that they deserved, anyway, after these special knowledge they acquired. Apart from not energising these ministerial decisions, we do not have common school manuals for theoretical musical lessons and free distribution, so parents buy these special books for school. Of course, musical games have been abolished, similar to sports matches which could be mobilized and children could have access to university schools at least a small percentage, as well as the lack of teachers in instrumental and musical skills. You know we've reached Christmas in eloquent proportions, and we've got too many gaps all over the country. So, for all these kids, they hit drums. It's not a war drum. It is a peaceful protest with music that children who have not been justified after so many years of higher education. So all of them are waiting to hear you today very anxiously.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u3	Mrs Zacharakis, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u4	Indeed, the drums or any instrument used by the children in this protest they apparently made and would reach the doors, windows and ears of those who currently have the political leadership in the Ministry of Education. It could not be otherwise, anyway, because it is certainly not new requests that have been made. Indeed, from the very beginning we went to the Ministry of Education, from our first meetings and requests, it was for us to know about these schools as well. They work with many inactive provisions from the past. Speaking one day with the teachers of musical schools primarily analysed what was not done from what was done. So that leaves room for it. Within the first few months, issues such as the music games, which I would be willing to look into in the next year, could not be treated. I'm paralyzed by all the parties in this part. It has specific provisions that we should see anyway from the implementation. There is also the question of the certification of organs and of a possible certification so that they come out of high school and have a certified knowledge. I am going to talk about what I have before me because I do not want to see any of it, especially the benches, and with respect to Parliament, say things that I do not have a timetable for action. But I'll tell you about the evidence I have. How did we prove in practice that we are interested in schools? I do not want to throw out situations of speaking in December about locations, which means that there is a great deal of room for improvement for next year. I call it in advance. On the other hand, I tell you that last year's total recruitment was four hundred seventy-two to thirty-seven revocations. Please, if you'd like the evidence to be checked. But it's one of the official agency's data. We this year have made eight hundred three intakes in music schools. Double last year. I would like to inform the House today that next week, over the sixty-three thousand five-and-a-half hours will be allocated to recruiting working hours of musical skills. Almost two thousand six hundred sixty-five hours per week. These are recruitments of well-paid teachers and experienced private musicians for music schools. I want to be very honest. I am sure, as you said before, that music schools from Larissa and various regions are waiting for our answers. These are things that we want to cure in terms of time. You know that special procedures are followed for the recruitment of substitutes especially in the piece of experts for musical schools. The Artistic Music Committee you know that it's in the IPE now, with its reconstructing because there was a resignation of the previous one. One of its priorities will be to look at issues of study, issues of music manuals, as well as issues in the organisational part in accelerating the recruitment of assistants. These guidelines have also been given to the new leadership of the EPP. That's all for the first piece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u5	Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Undersecretary, I understand what you're telling us. Of course, we did not expect you to come today and with your magic wand to say that you solved all the problems. We are not here, however, to make opposition. We have come to help the government and each government elect the system in which it is suffering. For example, you will get another sixty - three and a half thousand, but if you do the same time next year, you will not heal the problem. And tell you why. Because I sat down for hours to explain to me how it is possible every year that we do not have a Christmas payroll. Sit down, too. I think if you sit down with the managers, they'll tell you, Madam Secretary. So, what do people do? They collect the hours and send them to the Ministry, they state at the same time the professors of the Ministry, but these two things never meet. In other words, the hours do not meet, the debate with the offer so that we can get to Christmas and have not met the two sizes. That's why you can't make up for them. At the moment we have unemployed musicians too many - just to say it - and we cannot find musicians for traditional instruments, for example, at the School of Music in Larissa. So you have to elect the system, meet the two sizes between each other, supply and demand, in order to solve the problem. It doesn't say anything about Christmas. The sixty-three and a half thousand hours you'll make available. Yeah, you don't. Yeah, I understand what you're trying to tell me. But you won't solve the problem. So we first want to point this out in order to help in this direction. And the second thing I want to say is that making a ministerial decision, Minister, is not a matter, you can activate it. You know better than me how ministerial decisions are being activated. You can activate this decision and reintroduce the possibility with specific examinations, which are redefined in the legislation, children are certified. In addition, musical games are something children themselves are asking for. Do you know why? Because the music schools we're talking about right now are special schools, they're schools with a different view of things, they're schools that touch other areas of education, they're another new, parallel world that we want to open for all the children of Greece and the earth. They are children, young and older, high school and high school, ambassadors from our country abroad and you know that, they organize concerts with the homosexuals, great performances, traditionally go from Greece to other countries, create huge holidays. They are, therefore, these children who are very careful. When the Ministry itself disappoints these children and their own drums, their own music, their inner music only exterior to protest, it is a blow to the tenderness of their age but also to the power of their souls, which I think we need very much for the radiation of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. Mrs Zacharakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u8	Mrs Liikanouli, you speak from the heart and I could not answer from the logic that by following the work of the schools and even the performances, all that we have enjoyed here in the House, having welcomed the children of the Teenager Parliament, I would say that it was a first sample of an extremely inspired and creative presence of children. Yes, it goes without saying that these children should not be disappointed, such as no child who chooses the public education we support. That is why we are here so that the corrective actions, this meeting of hours with the teachers, which must take place at the Ministry, will take place in time with the Ministry's preparations, so that we can earn time, people know sooner when they will go to the school hall, but, above all, children will receive this self-evident welfare from the state earlier. I repeat that because for a long time ministerial decisions have not been activated, I must see exactly why they have not been activated and what difficulties exist for implementation. That is why I repeat that what I am trying to say here will have a logic of documentation, but more than a timetable, because I know that they are following us on the basis of your own question and I do not want to create false expectations. When I have something specific, I will come back with some kind of announcement and publicity of these two things that you have raised today, that is, for the music struggles and the issue of certification. I am, however, very specific and agree that the times in general should definitely change, let alone in music schools, which would say that the children are waiting and waiting anxiously. I forgot to tell you that an important task that will be done in this respect is to collect as Ministry and the needs that exist for the musical instruments, which often, you know, go through the municipalities, but also for the building, which in many schools of what we are talking about is crucial. It is a work we do in terms of child safety in the school space and obviously involves music schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u9	I imagine, Minister, you won't blame the Larissa Music School all your weight and leave me at the Ilio Music School.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u10	Of course. Together.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u11	I shall read out three communications to this House here. First Communication: The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order, presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: "A facilitation of the exercise of the electoral right of voters outside Greece and an amendment to the electoral procedure". Announcement second: Ministers for Health, Economic, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, and State Secretary for Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on 6-12-2019: "Urgent arrangements for the competence of the Ministries of Health, Home Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs and other provisions". This draft law has been characterised by the Government as urgent and has been referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. Third statement: The Minister of Justice forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime Responsibility of Ministers, as in force on 9-12-2019: Criminal case law concerning the a) Citizen Protection Minister Michael Chrysochoidis, b) Minister of National Defence Nikolaos Panagiotopoulos and c) Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and criminal case law regarding former Ministers Aristides Balta and Nikolao Philis. We continue with our second question under number 282/12-2019 of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary I, Mr Angelikis Adamopoulou, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: ‘Rejection of candidates for an SAEP (procedures 1EA, 2EA and 3EA) for the filling of staff vacant posts in special proceedings due to the non-payment of an offence of EUR 3’. Mrs. Adamopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I should first of all like to say that this is an issue on which two colleagues from other parties have already tabled a similar topical question. Unfortunately, no solution has been given by the Ministry. To this end, I have also asked the following question: as we have very recently been informed, about two thousand candidates, for the accuracy of a thousand hundred and eighty-three, are deemed to be rejected by the notices of the AACC, as the President, the 1EA, 2EA and 3EA, to fill in vacancys of staff in special education. The candidates considered, not by their own pitfall or by their own fault, but by pure ambiguity and confusion in terms of the directives, that the extradition of the 3 euro offence as well as their application had been successfully completed and found that the results were rejected. These applicants, to stress, fulfil all formal and practical qualifications. Many of them have a service of at least ten to twelve years. They lodged their supporting documents in a timely manner. They have therefore electronically issued the necessary paradox, but they have not completed the payment due to confusion caused by the ambiguity and malfunction of the payment system. From the AIA e-paravolo website the candidates received a code of trespass, declaring a bank account. Subsequently, as the instructions said, the code in the application, which was submitted, was successfully registered in the AAC system and received a reply that their application had been successfully registered. They therefore reasonably considered that a fee had been entered by transferring it from their respective account. When the application was submitted, it was only necessary to indicate the number of the infringement issued and not to prove its payment, as usual. The system therefore, as I said before, informed of the successful submission of the application, provided a valid protocol number and did not notify the applicants of any pendingness that would render the application rejected or unacceptable. In this way, then, nearly two thousand candidates were misled, who found themselves rejected. So there is a risk that so many people will be excluded from permanent assignments and as substitutes for the next three years. The non-payment of the offender under no circumstances has been done by people who are undergraduate, postgraduate, who have such experience. What does the Ministry intend to do to restore this flagrant injustice and ensure that the candidates are included in the rating tables? How does the Ministry plan to intervene to remove the malfunctions of electronic systems and to ensure that procedures are fully clear and comprehensible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u13	The Minister has the floor, Mrs Zacharakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u14	Mrs Adamopoulou, there have indeed been time-consuming questions and even last week I answered a question of the same content again. What was the placement, which hasn't changed since last week? It was a process for which, as a Qualified Opposition, we had demonstrated the points that would be problematic and emerged anyway. We see that this process, which affects the lives of thousands, now also has implications. In any case, the independence of the AACC shall not cease. What we stressed and stressed by the Minister himself last Monday is that we started a nuclear dialogue with the AACC - I have to tell you - from the beginning of our presence at the Ministry. Why did we do that? In order to ensure that the procedures are speeded up, not at the expense of the quality of the final tables, but above all that we are all consistent with our obligation, particularly with our children but also with our teachers and with our special assistant and educational staff and scientific staff, which is anxiously awaiting the announcement of the final tables. These first months were months of continuous conciliation and talks with the ADP for this acceleration. These issues have arisen. Evidently the ASEP has become a socialist of this information. Because we, too, have to tell you that we accept the thousands of complaints made by the applicants. I repeat, however - and this is important - that the AACC is an independent authority. We must respect and respect the independence of this principle and decide how to deal with objections. I would like to give you some information on how it has already handled some of them. It is not one hundred and eighty-three that you mentioned in your question, but I say it to see how it has so far dealt with other cases. They applied for twenty - eight thousand ninety - seven teachers, special assistant and scientific staff. Of these, eighty - three, eighty - three applications, as you said, the problem of not showing the payment of this price. He agreed to rely on validly submitted applications that made the irregular even after the deadline for each notice had expired, provided that this had been within the legal period of two months. The AACC has even informed us that it has committed itself to addressing positive applications rejected because of a misrepresentation of the wrongdoing or requests for which, within the relevant two-month deadline, another level of misrepresentation of Taxisnet was paid. This was mentioned during and after the meeting with the ILO, which performed a special performance in the AACC. I repeat that I understand the anguish and - if you will - the disappointment of many people. But at the moment I have to quote the self-evident thing, which is the independence of the authority. And secondly, I would like to quote another argument - which the beginning said anyway - that this would be a long way off the whole process. Consider that at the moment we have already posted definitive tables in one of the notices. The final results of the third, the great proclamation the world expects. We're listening to society. Obviously, we understand what is happening, but as a ministry, we can reach what I have said. We know and respect the independence of the AACC and that is what I would like to close my prototype. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u15	Mrs Adamopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u16	The argument for independence of the AACC has been read because you have responded accordingly to previous colleagues. You know, I'm personally impressed by this argument. Indeed, the independence of these authorities is true. This does not mean, however, that, first of all, the government does not have to make a legislative intervention, just to say it simply. It can make a uniform legislative intervention in order to give a legislative solution to this issue, even now, even afterward. To this end, the candidates themselves have proposed a provision and I shall table it in the Minutes, which the government must take into account at the moment, not only in its moral dimension but also in law, because in any case legislative intervention is within the competence of the Ministry. In particular, the provision proposed by the candidates states: ‘Applications submitted in the framework of the 1EAA19, 2EA19 and 3EAA19 notices, without being accompanied by a legitimately issued misrepresentation of a public fund, shall be considered valid and shall be taken into account by the AACC for the adoption of the final results of those notices, provided that the candidates within one month of the publication of this publication issue and produce on an equal basis an unreasonable date of issue and repayment.’. The explanatory statement is below. I don't read it, you can read it after I testify it. To cause a delay in this whole process, when the problem is ultimately due to a clear ambiguity in the directives that the Council itself has given itself, that is what it has to say is in breach of other principles. It violates the principle of good administration. At the moment, on the one hand, the Ministry comes to throw the ball in the ADP, invoking independence. Here, allow me to quote this. Another government intervenes with the independent authorities, even by exchanging committee chairmen. At the moment, we are not asking for illegality, we are asking for legality. It can therefore take account of this provision proposed by teachers. You know, I receive too much e-mails too. We are talking about people who are at the moment in the hospital, who have been irreparable even to their health. Their lives are at stake. They're people who have children. It is not by an administrative error at the moment that the government responds in a way - like the AACC - that in any case violate other principles. Infringement of the legal feeling, the principle of good administration, the principle of proportionality. Since we want to speak clearly at the moment and not to see the issue in its moral dimension, we must say that the constitutional protection of the work of these people, who have no fault and responsibility for the fact that the Council has not given any clear instructions. And it's not the first time. I have the information - correct me, if I am mistaken - that in the summer the AACC accepted EUR 3 payments for another portion of candidates. At the moment we consider that it is obviously a question of lack of political will on the part of the government to see this issue, taking the appropriate legislative initiative. I will also submit to the Minutes a memorandum, which has been tabled by the workers, in which they describe in detail exactly what happened in the whole process. There was absolutely no confusion on their part. The confusion was created because they received a confirmatory e-mail for the successful submission of their application. In the Instructions for completing the application, as I said, the extradition of the offender was foreseen, but it was not foreseen that they had to produce the proof of payment. And here I have to tell you from my personal experience as a lawyer that even in the courts, when a lawyer asks for postponement and does not in time produce the incorrect deferral, the 'blue-blue', as we say, the court gives him a very short deadline within the day, in order to produce it retrospectively, accepting the request for deferral. Right now, so the administration can't do the elementary thing? We believe that this whole issue is being dealt with, a very sensitive social issue in the public interest, I would say, with one - let me say indifference, with an analgesia. Even the principle of equality is violated. So we call on the government to invite you, since you are here today, to commit that you will see this with much greater sensitivity. I will also present to the Minutes a conclusion from the meeting held by the Teaching Federation of Greece with the ASP where the candidates have suggested that the issue should be regulated so that the ASP can also be initiated on the basis of the new legal framework. If, in other words, this legislative intervention is done, you will be able to solve your hands even with the AACC. Of course, I will also produce a case-law of the Council of State, which says that there can be even late submission of supporting documents when the applicant has submitted good faith and time-consuming documents with some failures which are not due to him but solely to the institution which issued them, i.e., in this case the AACC. It is therefore only the responsibility of the AACC, the sole fault of the AACC. So it is up to both the administration and the government to see the issue evenly, to see it with a sense of law and, finally, to restore this injustice, which all these people suffer with consequences for their own lives and health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Adamopoulou, I can assure you that the privilege of social sensitivity does not belong to any parties separately, but all, balancedly, I think, and with the same intensity, we have exactly the same concern at the moment for the people who are undergoing this process. I mentioned what has happened so far. I also mention the answers which we receive from the competent authority, which - I repeat - remains independent. I don't know where you've noticed the government's interventions with independent authorities. This government is trying - and will continue to - to try - to respect and respect the independence of the authorities. I should like to tell you some details, because in fact I cannot tell you anything different from what I have told you so far: from research that has been carried out and to the AACC, specific instructions for completing the application have been given. This issue of the notice will be a good guide, Mr Adamopoulou. And that - I think - we can all agree, as far as the general procedure is concerned, on recruitment, on appointments - to be more precise - that has been announced by the government so that the next notice can be as precise as possible so that we do not have cases of people currently in difficulty. I repeat - and do not think it is just a transfer of responsibilities - what is crucial to us, that, in other words, all the objections that have been made to the SAAP will be assessed from there, obviously also with the information you give, obviously, and with the evidence that is going - I imagine - to this independent authority. And each case will assess it separately. I do not want to say anything more in this respect, because, as I said last Monday, there are too many people who are waiting for these answers and those positions, I would every time like to answer what I can do and have in my hands. So anything else, especially that is evading my competence at the moment, would also be irresponsible to mention it, especially from the Step of the House. I imagine, however, that all these elements that you have already given can also be promoted to the AACC in order to make their respective moves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u19	I imagine we're all interested. However, people should not pay for it because of ambiguity, etc. I think we are all going to make joint efforts in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce that the Standing Committees on Social Affairs and Public Administration, Public Order and Justice present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: 'Expressive arrangements for the competence of the Ministries of Health, Home Affairs, Labour, and Social Affairs and other provisions'. The first question under number 807/20-9-2019 will be debated now under the second cycle of the Athens Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Friend to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'Unpredictable access for children of refugees to education'. Mr. Philly, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. And in advance, I'd like to have your understanding. On 20 September we tabled a question on the education of applicants and did not receive a reply from the Ministry of Education. We have therefore tabled a timely question, despite what developments have, of course, been to force you to come to the House. For two and a half months you have ignored the House. It is the rule of the Ministry of Education to circumvent and ignore the House in other cases so that it does not surprise itself with unauthorised legislative initiatives, but on the subject of children of refugees there is something worse. It is tragic that the Ministry of Education failed to respond to the country's international obligation to provide education to the refugees. The numbers are pouring. Last year the SYRIZA government, at this time, managed to integrate itself into the special structures, the Refugee and Education Structures of Refugees - D.C. - and in the schools 12 thousand eight hundred sixty-seven students. This year there are tragic delays due to the administrative incapacity of the Ministry. But is it also due to political destiny, Madam Secretary? But let's start asking questions. Firstly, how many refugee students and students are currently studying in schools and structures throughout the country? Secondly, why have you abolished the PPPs, the structures on the islands? The ministerial decision to set up the PPPs came out late and only two weeks ago began to work. On the contrary, in 2018 on SYRIZA the ministerial decision on PPPs was made August 28th. And the unprecedented year is that there are no PPPs on the islands where thousands of refugees are conspired every day. For example, according to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, there are six hundred children of school age in Samos and no one goes to school. In Lesvos, in Kara Tepez, they go to breakfast school for forty - five children in a total of four hundred. And in Moria we have four thousand seven hundred and fifty-five children, of which a thousand two hundred are infants, who don't go to school. Third question: According to Law 4540/2018, Article 13(2), which incorporated a European directive, the integration of the applicants into the educational system must take place within three months of the date of completion of the identification of the minor. You do not keep this and you are destroying it. Why? Fourth question: The number of designated training coordinators for refugees is in line with the figures less than last year, despite the fact that the number of new refugee arrivals has spread. What do you have to answer that? Fifth question: Is it true that in Attica there are no PPP classes in secondary education? Sixth question: Is it also true that the PPPs not only work in all the islands, as I mentioned, but also in Grevenas? Why? Seventh question: there are serious problems in the movement of pupils who are resolved by the regions and the IMO. In February, it was said that the IM's assistance expired. What do you intend to do? Eighth question: The reception class and the PPPs are subordinated. When do you intend to take substitutes? Subsistence has the effect of making it difficult for students to learn, but also of creating problems within the school. The problem will grow as thousands of children in existing reception centres in the mainland are driven by the decongestion of the islands. Ninth question: Is it true that children attending schools in Athens are being taken away from school in mid-year on the grounds that they have to go to the islands together with their parents in order to get their applications for political asylum? What educational and humanitarian principle is based on this authoritarian behaviour, which results in children actually being deported? And the tenth question: The notorious story by removing AMKA from refugees and immigrants has made it difficult for children to be vaccinated. I know that the matter is overridden, because doctors are effectively honoring Hippocrates' oath and are rightly illegal. I stress it, they're rightly outlawing! Will this regime continue with AMCA? Do you know the number of children who have remained unvaccinated and that is why they can't go to school? I spoke earlier about the administrative incapacity of the Ministry. It is not the services that have been exemplary for all these years. The political leadership of the Ministry is responsible for not sending instructions and not communicating with the educational units, leaving the project to the heroicism of education coordinators and teachers. Mr President, I have last left an important political issue. The xenophobia rhetoric provided by the government and its MPs, the policy of closed centers, the rhetoric of Samaras and other poachers, tolerance to racism fuels reactions to local communities, which do not honor the tradition of hospitality and the memory of the refugee of the Greek people. These reactions are increasing and due to the absence of the Ministry of Education to intervene where problems arise, as parents fear that the education of their children will be imposed, influenced by various rumours which, as a poison, are poured into citizens' consciences. In governance SYRIZA we fought, persuading and bent negative stereotypes and reactions of some local communities to create a culture of solidarity. We will not let you devour her consciously or unconsciously with your indifference. Please answer the specific ten questions we have asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u21	Madam Minister, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u22	Mr Philly, please tell me a statement I made specifically, or the Minister who shows or promotes this kind of rhetoric, according to your first words. I would like you to find a statement - if you will in a second year - and tell me when the Minister or I have somehow promoted a rhetoric that puts children in opposition to societies or put children outside the educational programme. That's never happened. In fact, in the programming statements, we were very clear that the programme of training for refugees, with the changes which must probably be made, or with the new data we have with the flows, with the unaccompanied children, will be on our priorities, with possible malfunctions that we will have to deal with. But we have never retreated from this objective. And I will try with the answers I will give today, to convince you on this. If I don't convince you, I'm going to let this be assessed by the people who are already watching today. As you know, the Ministry implements the action "Integration of refugees up to 15 in the educational system". The budget is at EUR 17.998.204. We support TENs with educational staff, assistant teachers, special assistant staff and special educational staff. Already in the quarter of this school year, we have appointed hundreds of alternates for PPPs and reception classes, which are proportional for the same period twice as last year. We have, in fact, provided credit for the needs of the whole year and we are already planning recruitment for the next period in particular for the new reception classes. I would like to inform you that, last week, on Friday, December 6, there have been recruitments in a series of others that have been made and planned. I would like to give you a number that I think is indicative. In this quarter, a thousand hundred and forty people have been hired. As a whole last year - and it was the year of governance of the Ministry's previous political leadership - there were a thousand six hundred - in total I repeat - in exchange for the thousands of hundreds of forty who have already been hired in the first quarter. We have completed the supply and installation of at least thirty prefabricated pre-primary units within the hosting structures, while more are already installed and will be installed in the near future. So I say things to you, and I do not say just words to you. Already in the process of proclamation the supply of consumable school items required for the operation of the EDPs for the school year 2019-2020. The Ministerial Decision of August defined the School Units of Primary Education, for which they are members of educational staff, as well as the IP23 Psychologists. They're a hundred forty psychologists who've been hired in primary school. And already by my own decision on 1 October, the school units were set up for the school year 2019-2020, which operate the reception structures for the education of refugees. We are going to a critical issue, to which I would like to make a special reference. And this is about the movement of the refugee students. I would like to point out that travel money was not there because it had finished the European Union budget and there was no provision for moving refugees' children. We found, after particular efforts by the Ministry of National Defence, indisposed money, which through the IMO is available to contribute to the displacement of the refugees. The regions have already been very helpful in helping this part. They undertake to move refugees from hosting centres to school units. In particular, because I would like to give examples - and there are examples, if you wish, to the other regions - the Region of Thessaly has fully undertaken to move the students from its two host centres, namely Koutsocheros and Volos. The regions of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace and Central Macedonia also helped substantially by transferring pupils from different regions. As I told you, we contacted the IMO so that we could, with this synergy, help to extend cooperation on the cases of the regions and, in particular, on the areas where there is a failure to carry the pupils. And since October 24th, the IMO has undertaken to move the largest number of students to mainland Greece, as well as to unaccompanied minors. The move began gradually, with new areas being added to the IOM routes. At the moment - and I would like you to keep the data here - all student movements are taking place to the morning schools and to the education structures of refugees operating during the afternoon hours. The aim is for transport to pass entirely on to the regions. This is already done in consultation with the regions so that this transfer can actually pass. You know that a new law was passed in the Greek Parliament, No.4636/2019, which introduces a single and clear framework for regulating the protection of people who are subject to the refugee status or who are entitled to subsidiary protection. This law ensures the uninterrupted and equitable access of refugees to the educational system, which is also explicitly provided for as compulsory. Special facilities shall be provided for registration by incomplete supporting documents and provision shall also be made for the organisation and organisation of parallel training activities in the context of the informal training of hosting centres. You raised an issue about vaccination. That must be answered by the Ministry of Health. In any case, we are in agreement on the issue of vaccination at the Ministry of Health and on the question of the whole school population. In summary, for this year, we have ensured the operation of PPPs and host classes with a record number. We have resolved and continue to resolve a number of issues relating to infrastructure and their operation with all the problems we have received. We have resolved the issue of transport, which was literally 'air', and we are achieving a permanent, definitive solution to the problem through the regions. We have drawn up and voted for a new legislative framework on the issue that sets order, makes it compulsory for refugees to attend the education system, while facilitating their access to it and solving chronic problems. And all this, in the midst of a state of increasing flows and a dynamic situation of children leaving the islands, they go to mainland Greece and there is a dynamic flow as to the possibility of joining education structures. I'll stop here so I don't take time from Mr. Friend and come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u23	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, eighteen students and students and two educational attendants from the Second Tripolis School of Occupation. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, you should be aware that you are currently following the procedure of parliamentary scrutiny, which, through the questions and answers, is discussing a Member with a minister or Minister on a specific matter. It is not a procedure in plenary. Now we are at the end of the debate on 'Unfortunate access for children of refugees to education'. I'm telling you why you have refugees in Tripoli, so you know. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. I asked questions in particular and I did not receive a reply, which confirms my worst fears, unfortunately. The first question is: How many refugees are currently studying in schools and structures throughout the country? We need a number. You're legally required to know him. Now tell us how many. We, under the government of SYRIZA, had 12 thousand eight hundred sixty - seven disciples last year. Secondly, why did you remove the PPPs on the islands? Last year, they studied in the northern and southern Aegean in structures, in schools, in reception classes and in PPC, a thousand seventeen hundred and threeteen students and students. Where are these kids this year? Where are these kids when there are no schools and structures that children can go? And, indeed, we are talking about the islands that in recent months we have, as you know, a great influx of refugees and immigrants. And that's where you're pulling out the PPPs! I reported evidence from the UN. You didn't tell me anything. We only have four thousand, seven hundred and fifty five children who don't go to school in Moria! Do you understand what the number is?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u25	Very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u26	We have four thousand seven hundred fifty-five children who don't go to school. What are these kids doing? Of these, a thousand are infants. Secondly, there are a thousand six hundred school refugees in Samos. No one goes to school. There are forty - five children in Kara Tepee, Lesbos, in a total of four hundred who go to school. These are numbers and you have to answer. Why did you remove the PPPs on the islands? What for? A third question, which I have raised and received no answer, is about the number of training coordinators for refugees. There are complaints that you have made party choices. They have said that themselves, I do not want to point them out any further. But the number is smaller than last year. How do you have more substitutes and fewer training coordinators for refugees? In what way? That's absurd. How do you even have an undetermined number of children? That's unreasonable. You're not telling us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I've asked other questions. In Attica, why don't ICU classes work in secondary education? Do you know it or not? They're not working. Why aren't they working? Another question is this: In Grevenna, why are they not operating PPP? Another question, which matters, is this: Tell us, children are being taken away from school in Athens. Do you know that? They're grabbing the kids from school inside! The teachers call 'Where are you guys taking them?' and they are told "We are going along with their parents to get revenge on the islands for applying for political asylum". That's inhuman! It's actually the deportation of children from school, from their school environment. That's what's going on. Do you adopt it? Are you intervening to cancel? There are other questions that you did not answer, such as the issue with children who do not have AMKAs, neither their parents nor those. You'll answer, he says, through the Ministry. Fortunately doctors are effectively abolishing this inhuman law and making vaccinations! In conclusion - as I do not want to be wrong - I would like to say this: do not go against yourself all the time, because you may not have had funds in the summer, as you said, but many months have passed since then on the issue of children's movement. And the question is whether the regions have contributed. Of course they contributed. They recognized it. Is the IMO's assistance stopped in February? Do you know that? And what do you plan to do then about moving the children? Today we have early December. We're talking about February. It's the SYRIZA's fault again? Madam Secretary, I don't want to be unfair. I heard two speeches you made. At first you said that you have never made any racist statement. I recognize it. We're talking about you personally. Your government, your ministers, your MPs, haven't they? Does this not give public opinion a negative impression which undermines the work of the Ministry of Education for pupils who have to go to their schools, refugees? This is what you put on and not on your personal matter. It's not a personal question. You also said that the Ministry's programme - if I have listened well - concerns children up to 15 years of age. Why? Where are the children going to learn from the ages of sixteen, seventeen and eighteen, the 'daughters' of war, refugee, at which school? It is obvious that the government's decision with the law on the refugee question you have voted on is to separate the children from 15 years of age and over 15 years of age. Over 15 years of age, where are you sending them exactly? Let me get this straight. Where do these kids learn letters? How do these children join our society? It is a crucial question and, in my opinion, demonstrates the great democratic deficit that the government has in the exercise of its policy on immigrants, on refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u27	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u28	I didn't mean to tell you the truth, to turn this conversation into controversy, but you're forcing me, when the previous government brought us the image of Moria, it brought us the image of Idomen, which, in fact, gave a certain impression of the country around the world...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u29	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u30	All over the world, Mr Philly, why are you coming right now and talking about racist statements, which I really do not see in the public debate. I find, however, a reaction to the world that comes from the failure, from the criminal negligence - I would say - of the previous government to deal with the issue of refugee - immigration, and so many resistances have been created at the moment to the Greek people, which we are trying not only to bend, but to explain the issue, to deal with it effectively and ultimately to be consistent with our self-evident obligations as a European state and rule of law, in accordance with the conventions, which in any case govern the operation of child education in particular. So when we talk about the issue of dealing with the refugee - immigration, I think SYRIZA should be more careful when he has shown real works and days for four years and when he brought the country to the point where he was brought it, when he is truly accountable for the images of Moria, accountable for the icons of Idomen and for the image of these impoverished people, who the world welcomed them. I think we will agree that the world has welcomed the first flows of those people who sought a better future. I repeat that you will not find extremist voices in this government, but you will see people who will explain the problem, who will be dealing with it drastically, as we are currently dealing with the issue of unaccompanied children through the national coordination that we now have all the ministries on this issue. You requested numbers. Let me give you numbers. Last year you had 12 and a half thousand children in the whole. This year eight thousand children are studying and will grow as the units in which the children are going and studying are growing. This is about synergy and local society and regions, so that travel can be facilitated. I would like to reply to the next question in this way and to what has happened since February. The issue has already been resolved in most regions. So we will have a solution to this important pending matter, which was there. We found it, we faced it with the money that we found through the Ministry of National Defence, and I thank you first of all, the Ministry responsible at the moment for the enormous effort it is making. You told me about the kids up to 15 years old. I remind you it was a move that started by SYRIZA anyway. The integration of refugees up to 15 years of age into the educational system is something that started in 2016. It is not something that we started and we forgot about children over the age of 15. We can ask ourselves why children were probably not included and we can also discuss ways to help 16, 17, eighteen years of aid from the Greek state if they want to stay here, do something in vocational education or, anyway, seek the best future, in which they too hoped to come here, but within a framework that the law lays down, a law that was very clear, adopted by the government, which had other elements, such as the speeding up of asylum applications, such as closed pre-export centres, which I understand are currently creating reactions to SYRIZA, but on the other hand, form a good administration with all five axes and a management of the problem, which you have extinguished and truly brought Greece to the point of being accountable to the refugee - immigration. I conclude by saying that during the first five months of the first five months of the Ministry of Education's leadership, we really had to deal with many issues and wherever there might be malfunctions and even delays, I will tell you that moves are being made so that there is also a need for dialogue with local communities. You're telling me about the islands. Do you know when the kids started last year in Samos? February. The kids started going to school in February! Did the boys go to school from Moria? I leave these questions. If you want, we can meet again. We never refused to answer questions. Every Monday we're here, and we're answering. So let us come back, if you want, with up-to-date data, with answers on them, but also with our own account of what has always been, but in dialogue and consultation with the local community, so that these children do not experience the reactions as well, but at the same time everyone has a clear framework of operation, which is necessary. I believe that you agree with me to create relationships of cooperation with the local community and not relations of dissimilarity. That's all I had to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u31	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u32	You've lost five thousand kids. Before they were thirteen thousand children in school, you said that this year is eight thousand. Where are those five thousand kids?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u33	Please! There is nothing in this debate. I'm not talking. No one noticed I was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u34	You've lost five thousand kids since last year. That's what the State Secretary tells us. That's a terrible confession!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u35	Well, we move on to the second debate under number 1509/24-10-2019 on the question of the cycle of petitions and questions by MP I Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs about "Problems with the distribution of academic writings to students". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. You have the floor for two minutes, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u36	Yes, thank you. I said earlier, just repeat it, that with the confession of Mrs. Undersecretary, five thousand children were lost. Before he was thirteen thousand - last year - the kids in school and you said it was eight thousand this year. Where are those five thousand kids? This is the fate of the education of refugees! You did not answer everything else, of course. And we understand what's going on. But I now move on to the next question. On October 24, we had tabled a question about the distribution of students' university writings and unprecedented delays in the payment of publishing houses by the Ministry. One and a half months later, just last Thursday, Mr Dygalakis has obviously been able to answer us in the light of this evening's debate. But it is an answer, because it gives us legislation and avoids commitments. I am not exaggerating from opposition. They, the directly concerned, the Association of Publishers of Scientific Books, immediately disproved the allegations of Mr. Digalakis' ministerial response and scheduled a conference at midday at the Ministry of Education. We'll see what happened. According to the figures of the publishers who do not question the Ministry, only part of the writings of the winter semester of the academic year 2018-2019 have been paid and even invoiced in the spring of 2018-2019. This is a debt of about EUR 50 000 000. Of the three hundred publishing houses, the two hundred sixty are small personal family businesses. You realize the threat they face. According to complaints by publishers, the Ministry of Education violates the procedure and has repaid certain publishers who have subsequent protocol numbers for depositing their invoices. Here's the notorious state at last! More generally, the average repayment time of university books to publishers exceeds two years from the time of their production. Is the necessary audit of the publishing data so long delayed? The problem is not only about three hundred publishers, two hundred and twenty thousand students, who have to take the writings on time. I ask you, Minister: First, when will the debts for the writings of the winter and spring semester of the academic year 2018-2019 be repaid? Secondly, do you intend to abolish the provision according to which writings are entitled to any student who does not exceed the prescribed six months of study, plus four? Thirdly, will the positive arrangement for part-time students remain, or will these arrangements also arise in your announcements of allegedly worthy of and remission of students?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Secretary, Mr. Digalakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr. Philly, let me tell you that we will answer all the questions. The question you asked was answered. You have chosen, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to make it timely and I am here, as are all the previous topical questions that have been asked, to answer the question. And I would remind you that during the term of office of your successor, Mr Gavroglou, on SYRIZA, the percentage of unanswered questions was 72%. I mention this because among the MPs who ask you is Mrs Jufi who went to the Ministry of Education with Mr. Gavroglou. But let's go to your questions, Mr. Friend. Your first question is whether we intend to proceed with the payment of the university writings of the previous academic year. It is good to see how we have reached this point. The annual cost of university writings is about 59 to 60m euros. In the financial year 2015 expenditure of EUR 51 million was repaid, i.e. less than EUR 9 million from the total cost. In 2016 - your term of office - expenditure of 56m euros has been repaid. It was relatively good, i.e. less than EUR 4 million. In the financial year 2017 - that is, your successor, Mr Gavroglou - expenditure of EUR 33 million, that is, approximately EUR 27 million below annual expenditure, has been reimbursed. In 2018, EUR 58 million was repaid. If you sum up all of this, that is, what accumulated between 2015 and 2018, they are due expenditure, outstanding invoices of EUR 40 million, which are transferred year by year. Should we go to the most serious? There are correspondence from the Ministry of Education and the General Accounting Office of the State in March and April 2018 - which I present in the Minutes - which states that according to data available to the Services, the debts of the Ministry of Education and the supervised bodies over 44 billion euros are outside the commitment register. What does that mean? No debts of 44m euros were entered in March - April 2018, the largest of which relate to university writings. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Vassilis Digalakis, presents the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, what do we got here right now? The debts of writing which have accumulated during your term of office, and in particular Mr Gavroglou's term of office for which you are asking us and which you have not only accumulated, but you have also hidden them. You come and ask us whether we will pay them off by carrying out a budget that you have voted on. Let's go to the other questions. At this point I would say that as regards the registration of the writings, the configuration of the catalogue, the registration of the distribution points, the costing of the writings - I am talking about the current academic semester - but also the control of the cost, all this has been carried out and handled properly. The students will take their writings properly, because that's what's important. Finally, in your third question, which is essentially about legislation, yes, students who are in the normal course of study - 'n' plus two years - will normally receive their writings, part-time students - for whom two 'n' are provided - and they will normally take their writings, as will students who study for a second degree, and they will always take their writings, of course if they have not received writings in a previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u39	Me too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Philly, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u40	Thank you. The question is one and it has not been answered. When will debts be repaid to issuers from the winter and spring of 2018-2019? The story of the government opposing the opposition, and in this way to think that it governs it has limits. I repeat: when will you pay the money you owe the publishers? The question is not only about publishers - which I repeat many of them, the large majority are small and are slaughtered by this fiscal option you have made not to pay them - also concerns students. Because at the end - be careful - we will also have delays in the distribution of the documents. Do not take an oath on the gospel if the tactics you said continue. I stress you didn't tell me when they were paid. That was the main question. You said what Mr. Gabroglou didn't do. Okay, that's not true, but I'm not gonna put it in the conversation today. You tell us what to do. When are you gonna pay? That's what people want. They don't ask Gabroglou and Friend to pay them. You're the government. What are you gonna do? Tell us. Have you exhausted all the budget expenditure on university writings in the current budget? Has he exhausted them? Are you thinking of finding any more money? What are you gonna do? Tell us. Secondly, you have not responded to the complaint by publishers that virtually downward numbers of protocols are entering the front and the ‘lateral’ publishers are paid, not those for you who are not sufficiently ‘local’. This is a complaint from publishers. You don't know her? Today when they met you, didn't they tell you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u42	I'll start with the last one. It is something that is not included in your question. There's nothing like that in my understanding. If you want, ask a question. It will be investigated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u43	The publishers told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u44	Let me tell you here that the tariffs according to the services are paid according to the chronological order in which they come to the services of the Ministry of Education. I will return to the original question about when they will be repaid. As a government, the direction is to pay off the unpaid obligations, which in this case, as I have said in my prototype, have been accumulated by your own governance and by Mr Gavroglou at the Ministry of Education. You've been in the government for four and a half years. You know, Mr. Philly, why does the problem of late payments arise in university writings? I don't know if you know. Well, surely you didn't do anything to deal with it. So the problem with university writings, as well as with the substance of the subject, is that it is a process which, in the way it is done, concerns thousands of invoices. Every publishing house, on every point of sale, on the participating universities, leads us to a huge bureaucratic burden to handle this process, which creates the dues. Four and a half years of government have done nothing to solve this issue, and we are being transferred to us a debt, which corresponds to the annual cost of university writings. In other words, we are called upon to pay for two of the bills when you have written half of them in the budget. We will deal with the problem and we will see it next year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Ladies and gentlemen, the second question under number 286/3-12-2019 in the first cycle of the F Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Problems at the premises of the National Sport Centre (ESC) Larissa" will not be discussed with the Minister of Culture and Sports. Finally, the first question under number 288/3-12-2019 of the Second Cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Problems faced by classical sport in Thessaloniki and especially the National Kathantzoglio Stadium" will also not be discussed by the Minister with the MP. No more sport for today! Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-09-S1-commons.u46	With the consent of the House at the time of 19: 15 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 10 December 2019 at 10:00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, according to the agenda to be distributed.
