ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Solidarity: “Confidence of debts to the social security institutions, the Tax Administration and the O.T.A. (a) Degree, pension arrangements and other insurance and pension provisions, strengthening of the protection of workers and other provisions.’ Now here's what I'm going to tell you. The bill is urgent. You all know that. Instead of yesterday you were all here when you were making the names of colleagues from each other and there, you weren't. It would be reasonable that colleagues have been deleted. We didn't erase them. Today the parties' secretaries were informed who the first fifteen were. Not most of the first fifteen are here. That's why the first five is not in line. Don't tell me why it's not. Just so that I don't waste time, whoever you're here and some of you are here, you're going to enter the first five minutes, which is the following: Mr. Stagiras, Mr. Thrafaniotis, Mr. Sevastakis, Mrs. Vuldesi and Mr. Vettas. This five-and-a-half-three are therefore registered, but I do so in order not to waste any time. Finally, I will give Mr Blonde the floor to defend his amendment to abstain. Mrs. Fotou and Mr. Petropoulos came. We also inform you that, in consultation with the President of Parliament, the bill due to the amendments tabled will go tomorrow morning until noon. This means that I and the other Members of the House will show a tolerance in five minutes for one and a half minutes, but up to that, because they are ninety-three. Twenty-five yesterday is not real, as I told you. It's fictitious because they were missing about nine colleagues. So, so that you can all talk until tomorrow at noon we can be as disciplined as we can. So we're starting with Mr. Stavura. Then the Members will speak. Thraniotis, Sevastakis, Vettas. Then I will give Mr Xanthos the floor, and I hope that my colleagues will be here and that we can get into a regularity of the list. If anyone is missing from a party and there is another party from the same party here, he will take his place. Here you go, Mr. Stavura. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is celebrating. He's celebrating the unnecessary excesses. But is he really entitled to celebrate? Indeed, if these were to come from higher economic growth. But the government has proven itself, systematically fails to achieve development goals. They would be entitled to celebrate if they came from a shrinking of tax evasion. But tax evasion, particularly VAT, is growing. So what is the result of the excesses? It is because of overtaxation, confiscation and internal postage of payments by not issuing new pensions and the collapse of the public investment programme, resulting in low-flight economy declining, the collapse of the middle-class, the growth of private debt. Since the beginning of 2015, citizens' debts to tax and insurance funds have been set off until now by 65%, now exceeding EUR 140 billion. This is the painful reality. And today comes the government of taxes, confiscations and auctions, electorally too late, copying fragmentary proposals from the Officers of Anti-Population to correct a few of its many mistakes. After taking ten of all citizens’ wallets, one of them returns today. It moves forward in arrangements without overall addressing the problem of private debt, setting strict income criteria even for very small private debts, providing very few instalments for businesses, not rewarding the consistent taxpayers. It goes on to reintroduce VAT to focus and food at the level that was at the beginning of 2015, excluding a range of products. It goes on to grant a pension to pensioners when it has cut the ESS to equal and permanently, or has increased the health contributions to basic and supplementary pensions permanently. However, it refuses to proceed directly with the abolition of tax reductions as proposed by the New Democracy. It is recalled that the current government alone has already reduced the tax on duty once and voted again on its own second reduction in 2017. Reductions in the tax rate that they have and will have a huge cost to the available income of citizens, employees and pensioners, especially the weakest layers of society, overcoming any benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens now know very well that Mr Tsipras is selling lots of cherries, but he has a small basket. And they're not convinced by the big words. They seek honesty, seriousness, responsibility, moderation. They seek a comprehensive, coherent and realistic economic plan. Its project will be implemented and implemented by the New Democracy. Here too there are the major ideological and political differences with SYRIZA. We, guaranteeing individual prosperity and collective prosperity, will increase the country's wealth, increase the pie. SYRIZA has been proven for four years and has been unable to achieve this. We, strengthening investment and extroversion, will improve the composition of the country's wealth. SYRIZA has proved to be unable to achieve the necessary productive restructuring of the economy. The gross fixed capital formation, i.e. investments, shrinks. Large investments are coming to an end. Significant privatizations are going down. There is now a negative rate of net investment. We, with the support of those who are unable to monitor the pace of a world that is changing rapidly, will achieve a socially fairer distribution of the greater wealth produced. SYRIZA proves to distribute the poverty and misery he created. We will reduce household and business tax more decisively. SYRIZA has proved itself in choice with him has imposed twenty-nine new taxes. We will implement structural changes that enhance productivity of the economy. SYRIZA has proved to be allergy to them, thus systematically undermining the country's classification in international competitiveness indicators. We will strengthen liquidity in the real economy, by paying off public debts, by carrying out the public investment programme, by removing the existing capital restrictions, by making use of the available European financial instruments, by strengthening credit expansion through the smooth operation of the banking system. SYRIZA proved to be drying the real economy. We will create a more flexible, functional and productive state. A state that will ensure maximum economic efficiency and socially fairer distribution of wealth, without redundancies in the public and without enlargement, by hiring where there are genuine needs on merit. SYRIZA has proved to be creating a larger, customer-efficient and inefficient state. We will invest in new endogenous sources of development, improving the quality and efficiency of education, research and innovation, providing high-quality knowledge in connection with the labour market, broadening choices for all citizens. SYRIZA is proven by short-sighted logic and microparticular feasibility. We will build an open society as a pillar of economic stability, with the consolidation of security and law. SYRIZA has proved to reduce the quality of democracy, undermines the rule of law, threatens the separation of powers. We work and we will work through the largest European family, based on the principles of the social market economy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u3	You're closing, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u4	In a minute, Mr. President. ... to strengthen Greece's role in a better, but Europe, Europe, Europe of sustainable development, prosperity, security, creative solidarity, respect for national and patriotic sensitivities. SYRIZA is still looking for a contractor. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down: the country has quite a comparative advantage. In particular, it has well-trained and well-trained human capital, ready to provide an effort to rebuild the economy. But these efforts will only be successful if we apply...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Stavura, I will leave no more.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u6	... those policies that will highlight them, facilitate them and confirm them. The day is approaching to close a four - year cycle of irresponsibility, idealization and exodus. And citizens will open up a new cycle of responsibility, credibility, modesty, modesty and efficiency. And this cycle will go with the New Democracy. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u7	What do you thank me for? We have said a relative tolerance to everyone. Not the first five, ten to forget that another sixty are coming. Mr. Thraniotus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am tempted to ask Mr Stakoura: what you promise you will do now, why have you not done it in previous years so that the country does not go bankrupt, Mr Staikora? Didn't you rule? You ruled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u9	But we had it in 2014. You don't understand what he said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Besyropoulou, he didn't ask you first. Ask Mr. Stakoura, who sits behind you. Please, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, the fifth Municipal School in Agios Nikolaos Crete has been toured in this Chamber some time ago. So I asked the children - they were sitting back there right now - if they have attended Parliament's meetings, if they have an opinion on the debates between Members and how they generally judge Parliament's level. Can you imagine the answer? Needless to say, their overwhelming majority expressed negative comments. And if I mention this, it is because, apart from older people attending Parliament meetings, they are also watching children. We should also be much more careful about this, because the House should be an example of imitation rather than avoidance. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on the regulation of debts, which has been set up in insurance funds, public funds, natural persons and agencies. The proposed draft law allows millions of citizens to be regulated with arrears. Debts accumulated and the majority of debtors were unable to fulfil their obligations because of the violent adaptation and restrictive policies imposed on our country during the memoranda in particular. What do we mean, however, 'violent adaptation' and what is due? How and why have these debts been created? If we go back to the strong Greece, Greece of the Olympic Games, and even more back, we will realize that this whole period had created a virtual reality. We lived a myth. A legend that turned into a nightmare. And the responsibility lies fully with the parties that have ruled the country over the past few years. Because I believe that there is not a single citizen in this country who disputes that your policies have been bankrupt. But let's see how and why this whole picture of strong Greece collapsed like a paper tower, dragging the vast majority of the population into the ruins, leading it to poverty. We all remember the period of furnished prosperity, the bombardment of television: "Take a loan too to put your own tile over your head. Don't be in the rent. Take a loan to go on a vacation. Get a loan to go and have a holiday. Take a loan to play on the Stock Exchange." Especially with the last one, that's where they lost property. It was the season of the air. So, the one who wanted his own tiles saw it as an opportunity. He's got his brains in his head. He measured it, measured it again, encouraged it by our great friend. "So, it can't, it'll be right, he thought." With a salary of 1,500 euros or 2,000 euros in the public or private sector, he would give 500 euros for the loan and he would have the rest of it in order to regulate his life. "I'll have the rest and I'll have my own tile over my head. Sounds like a good thing to me," he thought. But he never wondered where this money was spread by the banks. From which production process were derived. What productive investments have been made over the past few years. They were issues that didn't concern people. They saw the opportunities before them without seeing the flashlight. How do they know about economic analysis and forecasts? How would they know why the markets at high interest rates were lending us 6.5% in 2006 at the time of strong Greece? Neither the Bank of Greece's report nor that the situation was manageable - it was confidential - nor the warnings of Mr.Surla about corruption in Greece in the midst of a crisis nor the concerns of Mr. Cremastinos about the launching of health expenditure from 2.5 billion in 2000 to 9 billion in 2010, wondering where they took this money. It was the time of 'whoever got ahead of it'. Now we know. And if we didn't find out everything, at least we suspect. The tile over our head, instead of protecting us, came to us head by head. First those who loaned us, tell us, “Get us what you owe us. But we don't have them. We will find them, but on our own terms." What about the result? This is the reduction of wages and pensions by 40% with twelve horizontal cuts. This is the loss of national income by 25%. Here's the bond cut for the insurance funds. The theory of shock. Violent adjustment. Who paid and paid all this? Obviously not those responsible for bankruptcy. They made sure to get them. They've paid the victims you've created. First of all, those who lost their job and stayed out of work. At 27.8%, unemployment in 2014 from 7.7% in 2008. Those who saw their programming blow into the air and began to think about how they could handle it. Small and large enterprises that couldn't handle. The employees and the pensioners. Where they took a payroll satisfyingly, they saw their pay cuts dramatically by 40%. They had to cover loans, insurance contributions, taxes, light, water, telephone. And if they happened to have kids studying, they wouldn't get off with anything. They therefore began to prioritise their needs, not to pay the insurance contributions, their tax obligations, the current, the loan, the credit card, because otherwise they had been scheduled. If they didn't happen to get sick, they didn't have care. Uninsured at 2.5 million. That's the violent adaptation. That was the picture you handed us over. Ladies and gentlemen, with the draft law that we are discussing and which we are discussing, the conditions are created to breathe millions of Greeks. It is estimated that more than three million will regulate their debts, while a large number with the arrangements will be retired and withheld by his debt. There is a redefinition of the basic debt and 85% of the surcharges, while 100% of the premiums are cancelled for debts of up to EUR 6,000. With the measures announced by the government, such as the 13th pension on a permanent basis, a reduction in VAT on the focus, a reduction in VAT on electricity from 13% to 6%, a reduction in the cost of living for citizens, while a reduction in the tax rate on cooperatives to 10% and a 10% reduction in taxable income on cooperative farmers strengthens the cooperative movement. Also, four and a half thousand permanent special education courses will be recruited in 2019 and another nine and a half thousand. I would like to point out, in conclusion, that there are categories of citizens who have seen their way down in their lives and have not been able to fulfil their obligations. They're the ones to support. There are also those who, in the course of the crisis, have often responded to their obligations. They're the ones to reward. Finally, there are those who are professionally mispaid. They're the ones to get hit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Comrade, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u13	I'm closing, Mr. President. With the concrete measures and arrangements of the bill, the country leaves the memorials behind, enters normality and slow, but with steady steps and, above all, with respect for the management of the Greek people's money, enters a development orbit. Be sure that the Greek people will appreciate it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House twenty-four students and students and two teachers attending from the 11th Haidari Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] As we said, Sevastakis, Vettas, from yesterday the two colleagues, Nyfoudis and Xydakis came. Here I stop with the list and give the floor to Mr Blonde to defend his amendment and we continue with a very regularity on the list. Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much. The welfare state, i.e. the organised and balanced spread of social good, health, education, etc., is considered accurate, is considered to be a burden on development. The thought schools organized around this perception consider that there is a developmentist, there is a capitalism that produces wealth. This raises the economic level of the entire people and therefore the people can buy education services, health services, public space, travel, etc. These schools of thought are considered to be sacking them around the general term 'neo-liberalism'. In the Greek version of this arrest is mythological, it is a construction, even if it is made by an elephant of the urban area, such as Mr. Stagiras, a measured man. It is a mythological construction, because there has not been much for many years, too many decades, productive sprinkler and therefore there is no collectively produced wealth. There are ways to produce, create growth rates, but they are not related to the country's productive identity, i.e. the country's real wealth. The collapse of the welfare state was a consequence of the collapse of public wealth, resulting from bankruptcy. I think that today we can look differently, with different degrees of optimism, our fundamental problem. There's another concept, different from this thought school that says that if you have money, you buy education or health. It says the other idea that profitable is not only business success, but it is the recovery of social cohesion, that social cohesion, being able to save the perished, is a form of collective profitability, a different type of profitability, not directly economic, but indirectly economic. Social cohesion is a prerequisite for developmental plans and productive reorientation. The one who makes more can mitigate his gain, his surplus, helping the weak, the out of the system. That's what that concept says. There's a counterfactual that this is injurious, that it creates brakes. I think that international experience, international experience, literature tells us that not throwing a third of society or half of society out of the system is not an answer. Keeping some resources of a basic urban state, care and welfare, active, that in time this creates greater growth momentum and provides a way out, at least ideological and emotional outlet. The measures, whether or not in a continuous way, as Mrs Lyberraki has always pointed out, in her speech, 'By winning the amnesia', yes, we are entitled, of course, to win or claim a new amnesia, but not amnesia, not to forget our fundamental productive flaw, what has plunged us into a false vulnerability and, in the end, bankruptcy. So I say that the measures belong to the other direction, the direction of healing, the recovery of public space. It is a public transport concept of being able to survive and survive and rejoice with'services' - within introductory terms, bad term - education, health and public space. So this is the real re-evaluation of the programme. For too many years, for four years, there has been criticism that you are not the owner of the program. On the New Democracy side, the criticism of SYRIZA was that "you cannot implement the recovery program of economic normality, because you are not its owners, you do not believe it ideologically". The real re-evaluation of the programme is therefore the attempt of the measures which, in any case, are in a positive direction and can only accept that they are in a positive direction. In other words, the permanentisation of the 13th pension - of course they have lost a large part of their resources, as the country has lost them - cannot be lost by the country and cannot be injured - but this means a turn. Or widow's pensions, that is to say, defence measures, which contribute to what we all want. It will not be difficult for the President to interrupt, because I am closing my speech before the seven-minute indulgence passes, but I think we are winning it collectively. I would like the opposition to propose concrete countermeasures rather than trying to hide the fact that it is obviously in a right direction, positive direction, a helpful direction to the small, defensive economy, what is being proposed by the government. I would like such an opposition and such an administration of the country. After all, the bet of recovery of the productive identity and the question of the recovery of self-esteem is in front of us. A large part of bankruptcy is ideological, it is emotional, and we must also give answers to this side as a political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u16	Mrs Buddhism has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, our civilization has been plunged into a tyrant. They dominate lying, propaganda, distortion of reality, violence, lawlessness, secret relations with businessmen, control of information, state capitalism, transaction within and outside borders, devastated and prodigal life. A mixture of pernivism and stalinism, with a new ruling class that despises the public feeling, underestimates the people's intelligence and dignity, while allegedly giving struggles for the poor of a new ambitious pluralism. We learned yesterday that Mr Tsipras has no problem with the fats, and he thinks that rot and indifference are part of his private life. His models, of course, are the unfamiliar memory of Enver Hoxha and Madour. Hodja, lived in palaces, but could not - as they said to the people - enjoy them, because he stayed awake all night to think of the people and their problems. Madour, sees his people starving, that there are births in hospitals without electricity, that the zoo of Caracas has been decimated, and people have slaughtered and eaten lions. The lions have been eaten in Venezuela! That's where your Madour got them! So these are your standards. And Mr. Tsipras says he fights for the people. And as all this seems strange to you, I would like to tell you that Thucydides said that the hybrid public expression of speech is contempt for the people. And he wrote that the insolent demonstration, the gloriousness of private life, the glorious brightness creates suspicions of tyrants. Aristotle wrote that the tyrant seeks pleasures, while the king - that is, the leader - the common good and the prices. That's the difference. Mr. Tsipras has chosen the brightness of privacy and pleasures. But that's not leadership, it's tyranny. He was tired, we heard his partner say about the disastrous summer of 2018, Mr. Tsipras. What has Mr Tsipras, ladies and gentlemen, been tired of? Did he get tired of signing memorials, cutting off the ESS, throwing out PPC and ELTA, putting taxes and capital controls, destroying the banks, handing over the public property to the excess and Macedonia to the Slavs, going for walks with Zaev to the Mostar in Bosnia while we were burning here? Of all this, he got tired and while we were counting dead for vacation, he left for vacation with the heaviest, showing his true character? Last Friday, Mr. Tsipras told us from this: The Step that we got out of the memorials. I have here from the Athenian Agency the ELSTAT communications - I will submit the relevant data on the Minutes - on that day: 'Increase of 28.1% of the trade balance deficit'. ‘Increase in imports, decrease in exports’. ‘Late debts’. And that's money some people expect to live for. According to official ELSTAT, Mr. Xanthi, the government’s late obligations in hospitals increased to EUR 531 million. 'Increase in inflation and increase in basic foodstuffs'. Even in the bread there was an increase, according to ELSTAT. 'Reduction in the volume of private economic activity 22.5%, reduction in industrial production 2.7%'. You should give this to Mr. Tsakalotos to see them, who is pretending to know everything, as well as to Mr. Poppa who is circulating here and there, telling a lot of lies about the economy. Because that's the only truth. Also, a sample of the tyranny - and I will put this in the Minutes to see your descent - is yesterday's statement by the Madam Secretary of Gender Equality, who found nothing to say about the Ambassador of Madour and sexual harassment, but issued an insulting announcement against the Chief of Officer of Anti-Population. What right? Who's this lady? A state minister, appointed, responds and insults in this way? But that's your regime, your tyrant. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Tsipras is trying to get out of his memorandum. Because we had 13% VAT on the catering, he took him to 24% and he tries to get back where we were in 2014. He also calls election pension 13th, while he has cut down the NRP and has paid an insurance contribution to 6% for health pensions. Let me remind you that in 2014 -- which, if you remember, shared the famous social dividend, which you said was one of the bloody surpluses and crumbs and all that you were saying - our government interrupted the distribution of the social dividend in the run-up to the 2014 European elections and announced that it would be relaunched at the end of May. How different from today, five years later, when you give this election allowance just in the last week before the European elections! But, ladies and gentlemen, he who is drowned in the heels of his hair is caught. Now we're waiting for Mr. Tsipras to tell us that Marx liked the summer. And tossing crumbs from the heavier promises everything, even resurrects P.S. Yanna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two colleagues from yesterday, as I said before, Mr Nyfoudis and Mr Xydakis, and then we enter into normality. The Minister, Mr. Xanthos, told me he'd talk a little later, 'cause he's waiting for a legal improvement. Also, a colleague, an active MEP, who is also a candidate for regional authority, Mr. Syntrakis, is to speak after ten colleagues. However, because he has to go for his tour to Crete, if you have the kindness, then Mr. Xydakis should speak to Mr. Syntrakis and continue with the directory. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u19	Good. In the House, you have unanimity, Mr. Synergy. I don't know. I don't know. Let's move on. Mr. Vettas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, to change the climate a little, starting with a single citizen ignoring that a Ministry of Labour cannot interfere and change the content of collective agreements, I think it makes sense. Why would the man know? Ignoring it by the Minister of Labour of the Samara-Venizelos conflict, this is incomprehensible and dangerous, but most importantly it is very disappointing. And I'm saying it's disappointing, because we need to speak with names about who gave what to the next. The Minister for Labour at Samara - Venizelos - I do not mention his name because he is missing - did specific things. It was the Minister who put his name and signature under the subordinate wage from this racist and disgusting provision, which we took back. That minister, to know what we are saying, was the one who made brutal wage cuts, pensions, allowances. This Minister has signed a very heavy agenda under collective agreements, and this Minister of Conflict Samara - Venizelos - belonging to New Democracy - has given the SYRIZA Government a very heavy agenda: two and a half million unsecured world, a million two hundred thousand unemployed worlds, hundreds of thousands of traders, professionals, business people in debt. That's what your Minister gave us. We have therefore lived through those programmes, we have seen them, they have been evaluated by the world. You think the world is a sucker and he doesn't remember. He doesn't remember when he got the debts at the Treasury. That's what you think. You think people don't remember and they'll forget. I heard things. "We have done..." - says - "...the VAT to 13%, which you went to 14%." Let me tell you something. You brought it for a few days, Mrs. Vuldesis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u21	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u22	Do you know what you've done? You brought a VAT to 13% - you were off target in the primary surpluses - without having regulated the public debt. There were 500 million missing to pay wages and pensions in February 2015 and we had to pay in 2015 50 billion. That's the VAT we brought.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u23	Since 2013, we have reduced VAT.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u24	That's the VAT we brought. We are now bringing this country out of our minds, with its debt regulated, with surpluses, with dividends in the world. Now we're bringing it. I also heard a very nice view of the allowance. Mrs Vultesis has accused her - and she blames - of providing the permanent measure of SYRIZA. Mrs. Vulture, do you remember if you had voted on a temporary measure before the 2014 elections? Do you remember that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u25	Forget easy! But we remember them.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u26	Mrs Buddhism, you don't sound and nothing is written anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u27	He's been lying all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u28	All right, what do we do? He wants his colleague to say what he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, let me express my opinion and speak. We have heard Mr Mitsotakis speak - and his members - when about gifts, that they are counterproductive, when about unemployment benefits, that they are not developmental, when about one, when about the other, when about the seven days. Does anyone think he's naive? Does anyone think there's a staff member who's wrong and advises them wrong? You're wrong. Mr. Mitsotakis has a tough agenda. He's talking about seven days, he's talking about working middle ages, because he's committed. He also speaks - oh of the miracle! - for private insurance and private medical care, i.e. whoever has been living and whoever does not have will die. This is the agenda story. So let's go to the recalculation now. You will hear many speeches today. And I want to say to the world that will hear this today: if you hear a Member of the New Democracy or a Member of the PASOK, a KINAL or a DISSY, referring to the recalculation, that is to say the deletion of the huge debts of the Greek businessman, the Greek trader, the Greek free trader, it is quite frankly going to be a surprise. Nobody's talking about it. We are therefore talking about a seismic situation which is unprecedented in the country's modern political history. What does that mean? And that's election? There has been a great battle for this recalculation by too many people and it is very honorable. And it is, at the same time, a disgraceful opposition, but also for anyone in the opposition who does not refer to this recalculation debate. Since 2000, people's debts have been recalculated on the basis of the Katrugalou law. You want this provision to be voted on tomorrow morning, so that you can look good in the world, but, at the same time, when you come - as you say - to abolish this law. I will not express any governmental choice. You should know that. But I am absolutely expressing my personal choice. I do not want you to vote for this law personally, I do not want you to vote for the recalculation. You were the main responsible, because if you had taken action since 2010 with a Katorugalou law or a Katorugalou law, the world would not owe 45,000, 50,000 or 60,000 euros. You haven't done anything at all. I therefore do not want you to vote for the recalculation. What about this law? Seven hundred thousand people will recalculate their debts, their debts rather, their contributions rather than their possible debts, what they have built over these years and will be able to regulate them in a hundred and twenty instalments. First it's the re-assessment, and then the hundred twenty instalments. Hide the recalculation in any case below a hundred twenty doses. Here's the point of the matter! That's what people expect! There are seven hundred thousand people. Open and closed shops. None of you speak of any store. None of you speak. You're talking about entrepreneurship, about growth. There are seven hundred thousand shops waiting to say a word. He will not speak a single Member of your Parliament. I'll count one, one personally to see if I'm wrong. Eighty thousand people will receive pensions in the next few years, people who would not have been able to take it, because they owed 60,000 or 70,000, and had to pay back that sum until it came down to 20,000 and then adjust all 20,000. So you understand how cosmogenic and how important this bill is. As I told you, it is the biggest seismic that has occurred in the country's newest political history. If you want to vote, but talk about it, talk about the recalculation, about the debts of the world, which are written off at SYRIZA, on Alexis Tsipras. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vetta. The following are Mr Nyfoudis, Mr Xydakis, Mr Synchronakis and we are now on the list. I say who: Hatzidakis, Emmanoulidis, Gregos, Castores, Vlach. It's the five on the list now. Mr. Bride, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it was only yesterday that a very important bill was introduced to the plenary. It is a bill, which contains provisions that make arrangements that the citizens and businessmen of the country have long been waiting for. It happens a week before the election! In fact, we are talking about a hundred or twenty-five-year-old plan, which is what the debtors say will have at their disposal to regulate their dues to the tax office, the insurance funds and the municipalities. It is, though, isn't it? The hundred and twenty instalments eventually come out much less, because it won't be a hundred twenty, but up to a hundred and twenty. Let me say this, ladies and gentlemen, a hundred and twenty instalments, but not for everyone, but only for a few. But to be more specific. For tax debts, because for the calculation of the number of instalments and the amount of the monthly instalment, income is also taken into account - which, for unknown reason, does not apply to the debts to municipalities and insurance funds - the greater the amount of the debt and the income, the more easily the debtor will earn the hundred and twenty instalments. In fact, however, the majority of the debtors will have at their disposal for up to fifty months, as the minimum monthly EUR 30, set, will function as a ‘cutter’. This means that the small - debtors who number about two and a half million taxpayers will never see one hundred and twenty doses only on the newspaper headlines. And these apply only to natural persons, as for enterprises the maximum number of doses is only eighteen and may exceptionally reach thirty. On the other hand, with regard to the debts to the insurance funds, it is foreseen that for the free professions, the self-employed and the employers, the minimum monthly rate will be EUR 50, 30 for the farmers, with a maximum number of doses of twenty, and a maximum number of instalments will be provided for the municipalities. And since the government has, as it says, regulated the overdue debts of citizens and businesses, it has also been passed on to pensions, in fact in widow's pensions. The Katrugalu law was passed in 2016. Really, what's the data that's changed since then? Is there a study in this regard to present it to us or did not have a study at the time when the pensions were cut, and now that the only difference between them and now is that we are in an election period? In addition to this, this bill thankfully includes - we must admit - some provisions which are in the right direction, such as the introduction of a protection framework for the workers of courier and deliberation or the suspension of the payment of insurance contributions for those affected by the fires in Attica last July. It also includes, however, a number of other arrangements, fragmentary and unrelated provisions, such as the arrangements for the ECA, the Labour Inspectorate, the OAED, the CSMEDA, the CBC and others that seem to have an election purpose. It is reasonable to wonder whether this is a lack of administration or something else. However, let us also go to the most well-founded reason for dismissal, which nobody knows ultimately whether it is intended to protect workers from any unjustified dismissal or to punish them, because, as it seems, clearly the prediction of the existence of a valid reason for dismissal will eventually create additional bureaucratic obligations for businesses, without necessarily providing an additional guarantee for workers, which would be the case. It incorporates European legislation, but it distorts and makes redundancies so difficult, which can ultimately be a stimulus for recruitment. It is more likely that it will eventually lead employers to avoid concluding contracts with their staff of indefinite duration and prefer an easy solution to recruit staff with fixed-term employment contracts. So what protection are we talking about, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? This bill can facilitate even some of the debtors, but it does not give in to the economy. Let's not be fooled. There is no need for fragmentary measures, such as what this bill brings. Development measures are needed to stimulate investment and, indeed, high productivity, so that our economy can be developed by strengthening incomes. We are now going to the amendments to which you are bringing the measures that you promised last week in the Zappeion. That is how you are used to legislating on the big ones and on the serious ones, with last minute's amendments. It doesn't surprise us anymore. You are thinking of reintroducing the 13th pension, which will not, as usual, be paid at Christmas, but May, six months before the next elections. You are making the VAT reduction from 24% to 13% for various goods and services, such as pasta, fish, salt, vinegar, cereal preparations and more and reintroduce the reduced VAT on the focus. But since you are reducing it, why do you not dare do what you dare to do, such as the United Kingdom, which is considered extremely liberal, but have understood that basic household products cannot be charged with VAT? I have been writing since 2012 stressing that the country cannot experience an unprecedented crisis and bear the VAT on bread, milk and other commodities. Today, then, we are discussing a bill that contains very important regulations, which should be able to breathe in the short term to hundreds of households and businesses who have been hit by the crisis and who find it difficult to meet their obligations towards the state, but even more so to households that are unable to cope with dignity. So stop legislating with carelessness, stop legislating measures that seem impressive, but which are, in fact, inadequate. Finally, stop legislating in the ballots, because you insult the Greek people with your uncovered effort to buy his vote. And you, gentlemen of Officerial Response, stop striving to worries in the face of elections. In conclusion, I would like to say something that I believe would agree with each Greek, the many formulated position of the river. Our aim is to create sustainable and well-paid jobs, reduce economic burdens on the middle class and small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as attracting large investment. Only then, gentlemen of the government, will you be able to speak of developmental measures rather than of polluting or otherwise polluting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u32	Mr Nikos Xydakis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor. Now we have to talk, 'cause there's elections coming, and it's good to see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President, and also for reminding me of the political shades, because I can also say in this sitting that two political views, two political worlds, and the way in which we understand the organization of society and the relocation of wounds - material, physical and mental - from the multiannual crisis and the way we understand that we will leave a world to our children. The confrontation of the worlds and the perceptions of the organisation of society can be said to be unfolding throughout the war, throughout the post-election and the state of reconstruction and in the years, mainly post-multiple. The policy that SYRIZA, the Left Government, can do at the moment, is a policy that is trying to cure the great verbs that the Greek society suffered when it was unarmed in the winds, in the storms of the international crisis in 2008 with a social formation that corresponds to a fragile and unsolved productive fabric, with a public administration and a political order that could not be perceived, read out the environment and react to it in time. It was this great social formation that was described in the 1980s as a small-scale archipelago, as the vast crowd of non-preferentials, in which both the beneficiaries of the redistribution were also mirrored, but many privileged ones were forced to the nomenclara which was already made by the state of the right and succumbed to it and the state of PASOK, the officials of the CEC, the super-food organizations, the penetration of all aspects of public and economic life. And just on these formations, which many became reproducers of power, Greece was found after 2000 self-sufficient, a memorial to listen to the children of the government Simitis about strong Greece of clubs and G20 and I don't know what else, to have fun and to be taken with the 2004 Euro Cup, the 2004 Olympic miracle and the miracle of the Stock Exchange party and the miracle of credit over-expansion. This world has continued to live like this with the same beliefs from the governments of New Democracy after, that we are strong, we do not need anyone, but we will be lended forever. And on this huge fencing, the period of fencing to whom we are and how we can walk, we're still afflicted by lame, crippled, wounded, but now that we've understood a lot of things, we've felt them on our side. It's about what we're doing now. I always remember a Ken Lotts film, which described the situation of British society, the British working class after the great wave of Thatchism the "Weather of stones". The film raised an issue which we now live in Greece: the great social wound of the long-term unemployed, of the people who are out of work at forty-five, fifty and fifty-five. They're people who turn themselves into social dead. These are the major problems that concern Greece right now. It's not even too much youth unemployment alone. It's a very important percentage. It's small in absolute numbers. And in any case, along with this particular care that we need to show for young people, we need to see the long-term unemployed, the great people, the people who are living out of the rapid transformations of work, those people who do not dare to dream. All they can dream about is fill out a few years of signals to get posted into retirement. Part of the social justice and the necessary redistribution that we owe as a society to maintain social cohesion, to open the doors of opportunity and of lasting social convergence - because that is the essence of democracy - it is expressed with these measures, repair and rehabilitation measures from the severe injuries of the crisis and together a core of a broader social plan for social reconstruction with faith in democracy, with the renewal of civil rights, with the expansion and consolidation of social rights, with faith in individual rights. The left-wing agenda is deeply anchored throughout the entire tradition of the modern left - from the time of the French revolution at least then - and incorporates all liberatory and manipulative traditions of the 20th century, from liberalism and from nemarxism and from the great needs that arise in Western societies from the profound transformations of work. Our care is for the world of work, for the world of free professions, for the world of economy, intelligence, for the world of value, for the world of science, for the world of research, for the world of new entrepreneurship. And all this is being summarised now that a programme of social reconstruction and democratic regeneration is beginning to unfold. I congratulate the ministers of health. Here I see Andreas the Blonde, a silent worker, a silent political hero who builds the democratic state of the new era. I congratulate all the people of the government who, without shouting, render work and honor society and respect the trouble and pain of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the Maliara Schools. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We close this first little allam circle with Mr. Synthyriakis and then enter into normality with the gentlemen. Hatzidakis and Emmanoulidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. The government restates a scene of deception of the people with the account of positive measures in Hoxha's logic, "I take you ten and return one", which, of course, in nothing changes the appalling, anti-popular and barbaric face of the government, nor the tragic situation of the vast majority of the people. That's why we call on the workers not to bite the cheese on the fag, not to be fooled. SYRIZA and the New Democracy, together, through pointless controversy, impulses, through supposedly progressive and anti-fascist fronts, try to encroach on the people in false dilemmas in the face of the elections and exacerbate polarisation in secondarys, hiding their identity to the main and mainstream, which is the slap of the people to enhance the profitability of a handful of rich states and keeping their thoughts in dangerously bankrupt logic of the smaller evil. Indeed, Mr. Xydakis, two worlds are struggling today. One is yours, all of you, SYRIZA, New Democracy, PASOK, Potamio, Union of Centres, with the main concern to rescue this barbaric capitalist system, monopolies and their privileges, imperialism and the other world is the one serving the Communist Party of Greece, in the logic of each of them according to its abilities, to each according to its needs. That's why you're hiding. That's why you're matching the importants that break the people, you're consciously turning it into a pretextist discord, fighting hard and provocative about who will first take credit for big capital. This has come, of course, on the proposal of the President of the New Democracy for the introduction of a seven-day job. The trade unions of PASOK and the New Democracy in the Federation of Food Tourism, who, together with the hoteliers, signed the sectoral contract which imposes seven days' work on hotels during peak periods, for which, of course, the Minister for Labour is proud. Isn't that right, Mr. Socrates Vardakis? I do not see the SYRIZA rapporteur and former chairman of the Heraklion Labour Centre here, who also ran to Crete to support this shameful sectoral contract. Bravo! So SYRIZA, to blur water, rejoins the bars with the Prime Minister to take down the tire job. We'd both say fight in a foreign barn. The workers at hotels, however, live in their lame working conditions, breaks and exhausting hours, without a day's rest, without rest, ruined the daily and weekly working time imposed by their own governments, the backs of employers' union and the decisions of the European Union. At the same time, hotel owners, with a turnover of just 15 billion or more last year, with new fast track investments, hotel takeovers - so poor ones - congratulate the government on reducing VAT, hoping that the dialogue between hotel owners and government will continue to alleviate the burdens of the Greek hotel, as they say, and improve the competitiveness of the industry. This dialogue includes in its menu a list of hotel requests, such as the 5% reduction in employers' insurance contributions, the rationalisation of fines for infringements, changes in hours and days, employment of kitchen staff with a waste of time and goes by saying. The cynicity of your policy, however, has neither sacred nor loyal. Not only did the government maintain the anti-labour laws of the New Democracy and PASOK for the settlement of working time, but it further strengthened them by introducing the law for a 12-hour work for hospital doctors, maintaining a reduction in overtime pay, imposing a 30-day work per year, thus confusing the daily working time. SYRIZA supports all its forces and combines European Union policies which allow and promote the twelve and thirteen hours of work a day, as well as work for up to twelve consecutive days, as they are throughout the European Union. This is all the more supported by the New Democracy and the other parties, without any reservation. The SYRIZA Government fully maintains the eighth-hour law by inventing various ways of adjusting working time, enabling the employer to increase daily working time and, at the same time, to pay the extra hours without increase. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The New Democracy and the PASOK do nothing against these policies. On the contrary, they do. SYRIZA by law of 2017, as a follow-up to the previous 2013 New Democracy and PASOK, gives a strong hit to Sunday's holiday. He established the opening of the stores on Sundays, from May to October, in the tourist regions, in Athens, in Crete and elsewhere. In Crete, in fact, the Region and all its members, SYRIZA, New Democracy and PASOK, took the lead for the abolition of Sunday's holiday. They are those today who all formally and informally support the current and re-administrator. SYRIZA legislated the Brutsi Act, which is entitled to take the title of "law-killer", which is now the Brutsi-Achtsioglou Law, which abolishes the determination of the minimum wage through the collective bargaining of employers and employees and will now be defined by a decision of the government. Here, then, is the great differences between progress and maintenance, light and darkness! And above, of course, all of you! The gentlemen of SYRIZA, especially you, do not save the spots with Velouchiotis, Plubidis, Zachariadis and Belogannis. The people no longer eat spoon, and especially all those left-wing people who believed you and of course, today, they have turned your back. The world is suspicious. It does not forget the works and days of SYRIZA's four-year-olds along with the far-right party of ANELs, either the New Democracy and the PASOK. Only the strengthening of the JRC in the European elections, the People's Association with the Red Carnation in municipal and regional elections, and in particular, the strengthening of the class forces in the movement and the militarisation of the working class with him are the best guarantee in the fight against our people to recover the losses that everyone else has removed, that is to say, together, to open up the way for small and large twists, so that the people live in a society where the needs of the many will be above the profits of the few. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u36	The speaker is Mr Hatzidakis, Vice-President of the New Democracy and Member of the Northern Department of Athens. I am speaking of all the facts, at least for those colleagues I know and where they come down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. You've told it all, all the details. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for revelations. Not for you, but for us, for the New Democracy. It's time to admit, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that we're bad people! We don't want the good of society! We don't have moms! We don't have fathers! We don't have voters! We want to fight everyone, workers, small and medium-sized, retired, not to leave a stone on a stone! We don't want to leave anything up! You've been talking all these days. You're right. Let's go down. What's left of us after all? We had the impression that we had the industrialists and the shipowners left. But we have lost them too, because they are calling Mr. Tsipras to their horns! So we're left alone. We're left alone! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And you're celebrating. Let's see why you're celebrating because you have a torque at the fairs. You're celebrating for the seven days. It's supposed that Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the only politician in the world, wants to have all employees work Christmas, Easter, summers, do nothing more, continuously, three hundred and sixty-five days a year to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u38	And clean Monday!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u39	So it turns out that while Kyriakos Mitsotakis has referred to the case of "PASTRATO", Mr. Tsipras, who won Mr. Mitsotakis, had visited "PASTRATO" since 2017 and praised the labour regime and Ms. Ahtsoglou, who also conquered, had accepted the contract. Or didn't it turn out? It turned out to be something else. Our rapporteur, Giannis Vroutzis, came to you yesterday and submitted a sectoral contract which - beware - did not speak of a seven-day operation, such as the 'PASTRATOU' case, but of a seven-day job in tourism! What do you have to say? "Screamless, breeze"! And today I have a third contract. If we look, we'll see a lot on SYRIZA. So we've got fresh cans! Collective contract of staff TRAINOSE SA 2018-2020, signed on 15-11-2018, i.e. Tsipras - Spirtzis - Ahtsoglou. So what does this contract say? It's about working time for drivers. 'Drivers may work beyond the five-day period for a further two days - seven consecutive days -.'. I hope that this humiliation issue will also be closed, which has been opened. Because it doesn't make any sense anymore. You're laughing at your resignation, as you understand. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, presents for the minutes the above collective agreement on employment, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You say, "But what do we do? There is freedom of contracts." Nice to meet you. But who is a government? Aren't you the government who set up all this bad theatre against Mr. Mitsotakis for Mr. Mitsotakis' intentions by playing the defenders of workers and their interests when all this happens with the seven-day operation and the seven-day work? And what are you? Are you trochomenes? You're not a government? Ladies and gentlemen, it's time you got serious. Do not think that this will deceive the voters. One liar, two liars, three, and his bad time! And it's your bad time. It is May 26th, the day of the European elections and the regional elections. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, you have forgotten some details about this bill. Taxes! You forgot that from 2015 to 2018 we are the first country in the forty OECD countries to increase taxes. You have forgotten that for your days we have a record of indirect taxes paid by poor people, equal to the shipowners and industrialists, the same as the elites. And now you just come to cancel three of the dozens of measures, which you yourself took at the beginning of your administration. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And, of course, it is no coincidence that following the increase in taxes at these levels, Greece is last in investment throughout the European Union. And the 2018- that was supposed to be an economic launch year - we had three billion fewer investments than in 2017. And in your days things go worse every year. Let's go to the pensions. You're advertising the famous 15th pension. But it would be a third pension if you would give 2.2 billion. And you give 800 million, that is, one third! It is a European election allowance, which you have never set outside the polls to share with every retired person who is going through it again. In the meantime, you have forgotten that you have completely cut the ESS, which cost more money than this notorious thirteenth pension, over 900 million. You have cut supplementary pensions. And under the Katorugalou law, you are making cuts for all new pensioners, up to 38%. In other words, it is a pension for every new pensioner. In order to reduce tax exemption - which you introduced in 2017 - let us not forget that a pensioner who currently takes EUR 750 and is not taxed will pay EUR 442. Let's set you up for both men and those social measures! Do I have to pass on to the doses? Why do we have the arrangements - which we are voting on today for doses? Firstly, because the previous regulations you have already made have failed since 2014. Secondly, because the infamous extrajudicial mechanism failed. You told us here that within eighty-six days there would be three hundred thousand businesses and a thousand six hundred businesses settled! Thirdly, because debts to taxi and insurance funds from 2014 to today have increased by 64%, private debt. They are official figures, which have been tabled several times in Parliament's budget. So, today you're bringing some fire solutions. They're welcome. We don't make the opposition you made. When we were reducing VAT, you were going across the street, bringing tax reductions - which were - in recent years, you have been going across. These measures are welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Vice President, you will have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u41	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. What is certain is that you have no overall plan for the development of the economy. And this project must obviously be something that has been implemented in all the other European countries and in the other former Memorandum countries. And that's fewer taxes, less costs, boosting small and medium-sized entrepreneurship to get the economy's engine ahead. That's the solution. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closed because my time is running out. But you have no doubt, and the time of the government's majority is over in very few days!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u42	After Mr Emmanoulidis Dimitrios I call on the Step, she will present her amendment for five minutes, Mrs Gerovasilis, and we shall continue. Here, Mr Emmanuelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, by tracing the political situation from 2010 until today, I have been standing on three conditions: permanent owners, short-term leases and rental. The behaviour of the Officerial Response throughout this period has shown that a perception and practice hold them, that of the permanent owners. In January 2015, we take over the government and operate in the logic of short-term leases, AIRBNB. We didn't say so. They said so themselves with the logic of the brief parentheses. And we arrive in May 2019 to threaten New Democracy with a rent, not due to the behaviour of arbitrary occupations, but our stay is done with the consent of society, because SYRIZA supports society and is supported by it. This is the route of the four years that we have travelled. And the question arises: How can these invaders in the political system withstand multiple elections - says New Democracy - despite all the strategies and tactics we have demonstrated, despite the fact that society was pressed through measures that SYRIZA had to take, even touch them? The answer lies, ladies and gentlemen, in that we are fortunately not the same. Fortunately, society has a crisis, of course it also has a memory, and most of all, it has the element of social self-reservation. It is understood that this route - painful for society - has reached a way out. And what's the way out? It is August 21st because at that time a project is mainly studied and every day in the form of greater illumination of society that every dawn is better than the day before. In this sense we have had the measures taken over the last few years. The reason for the New Democracy is that these measures are electoral. But, since the beginning, they were talking about elections, on the basis of which there should be no measure, because the whole of the previous year was an election year. 'It is', he says, 'pays', 'is crustaceans', 'it is not a thirteenth pension'. I don't know what it is. What I know is that 500 euros will be in the pockets of people who have been diagnosed. This is what you will call it and how you will present it in society. We say that this is what we had the opportunity to do and that's what we did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u44	Is it a pension?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u45	It is EUR 500 and I think the world is aware of it. What you couldn't understand is this cubicity, as you say, we did. I am referring to the referendum. It hurts you particularly because we did not want at that critical time to take the people and the country and dance the dance of Zaloggos. We have taken all this social and political burden and step by step, with an absolute sense of historical and social responsibility we have been able to find a corridor to get here today and give society financial data, and social elements that have been deprived of the old system over the years. Because the memorials didn't come from heaven at last, but the memorials came because of a robbery, criminal political behavior, both from PASOK and New Democracy, and we came to give solution and redemption to the people. I would say that it cannot be a small social calibre, the relief measure which has the character of seismicism, the regulation of debts. In the Social Age all these years hundreds of thousands of people had been thrown away. It was the people next door who were closing their stores, who were in complete desperation, and we are coming today to give a solution to what you did not think about, not you dare do, but you didn't even think, because the field of your political thought is elsewhere, to another constellation. Societies are well aware of that. The 26th of May will be the day when the Caesars will be rendered Caesari and the things of God. And I conclude with one sentence: the placement of Mrs Vulture to become the political spot in New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u46	As I said before, it will take the floor for five minutes, so that the Minister, Mrs Gerovas, will present her amendment, which will remain shortly after her Chair, if there is any detailed question from a colleague. We shall then proceed with two more colleagues, Mr Gregos, Mrs Kozobol and Mr Vlao, and then Minister Xanthos, who has been here since this morning, is ready to present his own amendment. The Minister has the floor. Medical and radiological permission, I hope you have noticed the new Luck of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u47	There is collegial solidarity. By taking advantage of the radiological authorization granted to me by the President, and I thank him, I will present the amendment with a general number of 2165 and a special 179, which has two legs. One arm relates to aerial fire extinguishers within the first article. This amendment regulates the country's debts to international organisations from which we each year hire air fire-fighting instruments. As you probably know, our country has been resorting to an international competition through NATO and NATO, the NSPA, in order to further strengthen the fleet of air means, in addition to the proprietary, the Fire Corps and to obtain helicopters attempting in the anti-nuclear period. However, although the question of the consistent fulfilment of the obligations is major, a debt has been accumulated from 2011 to 2016 in the Fire Corps. These debts arise mainly from the additional use of air means during the anti-missile period as necessary. In other words, the lease which provides for time, provides for staff, provides for maintenance. However, a difference arises each year because of greater use. With this amendment we are resolving this issue for both existing debt and for the next five years. In particular, it is possible for the Ministry to fulfil its obligations as from 2011 to the international organisations and the conditions are laid down on the basis of which these debts will be paid. Specifically, these debts are paid after they are certified by the competent bodies of the Firehouse and approved by the Law Council of the State. I would just like to stand by for one minute on what you have or have not seen, but, in any case, I think it is advisable to mention them because there is a series of misinformation about the country's armour and the new anti-nuclear period, but also over the next few years. It has been presented to the consultation, which concludes, a new law. I would like to tell you that this law is a product of many months' work because it was not easy to shape a very complex environment and simplify it, but at the same time to integrate international experience, the views of scientific bodies and international organisations. This law will have the opportunity to discuss it in the House immediately. We have also greatly increased the operational capacity of the Fire Corps and as regards the air means that this year will be ready by a competitive process that has started since the beginning of December 2018 for the rental. On 12 April, the international tender was completed and the contractor's bid was accepted, with the result that we have secured in addition to the national means and three heavy-duty helicopters and seven middle-type a year, with the possibility of increasing these up to six heavy and twelve middle-types per year for the next five years with a special option provided for in the contract. In addition, the Convention for the Conservation of All Owned Air Forces of the Fire and Police has been concluded and is implemented from the end of January 2019 to May 2020. As far as the logistics infrastructure and capabilities are concerned, the procedures are in progress with both the Ministry's money and large offers amounting to EUR 27 million. The largest is from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, as well as from many other private entities, private companies. It is also under way the purchase of fire-fighting cars and fire-fighting ships, as well as protection measures for fire-fighting fire-fighting personnel. At the same time, we have simulated two thousand five-year-old firefighters. We've hired some nine hundred new five-year-olds. We've extended five-year-old fire extinguishers' hours so they can work on weekends and holidays. The competitive process for about a thousand seasonal firefighters is under way. This means that the increase made in human resources is too great. So, for those with anguish, the country is in time armoured to deal with, not only this year's period but also with programming for the next five years, with all the procedures that have been initiated in good time, because, as I said, they have moved since December. It would be a good thing if those who make statements about all this were informed beforehand, because we see statements from people who did not see to it that they were informed before speaking and sowing a sense of insecurity to the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a field...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u48	And with this, Minister, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u49	...controversy. I am closing with the second part of the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u50	Yes, but be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, you will allow me to say this, but it was an opportunity to be in the Greek Parliament today, because this is a major issue for the entire Greek people. The second article, which is small and I am ending, is the increase in the overtime of the police officers provided here. It is the legitimate way of delivering this increase that has not been foreseen in recent years, but it has had to be done, that is, the hours planned were 16 million for the year 2017 and are increasing by nine hundred two thousand five hundred twenty-seven hours, and for the year 2018 they increased by six hundred and thirty-three thousand hours. You know that the needs of the Greek Police in recent years have been growing. The demands from staff to meet the needs are many. You know that on-board patrols have increased, with an extra task of police, among other things, in order to have a very important result in the project "PERSEAS", as the Greek Police called it, a project of apparent police, which you know is how decisive it is for the citizen to feel the police officer next to him and thus be safer. We also all know that the needs and management of the migration-refugee issue are very increased in terms of the Greek Police offer on this big issue. As a result, overtime had to be increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u52	Minister, on overtime, because I remember that this was a matter we discussed in private months ago, I have to say that you reacted positively immediately. But then you had no approval from the Treasury. Have they been approved? Is there a Tsakalotus signature on them?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u53	Of course, there's a signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u54	Is there or will there be?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u55	To table the amendment, which is costly, has signed the Ministry of Finance and it is all unsettled.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u56	He signed the Treasury. Good, have a seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u57	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Loverdo, everyone's gonna talk in turn. I'll give each one two minutes. Mr. Chiara, would you like to ask Mrs. Gerovasili, on behalf of the New Democracy, any clarification for a minute or two?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u59	Minister, the only thing I want you to say is how this will be done, because you said that there would be an essentially rightful rendering of justice in relation to the overtime of the commissioners. I want you to tell us a little bit specifically how this is going to be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u60	Madam Minister, you will respond to the end. Write down all the questions and I'll give you the reason to answer them. From Golden Dawn, would anyone want to ask? Oh, no. Mr. Grego, I'll give you the floor when the time comes. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, however, we are the third parliamentary power.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u62	Mr. Loverdo, I'm sorry, I didn't do it like that. In any case, third parties are speaking, but you are right to say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u63	As far as I'm concerned. Minister, you spoke of a draft law, which will come to Parliament, obviously, after the European elections, so in June, you combined it with the anti-nuclear period and anti-nuclear protection. After a year of last year's catastrophe, does the exercise of a legislative initiative in so far as it is linked - as you said, I do not know that - with the protection of the world and of the country from the fiery muds coming slowly? But I took the floor on this because you made a reference. But, in essence, I have been here since last week waiting for you to take the floor, because last Wednesday night - Mr President, you are also a MP in Athens - two hundred metres from Patisia Street to a friend of mine, who even had a meeting, a scary car accident. Two drunks, who were even injured, went out of their cars and fell down. The man took the wheel, don't be well, and the traffic told him that he had a command not to enter Exarchia. Although the traffic has such a command from you, it's really tragic. I invoke the Athenian citizen Dimitrios Pagadakis, his communication - because he smiles, instead of being serious - with the head of the wheel and the phrase, Mr. Kaklamani, MP of the First Athens: "We cannot enter Exarchia, we have a relevant mandate." That's what traffic says, and that's what I want it to say, but, please, without smiles.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u64	Madam Minister, you'll answer that, and that's why when you get the floor. Mrs. Liberaki, would you like to ask the Minister something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u65	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u66	But I will give the floor to Mr Katsotis from the Communist Party. [[Noise in the Chamber]] The Minister will answer everything in peace. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u67	Madam Minister, only 13 May have you answered a question we asked about the new anti-nuclear period, and I must say that with what you said today, we are even more concerned about how it will run and how it will face extreme weather, either fires or floods. By relying on the benefactors, this means that there is no design and finding these funds in order to achieve full staffing of the services and the proper logistics infrastructure, so that the Fire Department can deal effectively and safely with the lives of the people themselves all these situations that we are going to face in this new anti-nuclear period. Your answer to our question does not cover us and I say it because we have only taken it today and we believe that the government has great responsibilities and must now take steps to avoid mourning victims of the new period.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u68	I give the floor for five minutes to Mrs Gerovas, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to answer what she has heard. He chooses where he wants to answer. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u69	I will answer everything, Mr President. With regard to the first question, the method of payment is the legal way of payment. Money is approved and all its plans have been made for each employee by the relevant departments. On the basis of these plans and the hours worked each has approved the money from the State Accounting Office and will then be paid to each employee, as is the case for overtime work. I don't know if that's another question you asked or something I didn't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u70	I mean, overtime will be paid, that's what you mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u71	They are overtime due from the end of 2017 and 2018 to workers in Greek Police.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u72	There's no streamlining. That's not streamlining.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u73	It's an increase in the hours that's already happened, it's not happening now. It's a past. I told you it was from the end of 2017, I think from the last quarter of 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u74	Assuming they're going to be paid now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u75	Occupational payroll.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u76	All right, let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u77	With regard to Mr Loverdos' second question, Mr Loverdos, I did not smile at you, I smiled because - and that is why I said that I will smile - there is a huge myth, which I thank you for giving me the opportunity to disobey him here today, that the political leadership does not leave the Greek Police, as it has so far been, now has been added, to do its job. I want to assure you that the political leadership of the Ministry and the Headquarters of the Greek Police are in absolute cooperation so that we can be helpful to the operational capacity of the Greek Police. It has never been banned on the Greek police to do any operation and this is proved. There are people in the Greek Police who, for their own reasons, obviously because they want to hurt the political leadership, use this as an argument. This is the good side. That is to say accepting the political disagreement and what everyone thinks is appropriate to do in that direction. However, it is said by some who want to hide their own inability, and that is serious. Those who evocate from the Greek Police's side should consider that they themselves are first affected by what they are trying to do, attack the political leadership. For what you told me and mentioned names and names etc., a preliminary examination will immediately be ordered to see if anyone - I surely am not her - someone else who I don't know right now, told some traffic officer not to do his job. Also, if you were informed yesterday, there was only a Greek police operation in the Exarchy Square, and we already have seven arrests of drug dealers on the square, which means that there is no unbaptized one in the Exarchy Square. I am sure for my part that what the Greek police want to do, they are able to do it and they can and she can and she remains to prove it for herself. So, the fact that we do not leave the police, because we are a little bit with the criminals and a little along with everyone else, who "loves" the Greek Police, is seen by the policies pursued by each other against the operational capacity of this House. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This is my answer to you, thank you for giving me the opportunity to send it to others, such as many trade unionists who have to go to work for twenty years, but they still know who does not let them do their job. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am not addressing the trade unionists, there are trade unionists who, although they are entitled to trade union licences, do not take them and go to work. They have the right to speak and say what they want and against the political leadership, and to judge and comment. But those who have thirty days of leave a month and are not federations that have the right, do not have the right to talk about the operational capacity of the Greek police, nor about their colleagues, whom they insult. As far as the third question is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u78	It was not a question, it was a placement based on a written answer you gave.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u79	That's right, that's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u80	You said something about the law...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u81	Yes, this law which, like you, I said, has been prepared in the last month and follows the consultation procedures, etc. - he's ready a month ago - we really would like to, and I'd like to be ready sooner. I would like to tell you that it was a very complex and difficult process, because I told you that it had to take too much account of it. It establishes the National Civil Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u82	Don't go into any details.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u83	No, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u84	We interrupted for clarification, I will not turn the matter into a timely question now, we have the bill. You answered Mr. Loverdos because he's not the law already ready. Now answer the Communist Party and close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u85	All right, I'll finish, Mr. President. An integrated plan for the country was first tabled, never submitted. That's the first time I've ever had such an integrated job. There was a project that was not implemented by you either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u86	We'll see when you bring it. Madam Minister, I'm not giving you any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u87	Another proposal, Mr President, is that, in this bill, there are provisions - the national authority will not have done all its work and will not be ready for this period - there are many provisions that are necessary and better coordinated operational work for this period as well. We will see them in the debate in plenary. As to where they're paid, look, all that I told you about civilian personnel, about air means, rent and damage recovery, etc. It's a state budget. There is a state budget and programmes. There are many competitions under way for both the fire and the Police Corps and there are - and we thank you for that - private offers which are welcome, because you know that the economic crisis of the last ten years has not left the Firehouse undisturbed. We must use all types and offers of individuals and I repeat that we thank them for the great sensitivity they have shown to contribute to the armoring of the Fire Corps, as well as the self-government, which has contributed and reminded the Region of Attica and other regions, not only of Attica...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u88	Epirus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u89	And continent. And municipalities...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u90	We're done, Minister, please. It was a big break.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u91	I have completed, Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u92	We will proceed as follows. I will give Mrs Kozobol the floor - in apologies to Mr Gregos with his kindness - because Mrs Kozobol has to go to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, so that she can come before us. Mr Gregos, Mr Vlachos and Mr Xanthos will then be given the floor to present his own amendment. Here you go, Mrs. Kozobol.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the priority. Ladies and gentlemen, a flagship draft law is to be passed, after all the Prime Minister has already legislated in Thessaloniki and they are already being implemented. And instead of the Opposition and, above all, the Civic Opposition to play its institutional role, to contribute, to make comments and propose to this particular emblem - I repeat - a bill, we hear that 'you took ten, you brought us one. You've disappeared the middle class, suffocating we reach where we arrived in 2014." Ladies and gentlemen, we have not taken from the Greek citizens. We found a bankrupt country. Let me remind you that the previous Minister for Finance gave Mr Marda one and a half billion. One-and-a-half billion on January 26th, and on January 27th, there were 550 million missing to pay wages and pensions. That's all we received. And I would also remind you of these empty funds, after twelve horizontal reductions in wages and pensions, after measures of 65 billion and after a 25% reduction in gross domestic income. So the supposed return to '14 underestimates our intelligence, we do not accept it. Because the image of the country in '14 was what I said, empty funds and deficits. The fifth evaluation was not closed, nor would it be closed. The loan rate had reached 10% and 140 billion had been wings from the Greek banks. Unemployment was close to 28% and growth in 2014 finally formed at 0.3% of what was estimated for 2.7%. So you can't tell us that we didn't reach 2.7% that you had budgeted and of course you didn't get there. The insurance funds were demolished with a deficit of 1.1 billion. Four hundred thousand unpaid benefits - because yesterday Mr Brutsis said something, I repeat it, and I also have information on this - because not only basic pensions but also supplementary and one-off benefits, which I would remind you that since 2013 were not given and if rationalisation were not done, would never be granted. Of course, for the four hundred thousand benefits there was no provision for their repayment. Today, what do we have for the rest of us? Forty thousand principal pensions, forty-five thousand ancillary and ninety thousand single benefits. That's it. In the meantime, we have given eight hundred and fifty thousand benefits in total. The course of the economy is such that measures to alleviate and restore injustices are taken. Of the six and a half billion measures that we took in the three years 2015-2018 compared to the sixty-five of previous governments, we are now returning to 1.1 billion. These are the measures with the thirteenth pension, this is the cost of VAT measures in the focus and energy that return to 13% and 6% respectively. At the same time, in addition to the 1.1 billion to which the current measures are being assessed, we have re-established the social state, we have raised the health sector under collapse, we have strengthened its public character, and there is already a programme that is being implemented, that of primary health care, which emphasises prevention. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we have created a reserve of 31 billion which allows us to exert policies in favour of the many who have lifted the burden of the crisis. To those who are talking about impulseism, I would remind you that it is the pentacosarium that was given by the Samara-Venizelos coup and enrolled in the 2015 budget. The draft law to be adopted today, including the thirteenth pension and VAT reductions, as I have said, is being done with complete security of public finances and aims at alleviating the insured, protecting the work, recovering and expanding labour rights, facilitating the debtors to the public. I would like to point out here: the provisions concerning the settlement of debts are not a technical settlement of debt. For all the non-wages created until 31/12-2018, a recalculation is made with the lower contributions introduced by L.4387/2016 rather than those existing, so the total debt is reduced. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Also, eighty thousand who receive pensions are being robbed. In summary, I mention the emblematic provision of Article 19, by which the insured person's death pension is regulated and restored. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to show the strategic planning of this government to regulate a huge debt that you have inherited us and to close the second assessment, we have taken this difficult measure on widow's pensions. But the target is not lost. That's what matters. We came back when the country's public finances were better and the measure was corrected before the law was implemented. There is also something emblematic, the reasoned dismissal. Provisions are introduced to shield full employment. The OAS alternates are allowed to raise a child and provisions are introduced on the health and safety of a large proportion of workers working at great risk, such as workers in the transport of food and postal services, who offer their services with motorcycles and bicycles. The ever-increasing RCF, while we have found two hundred nine jobs that have been abolished. The results can be seen. I shall conclude - and thank you, Mr President - by saying two things. I am referring to the enthusiasm of your amendment to tax reduction, and you know that this amendment is one of the instruments agreed in the loan contract, a loan agreement which we have all voted on together, almost all the powers of this Parliament have voted on it. So, now what exactly are you telling us? Retreat from the agreed? I do not insist that this particular measure can be changed, but in reasonable terms, with negotiation, with better economics, as was the case with pensions. Therefore, this action is critical.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u94	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u95	I shall conclude, Mr President, by just one word on all this, about the psalmism and hypocrisy of the properties of the Ministry of Culture to the Participation Fund. It's really a lot of hypocrisy. All parties voted for this fund. When the time came to infiltrate what was agreed, everyone broke their clothes because we were selling public property. I want to stress here the Step forward that none of the things outside of the transaction are transferred. Just the databases, the assets you delivered to us, were incomplete. You didn't even do that, to record the public property. So using some real estate database or something else, codes entered that were out of transaction. This does not mean, however, that they were transferred to the Mortuary. Means...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u96	Mrs. Kozobol, don't make me regret making it easier for you. Hang up now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u97	I'm done. Thank you, Mr President. I would therefore like to say that there is no real estate transfer that has been excluded from the law. Anything else is moved or revealed is the result of either ignorance of law or feasibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u98	Mr Antony Gregos has the floor. Come on, Mr Grego, after thanking you for the convenience.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. I'll try to be in my time. I could have spent all my speech responding to the Minister who just left. But I'm going to make a few crises. I can't resist. I hope that we do not have to invoke her speech on safety ahead of the anti-missile period. As for the unbaptised excavations, we've told them. It's unbaptised, we all know that. Of course it is forbidden for the Greek police to intervene within Exarchia. This is done only after specific orders have been made during targeted so-called operations, but is still retiring. The arrests of the well-known para-stated 'bugs' are also banned, which are completely symptomatic and of course are immediately released, because, of course, if the hoods come out of these scum, a lot will be revealed. As far as the amendment tabled by the Minister is concerned, of course, we cannot disagree with the benefits, but before the benefits for police officers, firemen and uniforms, it is their safety. It's much more important than an allowance. With regard to the bill, I will say that it is a bill which was expected by thousands of citizens - victims of SYRIZA and New Democracy and PASOK, of course not only economical, but also indeed indeed. I'm talking about the thousands of suicides no longer recorded. It used to be news. Now the tragic number is gone. According to data transmitted to parliament lately - 2016 is the last year for which data are available - the suicides amounted to four hundred sixty-four. This figure, however, is rather indicative, because many are not recorded as such, because nothing fundamental has changed in the years of the crisis that is continuing and will continue as long as you apply the clear orders of the lenders - loan sharks. We have heard too much today from the relevant ministers, things that make us wonder if we live in the same country. The Minister for Finance even said something about energy poverty and some other incomprehensible. Obviously, as I have said before, the data on unemployment are fake and virtual. We know how they come out and how you use them. I, at least, have no known or friend in recent years who has even found a decent job. Of course, all this is far from you. You don't hear them, you don't see them, because you don't see them on the streets anymore. You don't see the closed shops, you don't see - or rather you're acting like you don't see - the parachute that wraths in the big cities. You do not see desertification in the villages and problems of farmers. You don't see the housekeeper's license baskets in supermarkets and familymen looking out for the prices if you can get some offers. You do not see PPC's unpaid accounts or the tax payments that bring to despair Greek citizens. You do not, of course, go to the people for good reasons, to see how many people are waiting until the last minute for prices to drop. Of course you don't care about the young people who leave by the thousands to find a simple job through someone. A huge lie, of course, is the exit from the memoirs. Everything that you signed is being applied faithfully. You reduced your pensions, increased your taxes, dismantled primary production, covered the high-priced, reduced the tax tax two years ago. Go on to auction homes and first homes and, electronically, to avoid reactions. As for your 13th pension, it is not a 13th pension, as the Minister has explained to us. This is an adjusted pension allowance according to pension. You once said that people are above numbers. Really, what irony! Now you're only talking about numbers, many of whom are virtual. We also see the Report of the State Accountancy Office. We see what is happening, that the measures taken by the government are EUR 1.77 billion, while the budget area is EUR 1.4 billion this year. We could say too much, but time is very little and thankfully the time you still have left to rule is short. For example, I will submit a letter from the Association of Psychiatric Clinical Greeks, because I have no time to refer to it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Antony Gregos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It says, "We are concerned about the reduction in the focus. Is it not equally, if not more important, to reduce the rate of VAT on health when in other European countries health is not charged with VAT? In Greece, the competent ministers even refuse and listen to cutbacks, while at the same time legislating a reduction in the special advertising tax, quite accidentally, about a month before the elections." He's talking about a lot more. Now, of course, in this bill, we have seen a parade of MPs. It's a pre-election period. On the streets and neighborhoods we don't see you anymore. Some people may be persuaded by these semimeters, but I still think most of them will take a small part of the money they deserve, but they know why you do it and they will tan you into the elections that are approaching. An unacceptable tax - I end, Mr President - is the one you impose on the world with the high VAT on the state systolic. You will tell me: 'Who sees and believes the political emissions - garbage on this channel?', but we continue to pay. The election lies of the Prime Minister and of the Ministers will not have the effect you wish, nor will the corresponding lies of the New Democracy. After all, I've said it before, memorials and both of them. You prove it every day in every way. I remember how people fooled Samara - Venizelou government when they said we were going out on the markets. It's the same thing now. Because you control the media, channels, and some brochures, you think your people believe. He doesn't believe either of your stationed journalists or your voting tricks. His daily life believes and the hope that you promised he was coming, became anger and disrespect. As for your bosses in Berlin and Brussels, they will soon also receive the message that tolerance and false promises are over. On the other hand, you are no longer representing anything: a small minority of parties and some enclaves. Soon everything will change and nothing can change. We will be next to the Greek people in every way and naturally against you and your destructive policies. On 26 May, we and the nationalist forces of Europe will be the winners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u101	Just a minute, I have spoken to Mr. Vlao. I have said that it is Mr Vlachos and then I have announced, after giving the floor to Mr Brutsi, Mr Blonde, to present his amendment and continue. Mr Vlachos, Member of the New Eastern Republic of the Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the one hundred and twenty instalments regulation has been imposed by the deadlock in which the government has led citizens and businesses. It is characteristic that the debts of our fellow citizens, all of us, to the tax office, to the insurance funds, were in 2014 about EUR 85 billion and that sum, four years later, has been raised to EUR 140 billion. Also, four million citizens have tax debts exceeding EUR 104 billion, and about 1.5 million citizens have debts on the insurance funds that are close to EUR 40 billion. At the same time, more than a million citizens have been seized and almost a million citizens are confronted with seizures and auctions in the next period. Thus, adjusting the percent twenty doses was absolutely necessary under the conditions that were created. All these elements I have mentioned have created the need and the need for regulation. The regulation brought about by the government, can anyone claim to be correct? It is a regulation, of course, but something could come better, after there are loose ends. There are cuts in this regulation and many of our fellow citizens when they come to regulate, settle their obligations, will unfortunately understand that this does not concern them. This arrangement, which comes, has clear points. A strong point is that it has only eighteen instalments for outstandings that exist in business and in general in our fellow citizens who have business activities. Even under conditions they can reach thirty. It is a problem that will obviously be created and emerge in the next period. So the government, and what I said before, shows that it has not seen this regulation bravely. He did not want to give a solution to the problem, but like - just before the elections, the hundred and twenty instalments came from there and beyond what happened. Also, the space it gives - forty-five days - I would say that it is a little bit, but that is something we can see and then give an extension. So there is no provision for those concerned. Here I would suggest, Mr President-in-Office, that our consistent fellow citizens of the hundred doses, who are reluctant to make their own obligations, should also be included. They are at all times at risk of evacuating the regulation they have made, because of course they have agreed a high dose, which they will probably not be able to take care of by the end. It could be consistent - I say it again - our fellow citizens of a hundred doses can join the regulation of a hundred and twenty doses. This means 'genicity', which means 'I see the problem', which means 'I want to give a solution' and not a few months later, to discuss the same again. These are in respect of the first part of the one hundred and twenty doses. We are going to come to the great amendment. Here really, ladies and gentlemen, we have four myths - in my opinion - and ten truths. The first myth is that many taste the fruits of their sacrifices with this amendment. The truth is that many really don't enjoy anything. And I mean the one million unemployed, and especially those who are long-term unemployed. I am talking about families who have no income, I am talking about those who are homeless, or who generally face problems of daily survival. The second truth is that even those of whom you chose to take this election allowance, namely pensioners, you have removed ten, you return one and you want to convince that they must be satisfied. I am talking about the ESS, which you abolished, which was on a permanent basis, and today there is an attempt to replace this with an election allowance. In view of the fact that you have voted for the tax reduction - if that is the case, and as a vote, one has to wait for it to be applied - basically what you are giving today will be reverted multiplely. I come to the second myth, namely that it comes from the overcrowding of the budget. The truth is that it comes from overtaxation, cuts in public investment, the late payment by the public to pay both to businesses and to citizens. I am referring here to something that has been repeatedly heard in this Chamber, that there are more than two hundred thousand of our fellow citizens waiting to get their pensions. Third myth: 'It is now being done, because the country's financial situation allows it now.' The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is now being paid, because it serves only the electoral purposes of the government, namely SYRIZA. I remind you of the celebrations, ties, pompous statements in August 2018 that we have come out of the memorial and surveillance. But it's been nine months since. Well, then, it is the question: Why now? Why not in October, November, February, March? Why now? The truth is that this is the largest voting takeover operation in recent years. It is not a revelation - to remind you a little, you have all seen it - the front page of the daily newspaper, which mentions "a huge response to society from measures according to the first measurements". So the measurements are what's interesting. ‘Tsipras package closes the lane between New Democracy and SYRIZA’. So this package has not been given - and no one expects it - for the relief of our fellow citizens, but for the sake of closing the famous ladder to go to the elections. In other words, we are mocking our fellow citizens. That's the essence and that's what you're going to have to deal with after ten days in the canopy. Let's go to the fourth myth. The package of measures other than social targeting has also been pro-developmental. The truth is that the VAT rates are returning to the levels you received from them in 2014 with the Government of New Democracy. In this way, of course, you recognise the disastrous consequences of your economic policy over the years. The truth is, no pro-development measure includes the package. The truth, too, is that it is not going to have election results. This has also been demonstrated on several occasions. It's just a despair move.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Vlavo, you shorten your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u104	I shall conclude, Mr President. However - and this is the bitter truth - with your policy you are trying to cultivate and intensify the division in Greek society between those who produce, innovate, generate income and those who you want to depend on benefits. You consider your first enemies and in practice punish them with exhaustive taxation and not just because they dare to be productive.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Vlavo, please be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u106	In a minute, Mr. President. The second is politically invested. You're trying to lure them. In fact, however, you are causing greater damage. You are enclaving them in the trap of poverty, tolerance, reliance on benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that our homeland is about to have another government. Elections will be held no later than autumn. It is a wishful task for the elections to be held earlier. And then the New Democracy Government with another policy will see to it that the pie grows so that everyone can enjoy something more. A government that invests politically in the power of the citizen and does not attempt to win elections in its weakness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u107	I will give the floor for a minute to the Secretary-General, Mr Barkas, who wants to give an answer to Mr Vlao. Then to Mr. Brutsis for a minute who wants to say something about a procedure and then follows Mr. Xanthos who first came into the Chamber this morning. Here you go, Mr. Barca. I'll give you two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I just want ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u109	I don't give time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u110	Don't put it on. Mr Vlachos spoke about the possibility of bringing people into the new regulation. In other words, for those who have already made an arrangement. Mr. Vlao, it's article 7 of the bill. They can choose one hundred and twenty doses even those who have joined the hundred doses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u111	Good. Mr. Brutsis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group have tabled the amendment on the reduction of VAT as a whole and not the focus, as it had come from 24% to 13%. In other words, a return to 2014, to relieve consumers, to relieve small and medium-sized enterprises, to make our economy competitive, to regain air and oxygen for the whole of the country's businesses. That is the amendment, Mr President, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. I would therefore ask, from now on, that the speakers who will follow on behalf of SYRIZA and, above all, the Government be placed on the amendment if it accepts the reduction of VAT from 24% to 13%, namely the New Democracy amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Brutsis, you don't have to testify to her in the Minutes. She's already submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u114	It's okay. There is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u115	Since I'm telling you it's already registered. Mr. Blonde has the floor. Because he's been patient since the morning, instead of five minutes I'll put seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to present the amendment with a general number of 2174 and a specialist of 182, together with a legislative change that we have made and which will share. This amendment concerns the regulation of a loose end which was discovered some time ago after the College of Public Administration Inspectors audited. In the context of multiple checks at this time, in the context of the institutional investigation of scandal cases in the field of health and medicine, it was revealed that there was a lack of payment of a due and statutory rebate, i.e. a compulsory deduction that pharmaceutical companies had to make for three years 2006, 2007 and 2008 as a percentage of the receipts they had from the insurance funds, IKA, the other funds and the OLAF. It was therefore revealed that this amount of EUR 241 million had not been collected as due by the social security institutions. The question of responsibilities is not here. I am sure that the responsible Ministry of Labour, which is supervised at that time and is now supervising the insurance funds, will do the research needed to emerge through what grid and what framework this loose end was created and there were no reflexes to be addressed. What we are now regulating is that the universal successor to the health insurance funds, namely the EEA, has the option and the obligation to charge each company the amount due and then clear it up within a hundred and twenty instalments of the arrangement with twenty instalments with current obligations. Thus, in this way, we regulate and regulate that this debt will not remain unregulated. It will be netted out with current obligations. I think that this is how we all understand that the public interest is being protected. A political conclusion is that for various reasons, lack of reflexes, oligoria, uncertainty, lack of political will - we will see this - the period of supposed growth and prosperity, the period when pharmaceutical spending on public pharmaceuticals was on the peak, the period when there were neither budgetary problems in the country nor limitations nor austerity measures, some large businesses, but also small businesses, all pharmaceutical companies, did not pay the amounts due on the basis of the legislative provisions of that period. I think, therefore, that this is a signal that the system of supervision and sound management of public money was indeed perforated at the time. This, together with many others of course, contributed to the total budget derailment and bankruptcy of the country. I think, therefore, that we are dealing with this loose end. Of course in a sustainable way. That is why we thought that because there are at present multiple charges and refunds from rebate and Clowback for the pharmaceutical industry, it should be part of the regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments precisely to ensure that this money is collected.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u118	We're not going to open a conversation, Mr. Loverdos. I give you the floor for two minutes. I'm interested in the bill now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. If the amendment makes it easier for this collection, it cannot be a Member of the European Parliament to be against it. But I would expect the previous speaker, not only now, but for about a month that we have raised this issue, to make the point that since 2009, 2010, 2011, that is, in my term as Minister of Labour, the Greek State received 387 million from this rebate. The basic adequacy of political wisdom and generosity was assumed to have been recorded by speakers on the subject and by the previous speaker. That is what I wanted to point out, Mr President, and nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u120	You were right to say that. Mr. Xanthi, I want a clarification too. It is true what I have been informed - because, as you said, it was a matter of the Ministry of Social Security and Labour. Wasn't it of the many Ministry of Health - that the companies had appealed to the Council of State, that they had won the temporary insurance measures, and that the final decision of the Council of State was made in 2011? And if that is true, you realise that the state could not demand that the Council of State decide to collect the money. Is that true?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u121	Since 2011, what happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u122	That's what I'm saying. Because here we are talking about 2006 until 2009. I saw the amendment, Mr Colleague. I know what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u123	The President is right. Pharmaceutical companies appealed against the regulation provided for by a law of 2006. And above all they appealed against the effective ministerial decision, which, in my view, had a tragic uncertainty: it did not have the signature of the Minister of Finance. And apparently for formal reasons he went down to the S.T.E. In other words, the S.H.E. did not actually take a position that a discount should not be collected from medicines purchased by the insurance funds and the Greek state. And I really am surprised that in a statement yesterday, the representations of pharmaceutical companies and all three speak of allegedly debts. So it's not like the debts. The debts are real. Pharmaceutical companies during the period when public pharmaceutical expenditure was 5.5 billion - now it is down to 1,945- had the policy to try in every way to block the performance of part of this revenue, as it had been legislated.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u124	All right, Minister. You've given the explanations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u125	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I just want to make a small point. The EEAY then established a rebate of 9%. Currently the rebate, i.e. the discount paid by the companies, is of the order of 14%. And we added an additional rebate for new, expensive drugs, which came to the country for the first two years of circulation, which was plus 25%. This is not a competition for who, in any case, pays more attention to pharmaceuticals. I just want to say, by the way, because it sounded...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u126	Don't open a word, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u127	Allow me, Mr President. I'm done with this. There has been a criticism of irresponsible and totally demagogic nature about the new strand of pricing policy, which we are promoting and which has not yet been implemented. Some party executives have been listening for some time to talk on television and say price increases in medicines and gifts to the pharmaceutical industry. The price sheet hasn't come out yet. It'll be the end of the month. To understand exactly what happened in the past, and who from oligopoly, from a lack of political will actually made gifts to the pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u128	We're entering other fields. Neither I nor Mr. Loverdos talked about alleged debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Loverdo, I can't, I can't. We're not going to blow the meeting up. I wanted clarification, which I received, that it was not possible to collect this amount in 2006 by 2011 until the St.E.C. decides.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u131	You gave me two minutes and I spoke one, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u132	Mr. Lovedro, please. You can't ask for the floor every three minutes. You can't do that. Ask you to speak as a parliament and you will say it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u133	I didn't treat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u134	We will not have three speeches of Parliament through the speeches. I know that, too, that I'm older. Well, here you go. I don't give you time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u135	I did not treat the instrument of the parliamentary representative. I asked for the floor and thankfully you gave it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u136	Good. Don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u137	I'll talk for a minute. The first thirty seconds I want to use them to say that in what I said I did not get an answer. And secondly, I would add that I really...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u138	It's coming back. You said so in favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u139	Indeed, there has been this imperfection - deliberate, unwise, I am not a detective - in the ministerial decision which we have corrected. And so it was possible to make...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u140	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u141	The remaining thirty seconds of one minute I have to call all parties - we are the first to condemn the attack on journalist Lillian Karamitru. You've heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u142	I don't think you need a call. I think it is self-evident and our proper decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u143	All parties must condemn this attack.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being followed by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the report by the Chamber of Deputies VENIZELOS, and that they have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organised and operated, seventeen pensioners of the European Union. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed as follows: Mr.Germenis, Mr.Rizoulis, Mr. Kastoris, Mr. Charakopoulos. Mr. Germenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. With today's bill, the SYRIZA Government promises many-dated debt arrangements, even giving a ton of celebrities to these announcements, hoping that you will again be able to deceive the voters and avoid the vote. And you do so in your dear habit, introducing this draft law in the form of urgency, so that you do not give any room for any real discussion of the committees and at the same time have a new story in your election speech. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] A hundred and twenty doses, then. But to whom? And to how many? Because, with a careful reading of the draft law being passed, we see that the famous hundred and twenty instalments concern the minority of debtors and especially natural persons with an annual income of up to EUR 10,000 and debts of more than EUR 3 000. This is because for debtors - natural persons with an income of more than EUR 10,000, the number of instalments is determined on the basis of the total income of the debtor and the amount of the regulated debt by applying progressively gradient rates. Furthermore, as far as the debts to tax, legal persons, corporate forms of all forms are concerned, they are excluded from the favourable arrangements, having the only right to regulate their debts in the eighteen instalments, instead of the twelve instalments that applied up to now. So we see that this regulation, and more specifically the three types of arrangements for insurance institutions, for DUs and for OTAs, which are provided for in the draft law in question, actually introduce semi-metres, trying to maintain a balance between the need to alleviate the debtors and the obligation to comply with the Memorandumary Obligations. As a result, strong doubts will arise as to whether the proposed provisions can actually create a more favourable situation for debtors, without any footnotes, exceptions and exclusions. It is a fact that serious reservations and reservations about the draft law being passed and, in particular, its effectiveness are expressing important factors in our country's business life, such as the President of the Thessaloniki Chamber of Professional, Mr Zorpidis, who rightly describes this legislation as a gift for gifts, noting that unfortunately the much-advertised draft law on the famous hundred and twenty instalments, which the market and private economy of our country have been very anxiously awaiting, is a gift for small and medium-sized enterprises. Because the only facility you provide for legal persons is to increase the doses of twelve, which is, today, eighteen, which in no way can be regarded as satisfactory. If you really wanted the true relief of Greek citizens, you would not set the conditions of Article 17, which throws out of control anyone who fails to pay two instalments or who fails to be consistent with the payment of the new debts created in 2019 and, at the same time, ensure that the extinct overtaxation is abolished, which forces citizens to become inconsistent with their obligations. We have a proposal, which, as Golden Dawn repeatedly, we propose every time we discuss similar debt regulation laws: Disconnect the maintenance of earlier debts from the obligation to pay off current or future debts. Instead of giving simple and effective solutions to the crucial issues that concern the most productive classes in our society, please be content with communication pyrotechnic articles on alleged tax reliefs and other economic measures, but that is nothing but terminology and trickery. You have long-term proof - the SYRIZA Government -, either using the corporations of ANELs or your new translating acquisitions, that you are primarily interested in fully fulfilling your Memorandum promises and, secondly, in meeting the needs of Greek citizens. In conclusion, it is obvious that you are reluctant to apply specific regulations, which would actually bring about a substantial change in the market, such as those mentioned above, and with which the debts of earlier years would continue to be served, even if for any reason the taxpayer could not respond directly to his current tax obligations. You therefore prefer to follow the plumbing path of the semimeters, the most inefficient arrangements, which in fact serve only as your election tools. The fact that in very short time, you will start losing the proposed arrangements for debtors subject to them, obviously not of interest to you. As long as the elections have passed as painlessly as possible for you and your government. Finally, it would be particularly interesting to hear how you will deal with the question of reductions in pensions, even 40%, which will be due to the recalculation of debts, especially when these are for debtors who are before the gates of retirement. So let hypocrisy and communications fiascos and take care, at the last minute, to make the present draft law as effective as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Andreas Rizzoulis has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Kastoris, Mr. Tsiaras, Mr. Charakopoulos, will be followed by the Minister, Mr. Fotios. Mr. Rizzouli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. I think that two are those elements of the confrontation and argument from the Qualifications of Civicism, mainly showing the different perception of how we perceive society, the state of the market and, above all, of confrontation with the social state. First of all, one is what I saw yesterday and on TV. On a tour Mr.Mitsotakis repeated, "We do not want citizens dependent on allowances". In fact, we have heard many others from New Democracy - they have been out of the public eye, but they are not being said in public - to say that the people who receive the allowances are lazy, that is, that we are making a part of the population lazy. Behind this logic of reliance on allowances - if you remember well the unemployed were a million four hundred thousand - a proportion of the population is actually targeted, which, with austerity policies, has gone aside and we are actually attacking the social state. This is where the question arises - for people to remember - what would happen if you were in the government who denounce the benefits and the protection of vulnerable groups, you who say they should not exist. Remember all these people in 2010-2014 and see what the future would be if it continued. They are unrepentant of the policies that have so far been implemented, but also of warfare to what favourable measures are coming, because the original draft of the International Monetary Fund and all these circles in Europe is not being implemented until the end. And we heard you get away in public, and the one with seven days. When you say "I want seven days", "to have the ability of the employer to work for seven days", discover it as long as you want to, and say, "I said it's the seven days that work, but it's five and get collective agreements". Another escaped man: the worker's consent to the employer for seven days' work. The other thing that has been mentioned is that the pension measure is proletarian. I think, Minister, that we shared 800 million in December as a social allowance. If we did this before Easter, which was the target, it would be election because in twenty-five days we had elections. We're doing it now, it's election. If we did so after the European elections, it would be election because the national elections are coming. If we announced it before the national elections for December, we would say that it is a measure, a promise, whether you will rule, to trick the Greek people. The point is that, whenever possible - and this was given after August 2018 - we will proceed to such intervention. Now come in 2019, we'll do it in 2019. We therefore act on the gradual restoration of injustices based on the potential of the economy and the freedoms we have after leaving the memoranda. And the return of gifts you say is not exactly the gift. I'm sorry - and I'm asking to the camera - is there a retired gift from 2012-2013 and then we're now giving a gift that isn't exactly the gift? You cut it then. Since 2011-2012, they go, they are finished, there are no gifts. Now we do this with the possibilities that are given. Also, for the hundred and twenty doses and all you say about the middle class: First, 80% with 90% of the people who will go to settle the hundred and twenty instalments for their pensions - 80% compared to what you have to say - is the middle class that you broke up, it's the three hundred thousand bouquets in the stores in 2010-2014. They're the ones who owe the insurance funds at the TEBE. He doesn't owe the employee, the civil servant. So your attack is in the middle class you've destroyed and you want to put it on the margin, you can't have a single pension or a single allowance to live. And that's what's important. And there's some other, smaller ones coming in the next few days. If they are not these pensioners who are waiting, who have been in debt since 2012, 2013 and 2014 and have shut down their shops, who couldn't pay contributions, tell me to know that as well. In addition, some other amendments, small, which are not mentioned, show our logic again. The amendment on cleaners, heavy and unhealthy will come later. That's our logic. How many are there? Eight hundred? Thousands? They'll be restored. The reductions provided for in the amendments are annoyed. However, the re-establishment of the social state, the support of public health and education is more disturbing. The Greeks and Greeks - and we will see it, of course, on May 26th in the elections - have realised that the future that you are evangelizing and looking after them is the past of 2010-2014. That's all your argument. We also want to see their answer, which we will see in the European elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Starios Castores has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, since over the last few days there has been a lot of discussion about ships, lower, vapours, etc., I would like to say to all of you who do not understand, that the country has turned the steering wheel now, has changed its door. We have avoided rocks and we are flourishing towards calm seas, with the crew - I will say - stricken still by the defenses, but optimistic and strong, with the certainty that Scylla and Harybdis stayed behind us. And we finally did it. We may not have reached Ithaca yet, but step by step, measure, move forward. Last August we left the memorials and Greece stood on its feet. In order for Greece to succeed, it has fought hard, with this government, in a very unfavourable context, where the sovereign European elite wanted to teach the Greeks a lesson, as he said. On the contrary, Mr. Weber, Mr. Mitsotakis' friend, the protagonist of Grexit at the time, who wanted to punish our country, because he was raising his head, but also other friends of Mr. Mitsotakis, such as Mr. Orban and Mr. Kurts who lifted up fences, closing our northern borders when the refugee crisis was at great intensity. But the battles aren't over. They continue today and will continue for much longer. Such a battle against injustice, against the policy that overruns half Greece in the insurance funds and taxes, is today's law, a law which is, in the first instance, a relief law to 1.3 million citizens who accumulated debts in the insurance funds, because in the years of the crisis they were forced to choose between their own survival and their family or to pay, to cover insurance contributions. And, of course, they chose the first. They weren't knuckles. They were the victims of the political choices made by the previous governments, which had led the funds to an absolute collapse. They were the victims of those political choices, which imposed the extermination levies, which led to deadlocks, but also to small businesses. And they are representatives today of those politicians who know very well that 97% of the debts were created before the Katorugalou law. However, they come today and make the unscrupulous or the innocent, putting responsibilities on the current government for burdens that the former had created. They dare to follow the 13th pension, once again depriving the labourers, who were cut ten times across their pension, after they had looted, without shame, their insurance funds. They have the courage to play the protectors of pensioners who left behind in 2015 debts of EUR 1.1 billion in the funds and 400,000 unpaid pensions. They have the courage to play prostates and farmers who have been treating them for decades as second-class citizens, supposedly giving some pensions that were not even with small children's pocket money. It is, however, also the farmers who are taking a breath in addition to the bill, that is the tens of thousands of farmers who could not get a pension because they owed the OGA over EUR 4,000. That limit is up to 6,000. And, of course, with their incorporation into 120 doses and with the 100% reduction in all surcharges and 30 euros a month, they can now be retired. They are the thousands of craftsmen who have found themselves incapable of serving their obligations, due to the deep and protracted crisis, which have shut down their businesses and have not been able to retire. The Civic Opposition may seek whatever pretext it wants to search the 120-dose setting. However, the insured in the country today can end with the burdens of the past. With the haircut of up to 85% of the surcharges and the recalculation of all their debts, without income criteria or other criteria, they are subject to the arrangements and can therefore definitively remove the nipple from their neck. Yes, the current government can boast. In these difficult circumstances he managed to restructure the insurance system and close a grim capital of insurance contributions, to start a new chapter where pensioners will now be able to expect increases in their pensions and not cuts. The recovery of the 13th pension has already begun, the continuing decline in unemployment and the abolition of undeclared work have brought income to the funds. They are not gifts and benefits, but they are back from the trouble of Greek citizens. It is fair that this is what is being done and that is why it is being done. They are development interventions for another Greece, for many Greece. This is our way. It's the path of fair growth. Because there is another way, your own way, the way of the New Democracy, the way to abolish the eighth hour that your MEPs voted in the European Parliament, the way of the seven-day work that Mr Mitsotakis announced yesterday and not by mistake, are all the laws that do not support many, but the elite. However, this road, your own path, will be blocked by Greek citizens in the elections on May 26th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u150	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, who is Mr Tsiaras, I say that the Bureau has already received complaints of fairness, if any, or not, you will judge that yourself - Mrs Aylonitos, because Mr Tsiaras' turn has been transferred, which was three places later, in order for him to be released to travel on a scheduled tour. I must therefore put it to the House, following Mrs Aulonitou's comment. I thought this could be settled in these contexts. Does the House therefore ask whether Mr Tsiaras would at least agree to speak as the names were known before?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u152	No, I'm not giving you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u153	I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u154	Why is it personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u155	Because you're twisting what happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u156	What have I distorted? You have come to the Bureau and you have made a comment. How can I say it differently? Is the word now the problem?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u157	You're perverting what I've mentioned on purpose.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u158	I'm sorry, I didn't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u159	You'll give him to me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u160	What do you want to say exactly? There's no head against you. I mentioned the fact that has taken place in order to ask for the consent of this House to give the floor to Mr Chiara. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u161	Do you have any issues with me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u162	No, no one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u163	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u164	Please don't address them to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u165	As the previous President, Mr Kaklamanis, has announced in this House that Mr Tsiaras should speak first, so should you, rather than announcing the names as you like, without the House knowing. That's what I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u166	Did you see where you were firing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u167	You're not doing your job well, as Mr. Kaklamanis did. I have no problem with Mr. Chiara.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u168	So you are prejudicial to the Bureau and not me to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u169	You are, because you even twisted my complaint.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u170	The superstition is on your side. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u171	You've got something to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u172	I'm so sorry. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u173	To carry out your duties as Mr. Kaklamanis carried out and not to distort events.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u174	You don't have the floor. Whatever it was you said, you said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u175	Apologise to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u176	If the House disagrees, let the disagreement be said. If he agrees, let us give Mr Chiara the floor, as I read the names.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u177	You want to present that I have a matter!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u178	Is there a disagreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u179	There is a question of the procedure that you do not do as you should!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u180	I'm asking again. Is there a disagreement?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u181	No disagreement from me either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u182	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr. Tsiaras, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty students and students and six educational attendants from the 39th Larissa Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Chiara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, thank you. I should also like to thank my colleagues for this facility, because you realise that there is a serious programme of commitments. With the interference that took place throughout the course of the debate, each of us left too far away from its own planning. However, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are essentially discussing a bill which started in a different direction, at least as far as the government is concerned, and we have finally come to discuss something quite different. What one can easily and safely conclude is that the debate has been heterogeneously defined or directed elsewhere, simply because some events have taken place, which have turned publicity on something that the Prime Minister did during the summer. Let's not be fooled. The measures which came with the rain of the amendments and the process initiated by the Zappeion last Tuesday in order to make themselves known - and, of course, to legislate - on the part of the government, would not have been possible to legislate at this time, under these circumstances. For another year the government had planned them, for another year, possibly, had made its planning and finally ended up today, in order to turn the debate somewhere else. And here, of course, is the real diversion or the real one - I repeat - switching the debate to what was originally planned. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but, in particular, listening to the Members of the Chamber during the two-day debate, which I imagine will probably be on tomorrow's day, on the basis of the pace it is evolving, it leads me to conclude that it is likely that what characterises all the arguments put forward by the Members of the Chamber of Deputies is hypocrisy. And I'm sorry to say that! Unfortunately, there is an approach of amoralism and ruthlessness, which, to a very large extent, is based on common sense. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that we are talking about the 120-dollar bill. Who doubts, through the crisis that the Greek state is going through - I mean the economic crisis affecting all Greek citizens - that such a regulation is absolutely necessary? In fact, you criticised - and the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsi, quite rightly said so - why did your previous regulation fail? Have you considered why you have doubled your fine period, as you describe it, the debts of citizens to the Greek state? All of this contrasts entirely with what you are finally trying to display as your own position. Because, beyond all others, there is one element, one particular fact, which shows your real intention. I was listening to a colleague earlier saying that SYRIZA wants to support the small and medium-sized Greek businessmen, that he wants to support the middle-class. Really, where have you seen this? In the case that you have only identified eighteen instalments for businesses, for companies? Is that what it looks like? Is that what it turns out? Is it not hypocritical to say that you are going to regulate the debts of a very large group of Greek citizens and those companies which, in fact, constitute another dimension, another projection of ordinary people not to go into exactly the same arrangement? Have you really thought that lawyers or doctors - I say - who are the bourgeoismen, whom you said you are supporting, will be able to set 120 instalments, but if these poor people have a company they will not be able to do so? Do you understand that? And we'll talk exactly about the same faces. We won't talk about anything different. Let's go down. You talked about the 13th pension. When will you stop using terms that have nothing to do with reality? If we were to speak of a 13th pension, Minister, you should have had a report from the Court of Auditors, you should literally follow what is provided for in the Constitution. Why are you mocking Greek citizens in terms and words that have nothing to do with reality? We are talking about an allowance and even election. Imagine your position in Civicism and another government to legislate in this way a few days before the elections. Where, really, is the morality to understand and which, in any case, will meet with yours, the so-called left-wing morality, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA? Would you and would you say if you were opposition and another government were to legislate exactly the same way? I say this because - I repeat - we are all at a very difficult time for our country and we all have to understand where we are. As long as populism and hypocrisy will be repeated as the practice of the political system, which, especially in this period, is obviously primarily mentioned and illustrated by government choices, this attempt by Greek citizens for nine years, unfortunately, will not be carried out in the way or in the direction that we all want. Finally, I want to make a reference to the attempt to falsify what is said by New Democracy officials and, of course, by the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis. Do you really think Mr. Mitsotakis has as a political proposal what you are blaming him for? What serious European country can this be? When you are, indeed, - it proved again by depositing multiple documents in the Minutes - those who have accepted and legislated on the possibility of businesses working for seven days. How many crocodile tears? Will you still sign and cry with the tears on the pole? Finally, he needs seriousness and responsibility for what we are doing. I understand that the government is shattered. And she's twisted by the reality she's facing. The populous Prime Minister is in great difficulty everywhere, polling is not good. Obviously you have to do some things to either change the agenda, or create another atmosphere. But this - I am sorry to tell you - works at the expense of Greek citizens. Of course, we are not on the same road, as the honourable Member said earlier. We are on the road to real growth, the magnificence of pie, the real, practically, the blossom of the economy, the creation of new real jobs. You are in the sense of "we must give the Greek citizens a gift, we must close their eyes, we must mock them just before the elections and we must save something". Ladies and gentlemen, May 26th is close. I imagine that each of us, in keeping with the responsibility of his own words this time and not those who can be identified or dictated by communications personnel or, in any case, by people who believe that the elections are being won or can be reached to the people, I imagine he will stand up against the mirror of his own responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u184	Thank you. Mr Harakopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it really is to wonder about the arrogance of certain SYRIZA ministers. We have just heard the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Gerovas, presenting an amendment to civil protection, with the task of talking about the new principle that will succeed in civil protection, a legislative initiative that will come to Parliament after the European elections. Instead of apologizing to Mrs Gerovalis for this huge delay, she comes here and scams. I would remind you that following the tragedy in Matty, where we lamented a hundred victims, the Prime Minister last August announced a new beginning. Mrs Gerovasili herself last December, when the competent Community Commissioner, Mr Stylianides, was in our country to present the new European Civil Protection Mechanism, told us that she would bring the new legislative initiative to the House long before the start of the new anti-nuclear period. The anti-nuclear period began on 1 May and the relevant legislative initiative was still to come. The second one, for which, instead of apologizing, appeared as a columnist, is the outbreak of violence and lawlessness. Yesterday we had a cruiser attack again at the A.T. Cesarean, we had the burning of a journalist car covered by the police report. We've heard something, too, really oxymomile. In answer to the complaints made by police officers that they do not have the permission of the political leadership and the natural leadership to enter Exarches to deal with any violation and any criminal evidence that finds shelter there in the abattoir of Exarches, she said that some of them are told in ELAS that they want to hide their own incompetence. If that is the case, who is responsible for selecting the members of the ELAS, competent or incompetent? We believe that the police have the operational capacity, the professionalism and the experienced staff to carry out their mission as long as she's allowed to do her job. I now come to the bill, Mr President. SYRIZA's death anxiety no longer hides. Just before the end has reached such a dehydration point, so it even exceeds every previous record of its own in make news. It does not hesitate to disperse Maximos' staff to make the most vain distortion of the words of the Chief of Officer Anti-Population, dispersal of false news, in order to play the paper of the most horrific danger. Fake news on one side and impulse on the other. The Prime Minister, who also yesterday in "ALPHA" defended his right to the pale of elites, does not hesitate to like Christ's work. Yeah, she dared that, too. Except that the multiplying breads, which they share in the form of pensions and allowances and ooh miracles, have been falling as a rain on the eve of the elections, are nothing but a result of the overtaxation with which they have kneeled the middle class for four years. So now, approaching the unavoidable defeat, SYRIZA plays the paper "Tsakalotus, give it all", in order to reduce the difference with the New Democracy, to remain in power for a few more months and, at the same time, forget the bitter truth they experience with SYRIZA and SIA in power. The aid of EUR 800 million has been baptised for the 13th and may be one-third of the amount allocated to the normal 13th pension of EUR 2.4 billion. This is an insult to the intelligence of pensioners, as the ESS which they cut exceeded the amount they are today returning from the poll. They cut EUR 930 million to give just before the elections 830 million and they also demand applause. But that is why when, outside the EKRD, you have abolished seventeen reductions in pensions and contributions, while you have left at the mercy of the god two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners who are expecting their outstanding pensions to be paid. Have you really wondered how these people are getting through? One more thing: While you are giving half a pension as an electoral allowance by reducing tax, which Mr Tsakalotos once said would once resign - ah, this flexible morality of the Left - essentially pensioners lose a full pension. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So since the Prime Minister says that he will not apply the reduction, which you have voted for yourself, let us all vote in favour of the New Democracy's amendment on not reducing duty. Here's Rhodes! More deafening, however, is your attitude to VAT on focusing and on food. Mr Tsakalotos now became a macaroni, as he told us yesterday in his speech justifying a reduction in the rate? He did not, however, tell us four years ago when he increased VAT what preferences he had. But it goes too far for the increase, an increase that would have been unnecessary if SYRIZA had not won the elections, the referendums, the "go back madame Merkel" and the dulls that would have been dancing on the markets. With regard to the incomplete regulation of 120 instalments, I would point out that the regulation gives rise to a sense of injustice to those who were consistent and will be found to pay far more than those who did not pay. However, because the ink is still fresh in the House's demographic outcome, I would like to burn the regulation for the multiples. The draft law provides for reduced rates only up to three children. From there on it remains the same rate for four, five or more children as for all three. In the intergroup committee, however, we had agreed on interventions that would strengthen the multitude. In any case, I am afraid that the 120-dose adjustment will also go sharply, as did the other 100-dose in 2015. This is because the regulation has not been accompanied by real development, which means investment, investment, and again investment, which is unfortunately not the case by the government. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that all these tricks of the 'first time left' will not have any luck in the elections on 26 May. On Sunday the end of SYRIZA will mark the bell. Sunday's short! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u187	Here, Mr Barkas, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u188	I would like to say something about Mr Charakopoulos. Because colleagues from the Officerate on their behalf from the Stepping of the House make a mistake, I would like to point out that. Mr Vlachos said so, and I would like to say it again for Mr Charakopoulos. Those who have arranged, Article 7 enables them to join the new arrangement. They can...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u189	It's not about insurance, it's about taxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u190	So, ladies and gentlemen, when you say something from the Step of the House, it is good to clarify it. And Mr. President, I'm ending with this....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u191	It was therefore a question of outstanding cases of taxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u192	And because he spoke of a catastrophic distortion of what he called the Chief of Police Response on the part of the government....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u193	Now we're going somewhere else.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Barkas, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, allow me for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u196	If it is for every speaker or group of speakers, the Minister will take the floor and be placed....
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u197	I'll be done. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u198	We want the floor, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u199	You gave a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u200	I sat down and made an improvement in the text of the so-called Chief of Police Representation, which says: "When an operation agrees with the workers through an operational contract to go from five to seven days in agreement with the workers and with much better pay and with increased rights and agrees with both parties, we do nothing but acknowledge that we are in a world that is changing and that workers, businesses and the state must adapt to this new reality. Sometimes giving a woman a chance to work from her home is good, it's not bad. He may go against traditional eight-hour work five days a week, but it is good." This is the improvement of the Chief of Officer's Responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u202	Here, Mr President, you have the floor for a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, I understand the concern of the Deputy Minister of Labour and the SYRIZA and the government to cover the great gave they have done. The gappa was that they denounced the Chief of Police Response because they praised the industrial relations and the company "PASTRATO" for a contract that Mrs Ahtsioglou and Mr. SYRIZA and Mr. Tsipras and a factory he went to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u204	Where does he write it? Where did he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u205	Watch out. The paradox is that since yesterday the revelations made by a Step of Parliament and by me as rapporteur and by the Vice-President, Mr Hatzidakis, who presented two contracts to you, which, with the signature of Ahchioglou, Tsipras, SYRIZA bring to Greece for the first time the seven-day work and we denounce you for absolute hypocrisy. So answer, is it possible seven days' work and to hide and pretend? A little shame would do good!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I would like the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u207	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u208	Because every three and a little while the rapporteur of the New Democracy speaks either to remind us of her...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u209	Who took the floor? He didn't take the floor. The debate was initiated by Mr Barkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Mada, the New Democracy ward was inflicted on or out of import. The rapporteur has asked her why I wanted to reply to Mr Barkas's words. That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u211	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u212	Sorry to interrupt, I'll give you the floor. I have stressed and said, like the previous President-in-Office, that if it is for every placement of a Member or a group of Members to ask for the floor and intervene in order to oppose it, we will not be able to finish not tomorrow, but even the day after tomorrow. Here, then, you have the floor to say what you want to say and to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u213	Excuse me, too. Since there has been an intervention on duty-free, an amendment which has been tabled and a second intervention, I would just like to say that this issue, on which Mr Brutsis comes and comes back, and on tax-free and collective agreements, has been clearly answered by the Minister yesterday. Now let everyone be judged by what he says and does in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u214	Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. I want to start my speech with a reference to Mr. Mitsotakis' previous interview, which coincided with Mother's Day and to stand up to the nightmare future that Mr. Mitsotakis plans for Greek mothers. So he revealed that he wants to abolish five - day work and legislate on seven days. After the announcement of the eighth hour, after the intolerance to the thirteenth pension, after the intense reactions to the increase in the minimum wage and the abolition of the subsistence and permanent desire to cut all benefits, he holds for the Greek mothers a future bleak, seven days a week elastic working hours more than eight hours if needed in the day. This is a middle-aged working population that will prevent new generations from creating a family. Mr. Mitsotakis is being cut lately for the demographics, but he disproves himself at the first opportunity. Only terror causes what is evangelized and trying to hide the real picture with promises of a thousand. Once again the right-wing project for the absolute leveling of the social state that we have built these very difficult four years, along with the Greek people, has been revealed. We, gentlemen, received in 2015 a child’s allowance with a budget of 650 million, which received a million four hundred thousand children. How did they get it? They took it unequally, 40 euros for the child. We made it 70 euros the child and within a year fifty thousand more children received the allowance. We gave 1,100,000. We designed it digitally and fairly. Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis, to these mothers and tell them that you will return to what you planned and given. In 2015 we received seventy - nine thousand free places in nursery stations and increased them in just three years, very difficult years, in a hundred twenty - seven thousand. Why? Because we incorporated the poor and unemployed mothers, and not only the workers, which the previous governments had excluded. So, to these mothers, Mr. Mitsotakis, go and tell them that you're going to eliminate them again. This year, Mr Mitsotakis, we will cover - and listen well, once and for all - all positions, all the needs of the mothers, free of charge, in all kinds of kindergartens in the state. With the housing measures today, two hundred forty thousand approved families or six hundred thousand fellow citizens take the rent allowance for the first time, among them more than two hundred thirty thousand children. You can also tell these children's mothers that this allowance will also be cut off, because I don't hear a word about the housing allowance. We have instituted school meals, which have been so undermined by New Democracy, and today a hundred and fifty - three thousand children eat free, every day, hot meals in a thousand schools all over the country. Now Mr. Mitsotakis remembered childhood obesity, while all the time, he and his party ran through school meals, which the Agricultural University plans against child obesity. We have a plan, gentlemen, by 2022 - here we will be - to extend this programme of school meals to all schools in the country, six hundred thousand meals a day, precisely because that is what matters to children. Go, Mr. Mitsotakis, to these children and to these mothers, tell them you'll cut off the school lunches. He promised in his interview Mr Mitsotakis that he would make available EUR 1 billion for the minimum guaranteed income, as he calls it. We have heard this plan again in 2015 from the International Monetary Fund when it was pushing our Government to implement it. This plan predicted - that is what you want to say and I will prove it today because this is the case - ladies and gentlemen: to find out, the IMF said in 1 billion, we had to cut off any allowances that would give us this 1 billion dollars. You have this on the back of your head every day and you don't tell the Greek people. So what did the IMF say? He didn't say SYRIZA was giving benefits. The IMF said you'd made two hundred allowances. You had made the two hundred allowances and given them from a hundred and twenty different sources, with transaction and involvement. So you're going to cut them to save $1 billion today. Today the welfare budget is 3,200,000. If we take away the $1 billion, which you have now remembered and promised, for the minimum guaranteed income, I fear you are preparing for a slaughter of 2.2 billion left. That's why it's the war against benefits all this time. We hear the great myth of propaganda that SYRIZA made the benefits. In 2015 we found fifty-four employees, two hundred allowances, as I said, from a hundred to twenty different sources, with opaque criteria. Within two years we have established a digital welfare state, which, with two pillars, on the one hand, states, regions and forty-five Community centres and, on the other, the OPEKA, the Organisation for Digital Social Solidarity Grants, gives all this digitally, without 'hands', without trade, but immediately and transparently. The benefits are six, my dear gentlemen. It's the CRL, it's the child's allowance, it's the roof allowance, it's the wheelchair allowance, it's the overtime allowance and the rural focus allowance. We are finally asking Mr Mitsotakis which one or all of this and how he's gonna cut it? For us allowances are a level of parity for the vulnerable, for children, for families, for the elderly. What do I mean by that? Tell me a four-member family with two kids is equal to a four-member family without children? The child's allowance and all benefits and services ensure this rate. We therefore consider the allowance to be the same, not a gift or a grace. That is why, with the draft legislation that is being passed today, we exclude it from the incomes of the citizens and take it. Look out here. We're doing this on the roof, the child, the crippled man. Because, as Mr Mitsotakis says, we keep people dependent on allowances and recycle poverty. With the exception of our income today, they are not falling into a trap of poverty. That's why we're doing it. I hope you'll vote for it. Ladies and gentlemen, social protection, pensions, welfare, are the third pillar of the social state. Together with the other two, health and education are the citizens' shield of fair growth, social cohesion and the fight against inequalities. This social state has been hit throughout Europe, now in the period of the crisis. This social state was the victim of neoliberalism supported by Mr Mitsotakis. This social state has re-established it in difficult circumstances, step by step. The people will not allow you to destroy it again. With the bill that we are voting on today, we are strengthening the welfare state with additional positions, for the first time permanent positions in the public welfare centres, which have come to an end and which are based only on patriotism by the Greeks, namely the workers, all this time. These public centres had come to bear the burden of decoupling and assumption and adoption. That is why we are strengthening them. We amplify them because we have resuscitated, because we have achieved 'one by one'. And Mr Mitsotakis is in the process of bringing us back to 'five to one', five to go and one to take, to make it all private. Otherwise, it is not public sector private. That's how you want to do it. This is the dilemma of the European elections. If we allow the social state to be dismantled in Europe, that is to say. And here, in the name of growth and investment, we're going to start a new start. In conclusion, I want to refer to a great myth moved by the New Democracy for the middle class that SYRIZA destroyed it. According to ELSTAT's figures, from 2009 to 2015, eight hundred twenty-two thousand of our fellow citizens from the 5,000, which are the middle layers of our country, have passed into the poor layers. What does that mean, dear? It means that one out of six of the middle layers passed into the poor layers by 2015. At the same time, those who remained in the middle - these 5 million who remained - lost 37% of their income. Their incomes were from 24,000 to 34,000 and reached 15,000 to 21,000. They lost 37%. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. With ELSTAT's figures, I'm saying this and I've submitted it already since last week. But Mr. Mitsotakis said something very interesting. We're interested - he said first of all - to raise the pie. So, who's the pie? The national wealth, i.e. GDP, gross national product. Listen to me. When within a year from 2009 to 2015 this pie, GDP, lost 25% of its value, they come today and say they will increase the pie. Because - he says - then he can give for the welfare state as well. How much credibility can you have? Will your citizens trust you for ruining the pie? He says again Mr Mitsotakis: "If we do not produce enough wealth, we will not have resources to give the social state." From his speech are those words. Here's our big difference, gentlemen. Mr. Mitsotakis believes that the social state does not produce wealth, is a burden on the state budget and wants to grant it to private capital. There, of course, what's weird? - Once you transfer it to private capital, it produces wealth. See private hospitals, private universities, see private insurance, see private institutions. That's where it's beautiful, producing wealth! But when it's in the social state, in the public, it doesn't produce.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u216	Madam Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u217	I'm done, Mr. President. We therefore believe that welfare expenditure is developmental. That's why we took them to 3.2 billion out of 859 million. Ladies and gentlemen - I have finished - these days - you have all noticed this and let us do what you do not understand - the people are rising. We've seen this before, we've lived this before. We see them, we meet them on the streets. And the message they're sending is that they're never gonna give you their future again, their luck. In the end, Mr. Mitsotakis, you will stay with the make news, the mud and the black propaganda.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u218	Allow me two announcements. The Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Presentation of the donation contract between the Greek State, the Children's General Hospital of Pentelis and the contributors to Elizabeth Papagiannopoulou's covenant." The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs shall submit their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Under the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a border crossing point in the region of Prespa Lake and other provisions’. The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs shall submit their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Following the Agreement between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Northern Macedonia on the establishment of a new border crossing between the two countries, which will link the Protagonists to the Hellenic Republic and Majden (Majden) in the Republic of Northern Macedonia’. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Andreas Loverdos is seeking permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period from Wednesday 15 May 2019 until Friday 17 May 2019. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u219	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Mrs Alonitou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u220	Who's next, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u221	After Mrs Aylonitou it is Mrs Vayonakis, Mr Theo-Conservative and Mr Tragakis who, because he was in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure of the House, has asked for - it is written below - to be put forward. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u222	After Mrs Alonitou, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u223	Okay. Here, Mrs. Alonitou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, it has been nearly nine months since we came out of the memorials and I am looking to find out where this fourth memorandum is hidden, which is still invoking the Civic Opposition today. Where are the measures of austerity and burden on the citizens hidden? On the contrary, we have seen collective labour agreements return, and I say 'Dad, ashes in the eyes'! The collective agreements, however, were extended to eleven branches of work, resulting in an increase in wages for about two hundred thousand workers. I say: 'The beginning has been, somewhere will hide the fourth memorandum below!'. A dividend was given for the third consecutive year. The pension cut has been abolished. Well, could this last happen within a memorial and, indeed, with Mr. Mitsotakis' grumbling to the lenders not to give up Tsipras? What's going on here? Relief measures continued with an increase in the minimum wage of 11%, a reduction of 27% for young workers, an increase of 27% for young workers, a 30% reduction in HICPs in mid-weights, and a 50% reduction in insurance contributions, a reduction in tax rates, a reduction in housing allowances, the recruitment of teachers for disabled people, protection of first residence. What's all this? The destruction of the economy, New Democracy tells us. Then how do we get out on the markets and even at low-15 years of interest? How did unemployment fall to nine units? How were three hundred and eighty thousand jobs created? How does all the indicators of the economy show a steady improvement? They realize that Mr. Mitsotakis is coming to power and they put their good things to welcome the social level that will bring them! So masochist Greeks! Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on the hundreds of twenty instalments, the debt arrangements of our fellow citizens, debts created in 2010-2014 - when 25% of the country's wealth has been lost - and debts to social security bodies, tax administration, OTAs first grade. Today, then, eighty thousand of our fellow citizens are being given the chance to retire. Because in your policy, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have excluded them from their pension rights. And it enables thousands of our fellow citizens to be relieved by regulating their debts. We are therefore discussing another step that brings us closer to normality. We are also discussing a four-year plan, with permanent measures for citizens, such as the 10th pension and the reduction of VAT on food and energy. All these measures are election measures for the New Democracy, as were those of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki, which have already been passed and implemented. That is why, in the first instance, the New Democracy colleagues denounce them and then vote on them. How can they not vote on them, after the Government has taken over the New Democracy programme, as its officials call it? We are grateful to the people who make it easier for them and make life easier for them so that they do not get tired of legislating later! For this reason, as soon as they hear the Prime Minister say, for example, that it is committed to not implementing the abolition of duty, the New Democracy is running to bring us an amendment to allegedly facilitate, speeding up the process. What if they had integrated the abolition of duty into their program? What if they took down the imported tax rate - which, until then, did not exist - to 9% in order to compensate for the abolition of the tax which they had in their programme? They put some of their neoliberal principles aside, pretending to care about many, because they think citizens eat spoon! Just like the abolition of the pension cut, which had been well integrated into their programme, and this Commissioner came and witnessed the possibility of not cutting pensions and ruined everything. They were then going to table amendments that they did not want, in good time, the pension cut when they had invested at least half of their campaign in the indignation of pensioners. Well, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, some gymnastics don't hurt. You are running to table amendments after the Prime Minister's announcements. Keep forces to denounce with noise and then loosely vote, so that you don't lose the pins. But what about the thirteenth pension? These pensioners are taking over Mr. Mitsotakis. "Retired people don't want any benefits. Work for their children wants", says Mr. Mitsotakis. Why, one of them undoes the other? You think these retired people who meet in the street call them jokes like that? Has he not realised that, on the fifteenth - twenty days after they are retired, many of them cannot go to the supermarket? And you're telling us that we're giving the thirteenth pension to half, are you the ones who abolished it? Are you telling us that the government is malting the dignity of pensioners and mocking them with crumbs and aspirins, paying a shameful election bonus, you who cut 45% of pensions? What did Mr. Tsipras say, damn it? Getting a permanent 15th retirement? It is permanent that the hours of those working, workers, do not have a stop to New Democracy. Working from morning to night, finally adjusting to the times that change. It's over eight hours. Don't you see the Austrians, the Hungarians, who are New Democracy standards? Dozen hours and put seven days a week of work and joy! To be seen by the good God, to work in the world, and to give his own day of rest for work. All these work measures I mentioned to you by Mr Mitsotakis will impose them for our own good. For the most part, in order to convince, it will also come to the assistance of the IMF, because how else can it cover its anti-social program? But this permanent thirteenth pension ruins the plans. It stood with pride Mr.Mitsotakis a few days ago to explain with pain of soul to the pensioners that the Greek economy cannot withstand a third pension. So, how does Tsipras say he can stand and, not only does he say it, but the fearless one actually legislates it? He's ruining Mr. Mitsotakis' image outwards, who obviously doesn't know what's going on in the Greek economy or does he know, but does he realize he's uploading the account and doesn't know how to deal with it? Mr Mitsotakis had not provided for Mr Tsipras's expenses for pensioners and our weakest fellow citizens: 1.8 billion for the abolition of the pension cut and 1.8 billion for the reduction of duty-free allowances and 830 million for the permanent thirteenth pension. All together with the EUR 4.5 billion for the implementation of the New Democracy programme, for the reduction of the taxes promised, the total is EUR 9 billion. Where will this money be found if it does not cut wages and pensions and if it does not abolish the social state? Ladies and gentlemen, for this government, which prioritises social justice, the money to satisfy social needs will always be, but only if you, gentlemen, have long been in opposition. And that will be taken care of by the Greek people in every candle in front of them in the coming space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u225	Mrs. Vagonakis, can we give Mr. Tragakis the floor? Do you have any objections? The previous President-in-Office had already made a pre-consultation with him to give him the floor by ending his committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u226	I have no objections, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u227	Come on, Mr. Tragakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u228	First of all, I thank the ladies and gentlemen, but I was in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and could not speak in my turn. Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the substance of the draft law, let me point out, with the long political experience, an unambiguous rule of politics. When the downhill starts for a government, there's no brake coming in. And the downhill of the government has no stop. That's the truth. No matter what they promise, no matter what they give in the election, the world does not change its mind. He's learned them now. For four years the SYRIZA government systematically undermined the productive economy and consciously bare the middle class with massive overtaxation. In this harsh reality, the Prime Minister, in a clear state of political panic, announces election relief measures, devaluing the intelligence of the Greek people. They are measures that as a whole seek to return to part, without doing so, in 2014. With this bill, and indeed the euro-elections' stay, the government reintroduces the widow's pensions it cut after four years. It gives the famous European election allowance or a privilege for us pensioners without any sign of shame. He does not hesitate to baptize an allowance until the thirteenth pension. A reference here: As you know, a pension regulation must have the approval of the Court of Auditors, which does not have it. So only the fact that you put the word 'constitution' must concern you. It's not a pension, it's a benefit, it's an allowance. The monthly cost for pensions at the gift level corresponds to about 2.1 to 2.2 billion euros, when the gift announced by the government is only 800 million euros, thus less than half the possible gift the SYRIZA government seeks to share, while at the same time it has already deducted a billion euro from the low pensioners of the CSCE and is currently returning to them 800 million as a European election allowance. At the same time, it has taken up over four years of pensioner's wages, through the health contribution, 2% in main pensions and 6% in supplementary pensions, resulting in an annual cut of EUR 750 million. In addition, pensions have not been granted for two years. The outstanding pensions exceed two hundred and fifty thousand. Not a single pension is given in 2019. This is so that we can have the result of the so-called overcrowding. It brings the much-advertised regulation for seven months of the hundred twenty-dollar arrangement, while the debts of citizens and businesses to tax and insurance funds have been spread and have led them to despair and tragic deadlock. The regulation of 20 instalments is necessary and necessary as ever as a result of the government's exterior budgetary policy. We will vote for it, as citizens and businesses must finally resurrect from the burdens of the debts. However, we can remind you, for restoring the truth, that in 2014 the New Democracy had brought about a similar arrangement, but then it was the movement “I do not pay” and that is why all the claims against taxes and contributions were ejected. In 2015, SYRIZA had brought the much-advertised regulation of so-called 100 doses, which would supposedly solve everything about the problem of late payment and relieve business and citizens. The results of this 2015 arrangement are as follows: only eight thousand eight hundred cases, that is, 0.06%, were completed in the arrangement. The 140 billion that Greek citizens owe must be regulated, indeed. Unfortunately, it is another bill, which provides for nothing for consistent citizens and businesses, no care for any of them. The main thing, however, is that the regulation provides for only eighteen instalments for firms. But this ultimately undermines the national interest and the national economy. The bill provides for a reduction in VAT - it is assumed - in total focus and that is not the case. First of all, VAT in 2014 on the focus was 24% and we took it to 13% and now they're trying again, but it's not all about the catering products. That is why we have tabled an amendment proposing a real reduction in VAT on the whole focus on basic food, electricity and gas. As far as tax reduction is concerned, the Finance Minister in 2015 pledged to increase duty to 12,000 euros. Instead, the government has already made a reduction in duty, while it has voted for a second reduction, which will apply from 1-1-2020. This for a pensioner of EUR 750 means a reduction of EUR 342 at tax level for the first time. The New Democracy has voted against the tax reduction, and today we have tabled an amendment to the entire parliamentary group on the failure to implement the second reduction voted by SYRIZA. We call on you to vote on this amendment, as well as we call on you to vote on the amendment on focusing, on electricity, on the amendments we have tabled. The election package announced by the Prime Minister is therefore not part of a comprehensive plan for the sustainable development of the economy. We shall vote on them, since they are measures which actually replicate us, as well as our own commitments, which correct a few of the many mistakes made by the government over the last four years. However, this government proved to be unable to improve the composition of wealth. It cannot strengthen supply to the economy. The surpluses come from the overtaxation of households and businesses, seizures, internal payment stop and the collapse of public revenues in critical and socially sensitive players. They do not result from the production of new wealth. What the country urgently needs is a step forward in the future, with another government, which will put forward a programme of overall economic and national reconstruction aimed at developing and creating good jobs. What the country needs is a government of New Democracy, a political change, with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u229	Mrs Vayonakis has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Theocratic, Mr. Kyriazides and the Minister for the Interior will be followed by Mr. Haritsis. Mrs Vagonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u230	Ladies and gentlemen, of the figures presented yesterday by the Minister of Finance, which were many and interesting, what I stand out is the reduction of the scissors between the poorest incomes and the richest in 2017, because until then there is evidence. Do not tell me that this has been done downwards, because the fact is that the rich have become richer during the crisis. What does that mean? That the abrupts of the crisis were overtaken? No, of course not. It simply means that the measures taken in the crisis by our Government, already starting in 2015, which concern in the first phase the poorest layers, the income of social solidarity, all kinds of social measures such as reconnection of electricity, school meals, etc., and in second phase those relating to the middle layers, the increase of child benefits, the rent allowance, the more doubling of seats in children's stations and other places, have produced a result. Personally, I have always watched the indicators of poverty, especially child poverty. In recent years these indicators, based on ELSTAT's data, have fallen. We have not reached where we would like to see it yet, but it is important that they gradually fall. At the same time, most indicators in the large picture of the economy are greatly improved, not to say spectacularly. The development of GDP, the increase in exports, the increase in engineering equipment, the upgrading of all rating houses, which I am sure CSR monitors diligently, the balance of revenue and expenditure in 2017 and 2018, especially after the 15% deficit of 2010, and a number of other indicators show that the country's finances have been housed and increased. Surely we've been away since the summer of 2015, when the friends of Shoeble and Weber wanted to lead us to Grexit, as they are today all well known. So we're on a good track. We are planning and slowly implementing with the most dynamic, productive parts of the Greek society what we call "fair growth" and on the basis of our work we are addressing the Greek society and that is what we want to be judged. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an important bill, because it is about the lives of many people. The regulation of the hundred and twenty-dollars expected by the market and households to breathe together with the amendment of the Ministry of Finance to reduce VAT on food, focus, energy and the Ministry of Labour on the thirteenth pension is a great breath for people and the economy. At the same time, there are many interventions on employment rights, such as moving from the absolute employer's initiative to redundancies in the need to justify it, limiting the responsibility of workers in the event of slight negligence, measures concerning dicyclopedia distributors - I think the latter is a very important measure, because this sector of workers has paid with its blood in Greece, but also in my town, Chania, the lack of protection measures - to strengthen the control mechanisms, such as the ADR, etc. There are also interventions concerning social welfare providers, the Minister spoke about them beforehand. It is planned to strengthen them with targeted permanent recruitment and ancillary staff, measures for OAED and its employees, but provision is also made for irreparable and duty-free allowances for disability and housing allowances. And a number of other positive measures relating to our fellow citizens, such as the extension of the grant of disability allowances until they pass through the CSDP regardless of the rate of invalidity or Article 74, concerning the recruitment of persons of special categories, multitudes, small and medium-sized enterprises and relatives, children of ethnic resistance fighters, disabled war and third parties, to legal persons under public law, to private persons. The truth is that there are so many positive measures in this bill that it is impossible to mention them in detail, but in some way I say that they need to be known. I would like to take the time left to make two remarks on the settings of a hundred and twenty instalments. Firstly, one of the most important problems that the bill solves is that they are being detached and can receive a pension for our eighty-thousand fellow citizens, who, while having all the other conditions, could not get a pension in the economic crisis because they could not pay their debts to the insurance funds. This can now be done because, apart from the deduction of interest and surcharges, the capital is recalculated and the instalments can then be paid by retaining part of the pension. However, during the stakeholders’ hearing it was reported that the recalculation should be at the discretion of the debtor, a result of its own choice, as it relates to the amount of the pension. I think that is clear in the explanatory statement. The Minister has mentioned it, too, but I think it should also be made clear in the law. Secondly, in the debate with the bodies it has been mentioned that the number of doses for legal persons of a speculative nature is small, as well as that companies of a homogeneous nature, since they are natural persons, should benefit from the treatment of natural persons. I believe that, in spite of all the debate that is taking place on strategic malpractices, the Ministry must look carefully towards these more positive arrangements. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with this: the measures which we are debating today - I believe that they will receive a large majority - are of a lasting nature. These are measures that allow us to make budgetary margins. They follow a series of positive measures from August 2018 onwards. On the same road we will continue wisely, with a plan and a knowledge of our responsibility towards the Greek people, especially to those who have been affected all these years by the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Theocratic has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed only eight months after leaving the memorandum, from August 2018 until today, memorials in which you, colleagues of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, put us to pay the mistakes of the few, that is, your own mistakes. Look how much has happened within eight months to this day. I have to say, pensions aren't cut. It is very important, because the whole Greek society was afraid of it and we were constantly pointed out, "If you don't cut pensions, we are with you." We didn't cut them. The minimum wage has been increased, the subordinate has been abolished, social contracts have been reinstated and the first home rent has been subsidised or the instalment of the housing loan. Social dividends were granted for the third time. Two and a half million uninsured continue to receive free insurance, etc. What we are voting on today. The hundred and twenty doses to the FBI with recalculation. Very importantly, the entire Greek society has been waiting for this for years. Our fellow citizens will settle their debts. There will be a haircut in both capital and in surcharges, because the contributions will be recalculated from the beginning of 2000 with the Katorugalos Law and will be decapitated by some seventy with eighty thousand of our fellow citizens who could not receive a pension because they had loose ends in their insurance funds. And how can they not have, with the crisis he's here? We also have very favourable provisions for farmers. What else do we vote for? The 15th pension, and we permanently make it the thirteenth pension. The abolition of discrimination on widow's pensions. Another major wound that hurt Greek society and it is time to abolish it. We have a reduction in VAT on food, energy - electricity and natural gas - and, as I hear from the State Secretary responsible, Mrs Papanatsiou, it will also bring improvements in legislation - it is not present - and the reduction in VAT will also concern districts, Kozani, Ptolemais, Amytino and Megalopolis. We are today voting for the 100 doses in the municipalities, the hundred and twenty doses in the taxi for natural persons. For legal persons of a speculative nature it is eighteen to thirty and I agree with the previous speaker that an effort must be made to increase doses for companies as well as for companies. There are many beneficial provisions in the bill. It has the justification for redundancies, other provisions on the transfer of lorries and much more and they have been announced by the Prime Minister for 2020: a reduction in the abolition of the solidarity levy, a subsidy for workers, beneficial provisions for the islands and for mountainous areas, a reduction in the cost of oil - which is very important for our regions in western Macedonia - and a reduction in the tax on cooperative farmers, a reduction in the interest of housing loans and much more, while it is very important that the Minister of Finance said in his interview, that we will try to bring back in a targeted way and in targeted population groups the EASA. In all these positive measures of Alexis Tsipras and our Government, can the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis oppose what they have done and what we have done, who are and who we are? No, it can't. That's why he avoids the debate, like the devil the Lebanese. What can he say in front of the Greek people? And it's a global originality. All over the world, the opposition is begging for debate and the governments, the Prime Minister, are refusing. It's usually like that. And in Greece that's how it's been a lifetime. Here, for the first time has been asked by Prime Minister Debate to refuse the Chief of Staff. So how's Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy? It throws the ball in the platform with the triple "security, Prespes, middle class". None of this, however, is true, nor does it happen at their platform that we are being beaten politically. Why? I get them one by one. First of all, security. The figures, the official evidence of crime show that the situation is the same and better over our days. But what does New Democracy and Cyriakos Mitsotakis do? They lift up very curly, they hypocritically break their clothes when we have damaged the type of broken windows. I personally condemn all of SYRIZA and all of these defects, broken windows. Let us remember that they have always been for days of New Democracy and for days of PASOK and in more tension. And "bouques" became in police stations and in Exarchia there was a mess. That hasn't changed. I wonder, however, how insecurity did the state of EUR 241 million have been created by pharmaceutical companies in the country? How many broken windows are that money? How insecurity did the NOVARTIS scandal create? How many broken windows are worth billions of health scandals? How insecurity and how many windows correspond to air loans to the media and to themselves, PASOK and New Democracy? If you put all this together, it's like all the windows in the country ten times. It sounded like a great clash was heard and it really happened, so the country went bankrupt and led us to enormous insecurity. This is insecurity, unemployment, poverty and immigration. For the Prespes. And there is nothing you can say, gentlemen of the New Democracy, because, firstly, you admit that you will do nothing to change it, especially because you agree with the New Democracy and the PASOK with the "North Macedonia". After all, you are the ones who have drawn up the national line for 'North Macedonia'. You were simply saying so as not to disturb the voters' ears, 'a complex name with geographical identification'. You did not say that we were going to "North Macedonia", you said "yes, we accept a complex name with geographical definition", that is, "North Macedonia"! You accept it. Finally, about the middle-class, to get together, we're talking about the middle-class, which you've plucked them the income you've thrown out of the hospitals, while they've paid thirty-five years of contributions, and were six or twelve months unpaid, and people say, "I've paid a life and I can't go to hospital"? For chasing them like the worst criminals, because they didn't pay their own contributions and take them to the lighthouse? You have persecuted the middle class, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, as you have prosecuted all over the country. But the world is not only afraid of what you have done, but also of what you believe and you promise of the future, and Mr Mitsotakis says so with honesty other times. Sometimes he loses a few more, seven days' work, abolition of allowances. The thirteenth pension you do not trust it, the reduction of pensions in early 19s had incorporated it into your programme, you would like one to five etc. Of course you have the houi - to say it - that you are reminiscent of the scary three-year period 2012-2015. You say that 'you arrived in 2014, where we were,' on the occasion of the reduction in VAT. But you were there with 28% unemployment, with 25% reduction in GDP, which cannot be achieved at war, with 12% reduction in pensions and wages, with redundancies, with HNPH being inside the electricity account, so if you don't pay him, you will be cut off. You were sleeping with work and waking up unemployed. But let the world know that Mitsotakis is Samaras. That's where you want to turn us. And all this shows that with what you have done in the past, and you promise of the future, the world has ended up fearing Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy. Instead, he appreciates Alexis Tsipras and us, SYRIZA and the Progressive Alliance, which we support for the effort that is being made. And that's why you may win in the goulops, gentlemen of the New Democracy, but we, Alexis Tsipras and SYRIZA, will win the polls that are coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u233	The Minister for the Interior has the floor, Mr. Haritsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this very critical bill, which has waited for hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens in recent years and which our Government brings to the vote, a very important regulation of the Interior Ministry is also included. A rule concerning the possibility of debts being repaid favourably to TAs at a level to the municipalities throughout the country, debts arising from fees, taxes, rights, contributions, as well as the surcharges, interest and fines of these debts. This regulation concerns both private individuals, citizens and businesses. It is therefore very important, in our view, that this possibility is given to citizens and businesses to regulate their debts, to make better economic planning for the future, and so we can say that this regulation has a very important development dimension. I would remind you of what we also told the committee last week that, according to the latest cross-checked data available to our Ministry, the confirmed debts to the municipalities amount to around EUR 2.7 billion. If we take into account the debts owed to legal persons from the municipalities, since this regulation concerns not only municipalities, but also their legal persons, in particular the JHA, which have also accumulated significant debts over the years of the crisis, the total amount that can be regulated exceeds EUR 3 billion. So, on the one hand, this regulation enables the citizens, the natural and legal persons, to make good their debts, but on the other hand, it greatly increases the collection of the municipalities themselves, the self-government bodies themselves. I think it is very important, especially at this juncture and since this arrangement has four months since the adoption of this bill, that the new self-government authorities, which will be resulting from the elections of 26 May and take up duties as of 1 September 2019, will be able to start their term of office to enter the process of recovering these debts. Therefore, if you wish, and an important reserve for the municipalities, is also created, so that they will then be able to formulate their policy on much better economic terms for the next four years. A similar arrangement had been adopted - I would remind you - on a proposal from our Ministry in 2017. I refer to No 4483/2017. At that time, when there was a specific period of time again, many debtors had not been able to join this arrangement. As we have the opportunity, and this provision will begin to become effective in the next few years, I call on the municipalities to take the necessary publicity actions so that all debtors, natural and legal persons, can join in this regulation, that is to say, subject to a favourable provision which will solve many of their financial problems. As you will have seen in the text of the provision, the arrangement also applies to the discharge of any kind of surcharge. There is a detailed table at which the debtors are exempted according to the repayment scheme they will choose. In our opinion, this is also very important, as it is very important that these provisions should also regulate matters of enforcement and enforcement measures that have already been launched at the expense of debtors. In particular, the municipality shall order the competent DUE to withdraw the tax information obligation if the debtor is subject to this arrangement. This is very important. It specifically liberates legal persons from'sins', from past burdens and enables them to continue their economic activity without carrying these problems. You will allow me to close with a comment. This bill is not a lightning inhabitation, but it is the result of a comprehensive strategy followed by our Government in recent months, since August 2018 and the exit from the memoranda, with a series of announcements, which have become specific legislative interventions, which have been passed by parliament and have become state laws in recent months. I am thinking in total of the programme, which was unfolded at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition by the Prime Minister in September 2018. Similarly, this regulation, which we are presenting today in plenary, is not a lightning lightning. It is another 'little' in our great effort to strengthen local government. As we are only a few days before the self-government elections of 26 May, I think it is very important for all citizens throughout Greece to know about this effort, which has been under way in the last four years to support the Government, which has taken many different features in the funding, with the support of the last two years of the Central Independents for the first time since the crisis, with significant support, given the problems arising from the very large, the drastic reduction of Central Independents for the bodies of government in the first years of the crisis, with the new funding programmes, which are currently under way by the Ministry of Interior - I am referring to the 'PHILODIMOS' programmes - to strengthen the municipalities throughout the country, for the implementation of local infrastructure projects that have not been implemented all over the previous period, but of course also for the issues that we have had the opportunity to stand up against the forces of counter-population. I see Mr. Voridis, who has just entered the Chamber. We had discussed them in the Interior Ministry bill a while ago. I am referring to the issue of recruitment to municipalities and regions throughout the country. We will insist on this strategy. We believe that growth cannot be achieved without substantial decentralisation of productive activity, that growth cannot be achieved without self-government and self-government, without scientific, technical, workers who will meet the basic needs of self-government in reciprocity services, technical services, economic and legal services. So we will continue in this direction in the next few years, and of course we will continue to face the injustices that have accumulated in previous years towards the workers in local government. I recall our government's initiatives for school guards and municipal policemen, who are coming to respond to the destruction of these sectors that occurred in previous years, and especially in the service of today's Chief of Police in 2014 to the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction. So we continue in the next few days with new measures, which the Prime Minister will announce for other categories of workers in local government, such as school cleaners, we will continue with the 'Help at Home' notice, and we will continue with the workers in children's creative employment centres. There are a number of initiatives under way, initiatives that strengthen workers, strengthen the role of self-government and shield the development potential of selfgovernment and hence the Greek economy as a whole. With this plan, and with this determination, we will continue step by step, and I am sure that the Greek people will appreciate this effort, and will respond to the call for the self-government forces, which are part of this project and for those forces to be rejected, and for selfgovernment, who are against the effort to strengthen selfgovernment, because we believe that only through selfgovernment can the benefits of the development orbit, in which the Greek economy has now entered for good, enjoy them not few, but all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u235	Mr Kyriazidis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall make a partial statement. In 2014, our fellow citizens owed the public 85 billion. Today, after four years, they owe 140 billion, 36 billion debts to the insurance funds and more than 104 billion owe tax. Every month of your governance burdened the government by about 1 billion, with a total of 55 billion. And you, as a government, are due to our fellow citizens over 2.3 billion and more than two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners are waiting for more than three years for their retirement. You asked how they all survive? However, you, Minister, Mr Petropoulou, have made six public commitments on specific dates that there will be no unfinished pensions from now on and, of course, not only did you not do so by smuggling pensioners, but you have even altered the register of outstanding pensions. You also cut 1 billion euros from the EKRF, which concerned low-pensions. You also imposed on the main health pensions 2% and the supplementary 6%, that is to say, an annual 'vaccination' of 750 million and you are now coming on 23 May, before the polls, to provide you with a 'indigenous' 'bait' for their vote, i.e. an overall amount as well as the 'vaccination' that I mentioned above. There is a proverb for Hodja, who forcedly put animals in the stable and removed some in order to satisfy the overload inside the stable. But there is also a polar proverb that says: "In the evening you went with the wolf and ate the sheep and in the morning go with the spoon and cry." That's exactly what happened with you. And because this is the time, when it comes to Pontian Hellenism, we have waited for you, at least for the hundreds of years of genocide, to be in Parliament for three days, so that all of this can be mentioned, called for the embassies of the countries, so that another dimension can be given. You are only confined to the next Monday - I fear you will also have a bill - so that you can alter - if you want - and the spirit of this great - for us - an anniversary. What have you done for the two and a half years of our country's governance? You created the movement "I don't pay" and you posted everywhere: "We don't pay anything until they collapse. We will win." It's yours, SYRIZA. I'll tell you to see it. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What, then, did you say to our fellow citizens? "Don't pay", "we'll give you the loans", with that famous earthquake. With a law and an article you would abolish what was legislated for us and in my ears your insults and threats are still ringing. In 2014 in the country there was a balance at the level of operation, beyond the economy. You, by stealing hope, on our back, based, instead of removing everything that has been announcing - as you have said - were voted on, counted on all this and, to keep it in power, allied with the devils you were saying. You proceeded with overtaxing the middle class and in extermination contributions, with twenty-seven new laws and seventeen reductions and increases in contributions to the insurance system. So, in the middle class you make it poor, zetula and beggar, with a stretched hand begging for an allowance, for a pile, for a coupon, i.e. a system of totalitarian status, a society that is inappropriate and powerless to resist the nomenocaust of the system, whose leader finds refuge in a sallet and seaman of the present elites. You pledged the country to pledge the public property for ninety years, committing even EUR 5.5 billion in order to pledge them to a special account of the redeemed lenders, thereby subscribing and making it difficult, as you do on many other issues, to the next New Democracy government. Of course, what should one be minded of your painful passage? You have built a private - state-run system, i.e. a business to make 100 euros and take it away from 80 euros. You, Mr. Petropole, went outside the shopkeepers and businesses, and you heard them say, "Put more taxes." Mrs Fotou said something similar before. As far as what you are bringing today to a hundred and twenty instalments, you did not vote for what we brought in 2013. In 2015 you brought the 100 doses, with four modifications. Unfortunately, you didn't work. Of the one million four hundred thousand debtors only eight thousand were able to respond to this arrangement. Now the hundred and twenty instalments are coming and from our rapporteur you ask: 'There will be another one?' As far as this is concerned, unfortunately, the results will still be the same. As far as VAT reduction is concerned, these were voted out of your mind. In fact, he's coming from you now ragged, cowardly. That is why this amendment is coming for us and we expect you to vote for it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] In relation to duty-free, Mr Chakalotos said: "I'll take it to 12%." Of course, you voted against it, when we said about EUR 9 000 and now you did it at EUR 6 000, half, and you are also pleased. I'm glad, Mr. Barca, for your results. You also tried to control the media and justice. We have also seen the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, Ms. Demetriou, who, instead of strengthening the judiciary's mind with these decisions, instead of coming and somehow creating a matter. So you have tried in every way to satisfy all your components, to take out all your retreats and to legislate yet all your idealism and belief. You have created a climate of insecurity throughout the country, giving asylum to illegality and with the Law of Friday, you have also proceeded with impunity. Unfortunately, this is the harsh reality. Your only offer to Greek society over the last four years is to know what left means. And that's not what people are forgetting about, like we used to say. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u237	The next speaker, Mr Michalis, from SYRIZA, has the floor. Mr Katsis, Mr Sarakiotis, Mr Meikopoulou, will follow and then follow. Here you go, Mr. Michalis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because today many New Democracy MPs gave us characterizations and many secular surnames, but they also taught us Marxism and antiquity lessons, I will add this: Socrates, when commenting on political events, said: "Intelligents explore the causes of the events. Ability to describe the facts correctly. Incompetent and weak arguments shall be held on persons and on designations.’; A lot of coincidence with today's data is completely random. I shall therefore turn to the great picture, because SYRIZA's individual colleagues have described it. Walking from old to 2010, what exactly happened? De-industrialisation, the great fuss - I suppose Bertoluchi was inspired by us too for his film - the well-known Stock Exchange, 15% deficit, large lending, the stage of bankruptcy. In 2010 to 2015 - two memos with signature - we borrow 110 billion plus 80 billion, equal to EUR 190 billion, with revenue measures of more than EUR 60 billion and benefits, from 2010 to 2015 minimum. That is why no Member of the New Democracy refers to them today. Cash reserves had less than half a billion euros. But Mr Samaras, following Mr. Frouzi's suggestion, has ensured that his relevant Minister is given a full payment of NOVARTIS at the end of 2014, does not remain unpaid. They owed other pharmaceutical companies too. From 2015 until now - approximately a period of time - we had: a memorandum of EUR 86 billion, less EUR 20 billion not attributed to banks, i.e. EUR 66 billion, collective measures - accepted for the purposes of the New Democracy - EUR 12 billion, completion of the memorandum and exit from our obligations and State reserves EUR 31 billion. Positive measures: A parallel programme within a memorandum. They have the right to medical and medical care over two million fellow citizens. You, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population, I mean right-wing, may think that of negligible and secondary importance. But it's not like that. Measuring after August? They've been reported in detail. Today's day? You can see them. You need to vote on them, even if your group with top officials - at least as they do on television and say - is not certain what line it will take. One says 'to see', the other says 'if we have growth, perhaps', the third says 'not development', the fourth does not know what it says. Today the New Democracy has an agenda? It suggests a 12-hour and an extension of seven days' work everywhere. We are not talking about seven days' work on production sites, where it is necessarily working. I was chatting it with a fellow citizen in Lamia and he says: "But is it possible for the Lamia milk factory not to work for seven days?" I agreed with him, and I told him that the sheep guard also works for seven days. He's not hitting a card and he's leaving. That's objective. Is it possible the police won't work for seven days? The army? The hospitals? Oh, no. Why are you talking here and bringing the example of large industries? You are discussing the extension of seven-day work to all areas of work, so that the very large supermarkets and the sizes of the economy can be compared with the small-scale production of family property, even with one or two workers. It'll crush them. It's a stage in the development of capitalism. It's been written for a hundred years. It is therefore the policy of extreme neoliberalism, the policy of the Friedman doctrine headed by Mr Weber, who condemns the measures throughout the European Union. There I don't know how you're gonna get out of this, if you're gonna vote now, and if you're gonna call them back. What is conflicting today in Europe? Two political lines. The full prevalence of neoliberalism, the Friedman model, as I said before, and the resistance to it, with the rebuilding of the social state that collapsed and insisted on wanting to collapse it. These two different political lines also have the respective political bodies. On the one hand, the right, under the guidance of the far right in our country and in Europe, on the other hand, the left, social democracy and other countries, other than Greece, and the Communist Left, on the other hand, on the attempt to build a front. It's a tough project, a tough battle. I conclude with a proposal to the Ministry of Labour. Ladies and gentlemen, the worker, when applying for retirement, is waiting for a time to retire. Soon, however, after the application, it will receive 50% of the possible pension. I propose that this 50% be made 60%, 70%, 80%, in so far as the services of the Ministry of Labour can control it and implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u239	Next speaker, Mr Katsis, from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Katsy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are pleased to discuss another package of very positive measures and interventions, a mixture of relief and developmental impetus, so that the exit from the memoranda can be seen in the daily lives of all our fellow citizens. In fact, a million and a half thousand of our fellow citizens with debts in insurance funds, tax funds and municipalities regulate their debts by haircuts, and two and a half million of our fellow citizens will receive the thirteenth pension. All Greeks, on the other hand, will see lower VAT at 13% in focus, food and energy. We, when we say it's time for the many, we mean it and it's not a motto of empty content. Thank you to Mr Mitsotakis, who does not miss a chance to represent the elites, our differences are made more clearly and more than every vote in the call is borne by a classic interest. Because the whole Hellenio heard Mr.Mitsotakis publishing the seven - day work. To say racistly that women can only work from home and that someone who wants to be a cooler can only be from the Dove. So a triple knot in favour of the few, in favour of discrimination, based on sex and social order. Today he said another dreadful one on his radio "SCAI". He said, for example, to the Thesprots "negatively you buy a magnetic scanner and a CT scanner, as the SYRIZA Government did and you will be able to get free access to the hospital and the Emergency Department." We have to rent them from a private company and work them out by civil servants. We really live voices. The more you try, however, to collect all this after the giant reactions, the worse you do, and no senior New Democracy official gets out to defend these, exposing the leading team of the New Democracy. The truth is one, ladies and gentlemen. After the tours of Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, Greece, with the last of Epirus, where there was spontaneous popular support, with a pulse from the world, you have panicked. And your panic sends you mistakes. The images speak for themselves. And they can't hide the media that support you. Let me just say it: While Alexis Tsipras takes two selfies per step in whatever city he goes, Mr. Mitsotakis makes two gaffes per interview. Because we in our policy give people hope that things are going better and better, and you promise to return to the IMF's policies, which the Greek people have done with pain and pain. So, after vetoed interventions, such as the announcements of last year's Thessaloniki International Report, which have all been implemented, such as the increase in the minimum wage, the abolition of the subordinate, the housing allowance, the reduction of HNPH and so on, we are going to discuss today's bill. What does it involve? Mr. Petropoulos had come in 2016 in Thesprotia, Parathymia. We had an event. What was then discussed by the institutions, from all over the world at an open event, has all been implemented. Minister, I did not expect it to happen within four years. They were demands involving chronic pathogens and many problems of decades. We bring about a hundred and twenty-dollar adjustment for debts to insurance funds, while deleting increments and haircuts to the basic debt. What does that mean, practically? A fellow citizen, who was a freelance professional and owes the former OAU, can now adjust it in a hundred and twenty instalments, delete any increments, while in the balance sheet of the original debt he can make, he has the opportunity to hairen the original capital he owed with a reduction of 65%. Eighty thousand of our incarcerated fellow citizens, who, although they have reached retirement age, could not get their pension due to debts, will now be able to put their debt below 20,000, which is the limit of the debt to be retired. And since we are from an agricultural prefecture, I would like to say what we are voting on for all those who have debts to the former OGA. For these people, therefore, there is a 100% deletion of the surcharges, a hundred and twenty instalments with a minimum of 30 euros a month and a debt threshold, to get the pension, is up from four to six grand. Also, the hundred and twenty instalments of debts to our citizens in municipalities from municipal charges, debts on the water bill, can now be adjusted. With regard to widow's pensions, this draft law fulfils all the requests of the beneficiaries of widow's pensions. The percentage that the widow receives from the pension of the deceased rises from 50% to 70%, while age restrictions are abolished. These are measures which restore social justice and further. Let me remind you that under the Katorugalou law insurance contributions, Mr Kyriazides, have been reduced for the vast majority of farmers, while 87% of the free professionals from 1-1-2017 pay less than the previous system with the classes. In the New Republic you dream of giving the insurance system to individuals, with a dictator dictator of a dictator Pinochet. The logic is simple: voluntary voluntary contribution to main and subsidiary insurance, so that, if you want, you can go to private multinationals. You've set out what seems to be customers in multinationals and individuals. What if that happens? The having and those who are comfortable financially will go to the private insurance companies and the funds that EKKA will lose millions of revenue. Result? Today's pensions are falling apart, the state reinstates and comes to cover the black hole through the IMF. The work of the Ministry of Labour's studies say that this hole will amount to 55 billion. So here's why not only are you with the elites, but you're also dangerous to the social majority. What did we do? The reform of the ECA, which is surplus. With this surplus not only reductions in pensions, but - as you would have liked, of course, you had planned it, you had it well in your programme - six hundred twenty thousand low pensioners from 1-1-2019 saw a slight increase, from 20 euros to over. And now we are establishing the thirteenth pension for all those pensioners as a permanent measure and not as an election allowance, as you say. With regard to the arrangements set out in the Labour Law, which is a crown of our policy, for the first time we are establishing the justification for redundancies, providing workers with an extra protection net. It is also possible for the worker to be able to enter the information system "ERGAN" for the first time in order to identify how the employer has declared him, to check the transparency of the statement, to proceed to a complaint if it finds infringement. Finally, we are bringing arrangements in favour of the dealers, as they are said, of a group of highly exploited workers by employers and with many matches for their industry. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm closing. The time has come for our fellow citizens to understand that the country is walking on other paths. By honouring the confidence they have shown us and having this alone on our side, we have moved through a difficult route, but in the end we have been vindicated. SYRIZA, the party of the many, the weakest, the social state, the industrial relations, the middle class, the healthy entrepreneurship and not the parasitics of the major progressive divisions, is entitled to another four years and the people in mind and I hope they will give it back to us, because he did not regret his choice in 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u241	Mr Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the vote on this bill, the implementation of a fourth memorandum in New Democracy takes a step. The hundred and twenty instalments with capital cuts and surcharges to insurance funds, the reduction of VAT on focusing, on food, on energy, the thirteenth pension is our memorandum with society. The fourth memorandum will be experienced by the pensioners, going to ATMs next week, with the income breath offered to them, no matter what you want to call it. Thousands of fellow citizens will experience it with their decapitation from the vicious cycle of continuous debt creation, through the haircut of capital and interest - debts that have drowned them for many years. They are the same people who experienced the policies of the parties responsible for the bankruptcy of our country in 2010-2014, with the degrading of wages and pensions, thousands of workers redundancies, flexible forms of work. Today, the same people promise and even worse: the abolition of the eighth, seven days' work, the abolition of the Christmas gift in the private sector. Not half the job, since they had cut it down a few years ago in the public sector. In the face of this proposal - launching a new cycle of destruction, the government is confronting and implementing a program to rectify the country and heal the wounds of the Memorandum Years. In this context, this draft law, which includes among other positive provisions and the emblematic regulation of an hundred and twenty doses, is also part of this draft law. What hundred and twenty doses, though? Those who have supported until a few days ago that the institutions will not accept, as they would not have accepted, and that the pension cut measure should not be applied, as the assessments would not be closed, and that in future they will not accept taking advantage of the tax reduction measure. Mr Mitsotakis called for an agonizing preventive support line in order to make the country commit again, believing that it is the only appropriate solution against the cash buffer and bet that we will not get out of the memoranda. At the same time, it was certain that we would not achieve the primary surpluses that your governments had committed to. This time, however, it has been denied by the positive course of all the indicators of the Greek economy. In fact, he also prepared your election programme, given that pensions will be cut, when not only that was prevented, but today the New Democracy and PASOK third pension is also given, despite the fact that the country's budgets, as he claimed, do not last days. And your Vice-President, who, as we learn, does not take part in your meetings, takes it a step further, stating that the New Democracy cannot guarantee the income of pensioners. Mr. Mitsotakis risked that the economy and business could not withstand the increase in the minimum wage. The government dared, achieved it, and unemployment continued its downward course, reaching 18% in February, from 28% in your hand. The Chief of Officerial Response was sure that the country would fail on the markets. The exit was successfully carried out and the yields of the Greek bond recorded a historical record. Kyriakos Mitsotakis believed that the rental subsidy and the regulation of red housing loans would shake the banking system. The bet from New Democracy continues persistently in favour of destruction and lenders. Old love, however, is hard to forget. After all, your Vice-President had said that, if there was no memorandum, we should invent it. Well, now that there is no, you invent it, just as you promised the Greek people. In addition, anti-social measures are the only area in which you are absolutely consistent, because otherwise you only express wishing for the country's failure, with the reality of denying you misguidedly. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another denial of the New Democracy's provisions. Through this, hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens are reinstated in the economy, who were faced during the crisis with super-government debts, consistent fellow citizens, who want to continue to fulfil their obligations properly, but reality itself did not allow them to do so, with 96% of them having reached this terrible situation for the first time until 2014. In this healthy part of the Greek society, the government is inclined to help, while targeting the so-called'strategic malicious payers'. I welcomed the regulation of the hundred and twenty instalments as a flagrant one, and I would like to close my speech with it, because it really will change the life and the future of thousands of families, because by voting they will see the debt that has been carried on their backs for many years, they will automatically decrease from EUR 35,000-40,000 to EUR 20,000 - half, or even more - while the balance will be adjusted for a decade. Today’s government for the first time enables these families to plan their actions, plan for the future, dream. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u243	Mr. Mikopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr Vorides, who entered the place of Mr Theocharis, will be followed by a mutual change between them - and Mr Tassoulas. With these three speakers we will reach about four o'clock at noon. I would like to inform you that, after consultation, the parliamentary delegations will also start from four to the next. So we shall proceed with the rule - let me say '1-4', a parliamentary representative and four speakers - until the number of Members is exhausted, of course. At the same time, an emblem will also be placed by those ministers who ask for the floor, such as Mr Petropoulos. Here, Mr. Meikopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, repeating is certainly the mother of learning. I will, however, choose to make a wider position and not to list all the positive initiatives that have arisen since the last period, and I think that both the Ministers and my fellow Members of the Com mittee have analysed very clearly and adequately. I shall therefore choose to make a wider position, as I consider that political developments must be examined under the framework in which they are happening. I shall begin with two comments, ladies and gentlemen. Observation first: I think that the historic area of the Central Right and of the seriousness, I would say, a party of the New Democracy, is not honoured by its shallow approach to the government's latest positive initiatives, as I appreciate that the world at the end will not judge gossip and yellowism, but will judge the programmes, judge the plans and the events. I think that New Democracy has an opportunity with the agreement since August 2018 and with the financial margins resulting from it, to submit its programme, as we can now move without the suffering of the memorandum. The second point concerns the following: There is a central question: why now are these positive initiatives? If we embrace the argument of the New Democracy, then Mr. Tsipras was frightened by the fact that he was raised for his vacation, if he is on a boat, he scared out of all this dust that got up, woke up the next day, opened a chest, found 5.5 billion euros, created a guarantee fund, found another 1.5 billion euros, took down VAT, stopped pension cuts, gave a third pension. But in the light of European and economic reality, the answer to 'Why now' is otherwise explained. Two are the reasons and I think that the serious colleagues from New Democracy understand that. The first reason is the positive European context. There is a positive Community, there are progressive forces throughout Europe, which are aware of their mistake of coexisting in previous years with reasonable neoliberals and, on the other hand, there is the reality of the positive figures recorded by the Greek economy. So, by exploiting both the debt regulation and the positive figures recorded by the Greek economy, together with a favourable European reality, we have created budgetary margins so that we can take very specific measures, and that will enable us to make a very concrete planning for the next three years if our world chooses. The correct planning, therefore, of the proper planning and exploitation of all positive circumstances gave as a product these last positive initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe, however, that, behind these fireworks and the naive, in my opinion, approaches are hiding the real, the deepest political problem facing the Civic Opposition. I would like to believe that those views which I am just going to put forward are not of major importance. The real problem, then, is in the Civic Opposition which says that if we find ourselves in the state of the government, then we must take administrative and institutional measures so that problematic ideologies cannot be taken again by government perpetrators. It is problematic that a political area should think that two and a half million uninsured must have uncertain and free access to the area of health. That is the real problem, in my opinion, of the New Democracy. Also, the dust that has risen has hidden something else: the key to the next three years, which I think is the creation of this Guarantee Fund, to which EUR 5.5 billion has been deposited. So the government - which comes up in a few months' time - will be able to plan for the next three years an economic policy with 2.5% surpluses, not 3.5%. That is the actual challenge for the next period. So, ladies and gentlemen, all the positive measures - that is, the abolition of pension cuts, the housing allowance, the drop in VAT on the focus, the drop in VAT on energy - have an explanation and a common denominator: people can be relieved on the one hand and, on the other, the wrongs can now be taken back over time, nine years of crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from an area, Magnesia, and a city, Volos, which, in its vast majority, consists of traders, entrepreneurs, free traders. The truth is, he was beaten unrelentingly in the years of the crisis. And we - I'm making my self-criticism - have made choices making this situation worse. However, we show that any margin exists and we create it, we are taking advantage of it in favour of these people and we are now legislating to create a completely different reality. Here we are, here we will be, slowly - slowly the memorial sweater gradually unfolds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u245	Thank you. Mr Vorides from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the reference made by the previous colleague to me to say this: First of all, it seems to me perfectly normal for a man on the right to think that the ideas of the Left are wrong, because if he thought that they were right, he would be left. So we should go a little bit on the field. And don't be shocked about this. For all of a sudden, a concept has been formulated that if anyone tells you that you are wrong, he has made a terrible statement of deposition, to which you must be blamed. Left ideas are wrong. What can we do? They're balancing, they're ethnicly native, they're ideas of prisoners, they're ideas of freedom. What can we do? There's, you know, that point of view in the world. Now, what you must try to do is answer this argument not unreasonable, dialectically, if you want to continue coming from Enlightenment and not go to a new type of theocracy that merely deems other ideas. But let's go to the issue now. What is the case today? Since you're doing so well there in SYRIZA and so on, why do you need to distort your highest art? Heavy labor and anguish in distortion. Thirteenth pension. Isn't that right? Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, did you not say that was the thirteenth pension? How much is the thirteenth pension? The thirteenth is worth 2.3 billion. How much money do you give with what you give today? You give 830 million, one/3. Can you explain to me how this is retired? I want you to explain it to me, Mr. Petropoulou. Explain this magic. I say to you - perhaps you like legal - that, since you insist on saying this pension, the fact that you create rates that you pay for pensions will also give rise to legal matters. I don't have to advise you. Isn't that right? I don't have that obligation, but I've done it two or three times, without being disproved. You don't just listen. So I'm telling you, he's going to give birth to such things. I'll come to the next item. 'We remove VAT on the focus.' Congratulations. I mean, if you took him down, congratulations. So, what congratulations? Congratulations for taking him down, we'd be back where we were five years ago. Congratulations for losing five years because of you! But you don't even abolish him. "We remove VAT on the focus but not on the basics that create consumption in the focus, i.e. drinks, coffee and juices." Question now: Do you remove VAT on the focus, yes or no? Why do you not go along with our amendment if you repeal it? But that distortion is not enough for you. That's not good enough. You say, "Look at it now. We have left the Memorandum and after we have left the Memorandum, we are given this opportunity." I'm sorry, let me get this straight: does the Memorandum not anticipate the surpluses? Yes, sir. Does the Memorandum provide for how the excess is distributed? Yes, sir. Don't you come and say that's what we can and do because it's part of the overcrowd? Yes, sir. In other words, respect the Memorandum's requirements and otherwise you have abolished the Memorandum. You celebrate overcrowding. Let the Economic Ministers and colleagues of SYRIZA tell us here: overcrowding is a success? Let's talk straight. Is overcrowding a successful economic policy? Isn't it a failure? Is it not a product of mistaken assessment and overtaxation and cracking? Can I suggest you something? The surplus not to be limited to 3%. Get the good to go to 6%, 7%, put more taxes on them all, get nothing left to make a surplus of 6%, 7%, and then have to share. Is that your economic policy? Apparently, yes. Note: The art of distortion does not stop at it, because it is not enough to distort what you do. It's not enough, because you're still unconvincing about it. There's nothing wrong again. We now need to distort what we say. So twist and lie about what you do and at the same time twist and lie about what we say. Let Mitsotakis say, "For example, Papastratos," say Mitsotakis "Example of work", which Tsipras has visited and you signed the contract and you said, "You said about seven days of work."
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u247	And that's all? A bunch of them said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u248	And that's all? Well, of course, that's for seven days' work. And note: I now hear what he says supposedly - once again I heard it from my colleague - 'The two and a half million insurers that you secured them', and that our language has haired, that we bring the ministerial decisions of Georgia and my own, a hundred times, to say that this had been covered. And all you've done is you've put illegal immigrants in the public system. Nothing else you have done with your decision and your law. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] But nothing else! But what should we do? Take the legislative texts and bring them together to compare them. What can we do? Nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u249	No dialogue. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u250	Watch out, and the distortion continues and continues. Let the Vice-President of the New Democracy say yesterday, "Look, we do not contribute to this pension, as you say, because it is not a pension, but we will ensure and increase the income of the low pensioners", Translation: He said we do not guarantee the thirteenth pension. What thirteenth pension can we guarantee? There's no such thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u251	He didn't commit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u252	There's something like that in your rhetoric.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u253	Finish, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u254	And I'm ending up saying this amazing. Look at a coincidence that all these terrible and amazing measures take ten days before the elections. Colleagues, don't you dare tell them they're connected to the forthcoming election. Sin! We're wronging colleagues! The people know, the people wait four years on that nice day they come. On May 26, you will get your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u255	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the Samos High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Tassoulus from New Democracy will be given the floor, and the Parliamentary Representative from Potami, Mr Mavrotas, will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, we need to understand something very essential and we need to face the crisis from which we are struggling to get out nine years now, like something we have all contributed to. If we are honest, we will admit that the problem of the country is not due to exogenous factors, nor to some international conspiracy and to the parties that were ruling, what you are saying today is 'the old political system', which, however, the people with knowledge and crisis, as the Prime Minister says - and curiously with this is what I agree with the Prime Minister - has voted poorly for many years at far more overwhelming rates than they are voting for you and with far more pleasure than they are voting for you. The people have a crisis and knowledge when they vote SYRIZA, while when they vote for the other parties for forty years, is it inaccurate and irrelevant? Apparently not. Something else is going on. If, then, we are honest, we must admit that we, who were ruling Greece, have been nationals of populism and SYRIZA, a party that has been delighting for decades at 3%, has been a signifier of populism. And with that and that one we went to bankruptcy. When the late Mitsotakis said that we lived above our powers, 80% of the civilian staff blamed him and 20%, which in his thinking he agreed, he did not dare to support him. This was the country until the bankruptcy. And if we took the country to bankruptcy at a rate of weight, you would call "no weight, no wheel" because what we gave above the powers of the economy, you said they were crumbs. Why is it so difficult to admit that we all have responsibilities, as much as we are, whether we have ruled or have not governed the country? [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Georgios VARIVEOS is occupied by the Presidential Chair.]] What is it that gives you so much power in not accepting to be responsible? How can you not stand to blame? How does the elementary sense of egoism raise this, the elementary sense of understanding of reality? What am I saying this, though? You are talking about the thirteenth pension and you have tabled an amendment. Listen to something. And I will say it once, because, Mr. Colleague, the repetition may be mother of learning, but because the Prime Minister told us from Epirus that his ideology is more appropriate to Christianity, I will invoke texts of Christianity, which the first-born Paul says to Titus that "a free man after a second admonition." I'll say it once, not even two. Be careful, then. You say it's a pension. And, of course, symbols and words that are symbolic play a role in politics. And it is a welcome phrase:'retirement', especially when it has been reduced 17 times over your days. It says, therefore, that the Constitution in Article 73(2): 'Laws relating in any case to the award of pensions and the conditions of employment are submitted by the Ministry of Finance only after an opinion of the Court of Auditors'. And it also says in Article 98(1) (d) of the Constitution, "The Court of Auditors has jurisdiction to give its opinion on draft pension bills". The main body of the bill you deposited is entitled ‘Consolidation of debts to the public sector, pension arrangements’. And since the main body has pension arrangements for these pension arrangements referred to in Article 19 and Article 32, namely widow’s pensions and Article 32, for the benefit of certain postgraduate years, there is an opinion from the Court of Auditors incorporated into the bill. Whilst the amendment which you are talking about is supposed to be the third pension, and there should be an opinion from the Court of Auditors there, you do not have an opinion from the Court of Auditors because you would be sent by the Secretary-General of State and the Court of Auditors back to this amendment, saying that this is not a pension. "But, rapporteur, Mr. Speaker, of the New Democracy, shall we play with words?" No, we don't play with words. We play with symbols, we play with intelligence, we play with how you underestimate the Greek people and you want to demolish its vote and you are excellent civics and counterfeiters. Cervists and paraphrases with words sympathetic. And because you can't handle what you're doing in practice, you call with sympathetic words an election allowance. Do you know that you gave a third pension in December of '16, saying he's going to be in the penitentiary and not repeated? What happened to the thirteenth pension? How many times will you give this rhyme the thirteenth pension? You gave it in December of '16, then they were pre-school allowances, now you say that it is a full pension, while it is a electoral provision, welcome to the winter world, but it is not what you are saying. And you continue all that psalmology. Watch out now. Another reason why it is not a pension, in addition to a lack of consultation of the Court of Auditors, is that the sums you give are related to percentages of paid pensions, whereas pensions relate to contributions and years of work. The distribution you're doing is based on a pension variance, but in fact it's a vote costing. You have looked at where, in your opinion, there might be a crowd, you have been there, you have wanted five days before the election to pay an aid, and I repeat welcome it. However, neither mockery nor counterfeiting are welcome. On the contrary, by admitting our mistakes and admitting that we had actually reached the threshold of exit from the crisis, we wonder why, in what we have actually charged the Greek people, the price of exiting the crisis had to be added to your price.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u257	Please, Mr. Tsouula, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u258	That is why we have tabled two amendments before you today. One is to reduce VAT everywhere and not partly, and the other is to prevent the further reduction of duty, which will result from 1-1-2020, a huge blow to the low-pension workers, those who are supposedly trying to do well in the face of the European elections. If you wish, then, to show sympathy and philosophical person, do not falsify words, vote for the New Democracy amendments and we are with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u259	Mr Mavrotas, Parliamentary Representative of the River, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing today the famous bill of 20 instalments, which, if we want to be precise, should be called a bill of up to a hundred and twenty instalments, since the majority of cases do not reach them. We are therefore dealing with a multiplier of eighteen articles, which, apart from the regulation of debts to social security institutions, tax authorities and municipalities, also includes a number of other provisions. With these articles you give a breath to people who have been locked in debt, you give a sustainability to the way they are paid back. In the bill, there are positive provisions, negative provisions, graceful and Rusphetological provisions. It is clear that the government's revulsion to the private initiative is as strict as possible. A characteristic example is the regulation of tax debts, which are only eighteen instalments, and not a hundred and twenty, such as for natural and legal persons of a non-profit nature. And the question remains: Why should there be only eighteen doses for the fingernails and teeth trying to keep them alive and need it more? Let it not be a decade, let it not be a hundred twenty doses, but let it be at least three years, thirty - six doses. The question is whether the eighteen instalments - the ceiling that has entered for businesses is a requirement for the institutions or whether it is your choice. The details referred to in detail by our rapporteur, Mrs Lymperaki. In fact, he made suggestions, as we always do on the river. I shall refer to a few specific things and go to Article 20. Article 20 is the definition of 'clientism', which I imagine will be passed by all parties. So, as a fictitious pension, the time of the doctorate for the members of the board of directors, for university teachers, that is. I must admit that I am intrigued by this provision. I will also be able to frustrate this favorable provision as a member of the IGC, but is it just and correct? I would like to ask you who you had in mind when you suggested it. Evidently, some of you have asked for it. And before I move on to the substance, he's even talking inside about TEI members. Don't you know that there are no more TEIs in Greece, that you've done away with them? And why should this arrangement apply only to ICP members and not to researchers, for example, who have had a prerequisite for the doctorate? And, in general, why not all the public officials who were hired via ASP because of a doctoral title and who exploit it in their work? I am surprised that those present in Jerusalem are aware that most of the IGC members want, and that is very much discussed, to be retired later, that is to say, seventy, and that is something they say out loud. So who are those who need this care if it is not purely customer-to-class? I would also like to ask you how these five years came about. Why isn't it three, which is the official minimum for doctoral? You are here, too, galantus, when it comes to such benefits. I'm afraid if we start this election service fabulous thing, we won't be done with it. Why, would one say reasonable, with the same logic not to be pensionable and the years of the degree for a teacher in school or a teacher in elementary school? Isn't this the prerequisite for appointment and teaching, as stated in the explanatory statement, for the doctorate? In order to be serious, therefore, you are electively opening a cheap door that is difficult to close. You often do that, and I fear you will do it even more while we are approaching the elections. I continue with yesterday's amendments on the reduction of VAT and on the allowance for pensioners who have minced you are baptizing the thirteenth pension, as you do with the baptism of the bill as a hundred and twenty instalments, and they are up to a hundred and twenty instalments. This also concerns a small fraction of the interested parties. To reduce VAT to levels that were before you came to power is indeed a positive measure. In general, the reduction of indirect taxes is a positive measure, because indirect taxes mainly affect the economically weak, regardless of whether you bring it in particular and a little rusted. The allowance to retired people is, however, a measure that we should not see individually. Who wouldn't want his father or his mother to see any more money in the ATM? But when you give something, you're cutting it off somewhere. In a world of limited resources, everything you give from somewhere else is missing. The surpluses that now share from somewhere are missing. The exorbitant taxes that have created them are lacking in investment, in wealth production, in jobs. And because I hear the rhetoric of the government that it considers to have the monopolies of the heart, are pensioners the most beaten by the crisis, or are the young, the unemployed, forced to live with their parents in the children's rooms? Unless you think the pensions will go indirectly to them, so instead of giving them perspectives, you give them pocket money. Are the small and medium-sized businessmen who saw their jobs and their incomes evaporate and lost the land under their feet from one day to the next, or are the private employees who were made redundant and added to the long-term unemployed? In order to have a consistent framework for everyone and not just for the electorally interesting categories, then, we need to weigh the mixture between subsidised and development policy, between now and tomorrow. Not easy solutions that do their job for a short time, at least until the elections and then "the fire is melting". We got sick and found out, I hope. But to do social policy, the country needs to produce wealth, have resources. It cannot only be based on the model of private consumption. And to produce wealth, we need investment, especially in a country that has suffered dramatic deinvestment in recent years of the crisis. Without investment, no production can have any jobs. Instead of an increase of 11.4% in gross fixed capital formation, i.e. in the investment index for 2018, we finally had a dramatic decrease of 12.2%. Instead of +11.4%, we had -12.2% on investments for 2018. This reflects the non-existent public investment programme and the anti-investment climate in the private sector. When the private initiative is drained by taxes and levies to create surpluses, it has no incentive to expand, to invest, because the extra is going to taxes and levies. So creativity either stays vaccinated or migrates. We therefore need investment in market sectors that will increase 8% -9% a year, exports which will increase at a rate of 6% -7% a year to catch a minimum of 3% -3.5% growth. The truth is, the Prime Minister's announcements in Zappeion also had measures for investment and youth at work. Some, in fact, were a copy of the positions of the river, such as subsidising the insurance contributions of young people under twenty-five. But those investment, development, you leave them for later, for 2020, that is when you will not be a government. You have chosen to bring immediate combustion measures before the European elections. If, therefore, we are thinking of the pensioners of 2020, 2025 and 2030, we should be talking about investment, jobs, wealth production. If we only think of pensioners for May 26, 2019, then we can talk about the thirteenth pension. However, the country does not need words and promises, it does not need the polluting polarization that more and more citizens turn its back. The country needs a plan for the future and not a return to the pathogens of the past. He needs uncomfortable truths, not convenient lies. This must be borne in mind by the citizens in going to the European elections, calling for a concrete plan and substance, not thick words and shine and reward those who boldly and consistently remain faithful to what they say and do not define their position depending on where the wind blows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, too, for keeping time, Mr Mavrota. Mr. Antonis Balomemakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u262	Ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago Mr Vorides was at Step and he tried to make us forget how he had described the ideas of the Left. He said he had just labeled them as wrong. If he had described them that way, we wouldn't have had any trouble. We know how to stand up to each other, and we know how to distinguish the good - and so do the Greek people - from evil. He had, however, described them as defective. And I think it's a deep difference between the two characterizations. In one case 'wrong', there is room for democratic debate and confrontation. In the "defectivity", however, when you address the term "defective", it refers to measures of a repressive character to what the Greek people have lived many years before by law 375 for spying, social attitudes, exclusions. So it would be nice to tell the truth and not to overrule it. Whatever we say, let's say it. Unless he's regretted that, of course. It did not show us that, as in the last abstraction he said that those who fruit free hospital treatment are foreigners. It also proves this in itself of some kind of extremity. I would like to mention, in my limited speaking time, the provisions of the fifth chapter on labour. In January 2016 we voted after twenty years the revised European Social Charter. It is now clear that it was a political choice that opened the way in favourable regulations for workers, which includes the draft law we are debating today. What does Article 48 of the draft law, based on Article 24 of the revised European Social Charter? It simply replaces the current system of redundancies for workers to date. Today, redundancies are characterised in legal language as an inappropriate act of justice. This means that the validity of dismissal is not today dependent on whether there will be a great reason or not. The employer, to date, has no legal obligation to invoke serious and concrete reasons for dismissing a worker. The imported provision obliges the undertaking to justify dismissal and even to clarify what constitutes a valid reason. In this way, the door closes to dismissals, such as for example for reasons relating to participation in a strike or invoking claims. Let us note that to date the legislation on redundancies has been in force since 1955. From now on, if there is no good reason, the dismissal will not be considered valid and the employee will have the right to re-employment or even late payment and the burden of proof will be shifted to the employer. The ratification of the revised European Social Charter must be recalled that it was then voted against by two political forces, the Golden Dawn and the JRC. I have raised the Minutes of that debate and it is - I think - useful to refer to the attitude of the parties. The new Republic, by its rapporteur at the time, described the provisions as 'projects on paper'. He did blame the government for not bringing - he says - concrete protection measures and is limited to general clauses. Here are the relevant Minutes and I put them for the sake of the safety. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Antony Balomeni, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But let us now see where the provision is based and specificising Article 24 - if the New Democracy supports it, especially after yesterday's opposition to the Association of the Greek Industries. The JRC in 2016 voted against the draft law on the ratification of the Charter, contrary to the 1984 version of the Introductory Article 1, which listed the working rights protected. The 2016 rapporteur described the provisions of the Charter as purely declaratory, propaganda and hypocritical. We now have a specific provision of domestic law, obviously favourable to workers, such as the one introduced by Article 48 - and I believe that there is no objection - which is precisely based on the European Social Charter. What are you gonna do? Will you continue with generic and extremism to refuse to vote in favour of Rule 47, in a provision which increases the level of protection of workers from arbitrary dismissal? I hope you see the whole thing differently. Prove before all of you to your fans and to all workers that you can see the favorable arrangements for the world of work and be associated with them and that you are not afraid of this kind of positive political realism is considered a retreat from principle. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Although time is running out, I would really like to refer to the next provisions - but other colleagues have said so - which extend rights and guarantee workers' opportunities. Overall we are in a phase of modernising labour legislation - and we should point this out - which was severely affected in the years between 2010 and 2014. Workers will recognise our effort to regain basic working rights, to protect their collective self-determination within the framework of laws. And they will, in fact, reject the New Democracy policy, which attempts to blur water - even in this Chamber, misguided assurances were heard about the famous statements made by the Head of State of New Democracy - a policy that will cause more flexibility and less protection, greater uncertainty, fragmented wages, an insurance system for those who have the means to pay. Workers, especially young workers, recognize the great effort made by the government to rebuild the work with economic and institutional measures. That is why we are optimistic that they will honour us with their preference in the elections, and now also in the great campaign in October, which decides whether our policy to promote work will continue or whether we will return to the regime imposed on our country by the International Monetary Fund and which is applauded by the favorite neoliberal recipes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u265	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. I take the floor on a point of order, because I consider the issue to be very serious. It's very serious. Look, it is the right of the SYRIZA Government to self-determination, but you cannot play with the intelligence of the Greek people and workers. Listen, Mr. President. I have in my hands - and there are two ministers here, the Deputy Minister of Labour and the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Petropoulos and Mrs Papanatsiou, respectively - the amendment tabled by SYRIZA, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour on the issue of setting up working groups to speed up the issue of pensions. So listen. What are you doing? At the time you opened the issue for Mr. Mitsotakis for the seven days - and we proved you from the Step of the House that the seven-day period was first signed by Ahtsoglou in tourism, Mr. Hatzidakis told you about the issue of 'TRAINOSE' - you are coming to the amendment and you are doing the following. You are bringing the seven-day period for officials to the amendment. Read Article 3. There is a seven-day job for the employees. That's who you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u267	This is not a point of order!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u268	They can't happen both. You will either apologise to Mr Mitsotakis for what you have said or withdraw the amendment. This is a hypocrisy! You can't play with the Greeks' intelligence. Do you bring the seven-day amendment to the amendment brought by all the Members, and you denounce Mr Mitsotakis? Now withdraw the amendment! I request that Mrs Papanatsiou be given the floor. You ask for seven days of work for the officials and at the same time blame Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u269	You said that, Mr. Brutsi. Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u270	Either you apologise for what you have said by the workers and Mr Mitsotakis and by the New Democracy, or you will now withdraw the amendment. We're waiting!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. What do the SYRIZA MPs support after each other this step? What does the government support? He says he took the country out of the memorials, packed up the economy, created a financial space, and now it's time for measures in the interests of the many. Isn't that what you say up there? Look, you say measures not close to the needs of the people, but what the financial space allows for this year and when we see, as Mr Tsakalotos said. On the basis of these claims made by the SYRIZA Government, I would like to dwell on three issues. Firstly, in the four years of SYRIZA's governance, all the measures taken by the two previous memoranda and - as you say - voted for the old civilian staff, and not just the measures of the third memorandum that you have all voted on together. We are talking about laws and measures that have cut pensions, reduced wages, reduced labour rights and other rights. You, when you took over the government, did not say that all these measures of the previous two memorandums were ineffective, "we put them aside and only apply the measures of the third memorandum, which we consider to be effective". Used outdated, ineffectively, insanely implemented everything as well. So what you say is that 'we've packed up the economy', we say this barbarity that the people live today, is a result of all the measures of all three Memorandums and not just of your own governance. So you're all responsible. You have all given birth to the people to create just these bloody surpluses. Unless we accept what your SYRIZA Member said yesterday that the others did vote for the first two Memorandums, but they only applied one third of what was predicting them, while you applied them all. Hey, whatever you want you to get. Secondly, what else do you say? You have built a step forward in credibility, 'we have achieved fiscal stability, we have taken the goals and now we are moving on to restoring injustices'. Yes, sir! A large part of these measures concerns capital. It is true to wonder: So many SYRIZA MPs went up to this step, why did no one refer to a large philosophical measure, what increases from 100% to 150% the rate of depreciation of new investments? We are beginning to worry about you not considering this in positive measures too. But let us see what they mean to the people and to the workers what you say are your successes and positive measures for them. The bleeding surpluses of 3.5% mean practically around 7 billion. You, instead of 7 billion, took from the popular layers of EUR 8.14 billion. Instead of 3.5%, you got 4.4%, while you blamed the previous ones for agreeing. You say they had agreed 4.5% on primary haematopoietic surpluses. So that's the 1.14 billion you've taken over, you're sharing it now. So what are you doing? You take more, you turn a place back and tell the people - that is the crucial thing - not to complain and continue to pay the bloody surpluses with the expectation of having no allowance in the coming years. So that the same anti-grassroots, the same tax policy, and in the next few years, continue to catch up to 3.5%. Third question: Let us see what is going on with the hundred and twenty doses. In our view, this is a continuation of your tax policy. You have all charged taxes and raisins, taxation from the first euro, the ENPIA, the trade fee, insurance contributions to 20% of income and a number of other measures. These measures, the credit obligations and the dramatic drop in turnover have led to debts in taxi, insurance funds and municipalities hitting red. These measures keep them intact. So the reasons that created the problem are not undone. They will continue to function and produce all these negative results. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And now what do you think? "Can you not pay the debts we charged you on your back? Here we are to help you do it." And by the lure of facilitation, you'll send everyone they owe. In practice, what happens? Self-employed people in the city and village should pay the unscrupulously current tax burdens because the same policy continues and at the same time pay the instalment of their debts. And for those who fail to do so, the corner is waiting for seizures and auctions even for a debt of EUR 500. Remember the beer - come out of the previous arrangement to the insurance funds. Six out of ten farmers and small professionals self-employed have now been dedicated. Uh, what other proof is needed to see how much - in introductory -'savings' is your new regulation of an hundred and twenty-dollars? Then, will you tell me 'why is the government going on'? With the threat of seizures and auctions you put your hand even deeper in the pocket of hundreds of self-employed people by releasing them for many more years. And those who believe the propaganda of the government that there is a haircut to the insurance funds should be aware that any, which - in introductory terms - 'cut' now will bring about a corresponding reduction and even greater pensions, as provided for by the Katrugalu, will be paid in another way. These are not "black brunettes" tricks. You are dressing up with the fraud of the positive measures exactly the same barbaric anti-grassroots policy to allow this barbaricity to continue unintentionally. You see, without the cultivation of canopies, this barbarity cannot be accomplished. The difference can only be made by demanding substantial relief measures for funds and tax, as provided for in the amendment tabled by the JRC. The difference can only make it a powerful JV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u274	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u275	Can I not read what a poaching is done again by Yannis Brutsis? You have to be careful when he says something. I, as a diligent reader, heard what he said and read the layout. It enables a joint ministerial decision to provide employment time actually and on Sundays and Saturdays to working groups established in accordance with the decision. In no case arises in any case seven days’ work for twenty - four hours seven days a week. Simple logic is the provision and it clearly says that by common ministerial decision people are defined, working time is defined. Therefore, Mr Brutsis, do not attempt to create a fog in order to hide the force, which is not, in my opinion, a perpetual force, so it is trying to be presented by you, that is to say, an incorrect wording of the opinion of the Chief of Staff, while it is a political target for a stable, lasting and without employment limits. This project is already moving from your allies to Europe. In no case does this stigma change for the New Democracy. However, the provision does not say what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u276	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u277	Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u278	First of all, I want to talk about the legislative improvements that we bring so that you can put yourself in. But I, too, have to give an answer. Apart from what Mr Petropoulos said, he was mentioned before and by Mr Vorides that "you are bringing an amendment that brings us back to 2014". I would like to remind you of a few issues. Something you probably don't remember well. You do not remember that in 2014 when you brought this proposal on the focus, you did not complete the fifth evaluation. You do not remember that in 2014 when you had brought this proposal back, you had not set the debt. You do not remember that you had created the 31 billion-dollar pillow that we have today nor had you put into an account of 5.5 billion to be guaranteed. You don't remember you weren't finished with the memoirs. You had a misfortune about getting out on the markets. You haven't been out on the markets like we've been out today. Nevertheless, I would also like to ask you the following question: have you cost, have you quantified the proposals you have made to us? Because, if you've done all this and there's the rest of it, we have another point of view. And because we want to have a seriousness in all that we are doing and in all that we are bringing to Parliament, we, with the legislative improvements that we are currently bringing, have to complete: first of all, as far as the bill is concerned, what we are supplementing is that we extend the doses to legal persons for the first category to twenty-four and the second category to thirty-six. The doses for legal persons shall be increased to twenty-four and thirty-six. It doesn't go any further. There is also the possibility of repayment, as was the case for the previous one, for the eighteen and thirty. Also, in the budgetary area we have, we are bringing what we consider to be very important, not that we would not like to bring the reduction in coffee, in the catering, to bring it, too, to be at the reduced rate, at 13%. But, indeed, because we need to put some priority into it, we are bringing VAT reductions on the products that are coffee products on the shelf, tea, coffee, "maté" on the spices, and on the preparations of vegetables, fruits and fruits, and extracts, essences and concentrates of coffee. Another which we consider to be very important, which had really escaped from us, after an amendment tabled by a SYRIZA MEP, Mr Dimitriadis - if I am not mistaken, correct me if I am wrong - is this: there is, in addition to gas in a region of Macedonia, in Kozani Prefecture, network heating and district heating. And we ought to lower the VAT from 13% to 6%. That's what we can and that's what we do today. We'll keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u279	You're reducing him to district heating?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u280	We're reducing him to district heating from 13% to 6%. These are the legislators we're tabling. That's what we can do and that's what we're doing. Be a little patient, in the next period we will have other surprises using the financial space we will have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u281	Mrs Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u282	I'm not gonna answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u283	No, you just got the floor in your dentistry. We don't have that debate now. The MPs will be speaking now.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u284	Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u285	Mrs Caracosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u286	Good evening. Where to start and where to finish. But I'm going to start because sometimes you want to say things, but you're caused by the previous speakers and you're forced to answer. It is clear that the Left and the Right have serious ideological differences and they are completely different things. I don't have to say too much. Mr Vorides said it himself, because Mr Vorides is the ideologist of the clean right, not to say the extreme view of the New Democracy. He said it himself. We, he says, have left-wing equilibrium ideas, which they do not have, and so there must be no equilibrium, there must be disparity in people, have different opportunities, because there are smart people, the nice and the rich, and the others are poor, the ugly and the bad. So how are we going to equate people? Clearly, which is an ideological difference on the right with the left and said it with one phrase. He also identified who people have a right to health and who do not. Alas, illegal immigrants have to die on the street and we just bury them though. They do not need to have free health: since they have illegally entered our country, they must definitely die! These are the essential differences, which is why uninsured people, who are not only illegal immigrants, are also the poor Greeks - take care of them, go for the "emotional ideas" - have no right to health. So it gave us a clear analysis of what the Right believes and we have to admit it. At the same time, however, you must also decide and at some point admit that we as the left government were planning and had a programme. I want you to remember the phrase that we were saying that we made forward-looking choices, that is to say, in the difficult phases that we passed through the memorials and through the situations that you left us, with the lenders in our head, we in fact took economic measures on our back, which we did not believe and we have confessed on several occasions, we do not have to repeat. One of these, for example, was the reduction in pensions. You took advantage of it for a very long time, you made all pensioners yelling at us, but today, well or badly, it's hard to do so, so we didn't reduce pensions. So we have managed to restore collective agreements, abolish the underpaid wage and so many others that we have done so far, which in the world are well known. Who were found, ladies and gentlemen, in debt? I'm an architect. The entire field of civil engineering, architects, topographers, all the engineers and all the class of mine. Since 2010, if you remember, the building stopped and the contractors were found, who had contributors, with unleashed properties in their heads, to pay HPAI, who you put him, to pay a lot of things and not have received the profit of their jobs. All those who were found in debt, we come today - because in your own governance they were found in debt, not in our own - with these hundred and twenty instalments to make it easier for them to retire, because - think - ten years ago people, free professionals are before retirement and now they will be able to retire. Don't you see that? You've mobilized a lot of people. And indeed in my office, because I'm also a woman, the widows who said "do it now". We have explained to them that we really cannot do this now, but at the first opportunity after the memorandum we will fix it. You've taken them so hard that they didn't believe us. Today, however, good or bad, I have received many calls that have been said to us 'bravo, you have done so'. So what does it mean to them? That a turn begins in the minds of the world, to realize that this government houses things and houses them in behalf of the people they really need. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if you want - ah, this bell! - give me some time by closing the bell. We really need to understand exactly what we have done and we need to understand that right-wing people with whom we really have a difference. We also redistributed through the laws we passed. For example, the Katorugalu law, which you pay insurance on the basis of your income, did indeed burden those who had high incomes, but the many who had low incomes, facilitated them, because some, few, paid more and this piece strengthened our funds. Although 80% of the insured people paid a quarter of what they paid before, they still balanced the funds. This is a redistribution that aims, aims, and carries pieces from those who have in functions of those who do not. This is Left. That is what we are doing, and that is what we will do, and that is clearly not what the right does. Of course, I would like to refer to the very good things that this law has, but you realise that I do not have time to do so. As far as individual and women are concerned, we are also aware of the fact that we are not only talking about widows, we are generally talking about widows, as well as about children who are increasing in time, etc. However, it is an excellent measure to which I would certainly like to refer, the introduction of the basis for dismissal. That's a hell of a spot. The employer must, in fact, prove why he is dismissing his employee and not when he claims his rights to be able to dismiss him without reason and, of course, to take the person who costs him cheaper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, too. Mr. Fortsakis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the famous regulation of the debts to the social security institutions, the tax administration and the OTA. A regulation which has been well-advertised, anticipated for a long time and which, of course, is essential, but which is suffering from many aspects. She suffers because of her origin from her base, she suffers because her effectiveness will not be the one that is expected and suffers because she does not belong to a more comprehensive plan and I will say two thoughts on each of these points. First of all, the government remains today as unrepentant as it has for a long time, with regard to the policy of tax neutralisation of citizens, which it follows firmly, without learning any of the results so far, especially the results that have affected the long-term order. The policy of imposing superfluous insurance contributions, the policy of economic impoverishment of companies with the burdens that exist and the policy of depriving them of valuable liquidity from the market by not paying back the dues. I would remind you that we have a total of twenty-seven new taxes and seventeen pension cuts and increases in SYRIZA contributions. After all, our country has gained the sad privilege of the OECD as a champion in increasing taxes, in the report on public revenue statistics for 2018. This government policy is in complete contrast with that of all the other European countries, where taxes generally go downwards and exposes late private debt to heights unthinkable. It is characteristic that in March 2019, tax debts and insurance funds exceeded 140,000,000, 000, and these debts were increased 64% since December 2014. Overall, more than 5.5 million fellow citizens owe us to the public and more than a hundred thousand fellow citizens have been forced to execute them. If we were in a situation where we could share money from an over-performance that would not be due to over-exhaust, but to economic over-performance, then the measures would be really effective. Welcome now, because the measures are now needed, but their sustainability, if it is not supported by an economic development policy effectively, suffers. It is clear that there is no way out of the huge problem created by debts, without any overall regulation. And this overall character is lacking by the present regulations. The New Democracy has proposed, for about a year now, a brave regulation of the issue, and in particular of the hundred and twenty instalments, a regulation which, firstly, will clear up the old incomplete debts, which will enable the debtors to remain in the arrangement for the old debts and will enable them to be consistent with their current obligations. I would remind you that there are debtors who, even a thousand and two hundred, will still not be able to pay because they simply have nothing. That is where a period of grace is needed. The effectiveness of the measures is suffering from many aspects. Of the income criteria, of which the amount of instalments depends, the huge interest rate that continues to be borne by the debtors, 5%, which is compared to half and less than half, when the debt is reversed, when the public is owed, by the heterogeneous nature of the proposed regulation for small and medium-sized enterprises and by the total absence of consideration of the fact that there are consistently, who, despite being in the same economic, family and social situation as those who have not achieved it, have been forced and achieved. We're leaving them outside? This also raises a question of constitutional protection on the basis of the principle of equality. The despair that has come from the citizens must be shared with all of us. The situation now created by the new third pension will only improve matters. This allowance, which actually represents 1/3 of the amount that once was the tenth pension, is an infinitely minimal aid, which cannot relieve the citizens, who are now suffering dramatically. I would like to remind you that the government has imposed measures amounting to EUR 10,000,000,000, has reduced duty-free, and has made the middle class poor. Two hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens have applied for retirement and have not yet received the pension they are entitled to. On the other hand, new pensions, which are granted under the Katrugalou law, are reduced by almost 40%. In fact an entire pension has been lost. Our difference is that we accept the measures and want them, but we include these measures in a coherent framework, in a context that will enable them to function as part of a plan to repair the economy, and that can only ensure the sustainability and effectiveness of these measures. Not only does the government do what it needs to release the productive powers here, but it does the opposite and keeps them locked up. If economic policy does not change, I fear that they will not be able to deliver what is expected. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Greek Parliament, forty-nine students and students and four teachers from the University of Constantinople Pieria. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Andreas Michaelides from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it essential that I make a little mention of what Mr Voridis has already said. It is well known, of course, that his unfaithful views, which he has repeatedly expressed against the Left and that he allegedly opposes freedom. I want to remind him and I think we have to tell him in this Chamber as our obligation that the Left has given thousands of people who have fought for the freedom and rights of the Greek people in front of the German conquesters, against the practice of dominance and against the palaces and the colonists of the junta. So I don't think we can talk today about enemies of freedom. We have an obligation on these issues to be clear and absolute. The volunteers are elsewhere, and their descendants belong elsewhere, and the meaning is. Ladies and gentlemen, the central importance of the provisions of the bill we are debating today, precisely because of the expected benefit to a large part of society, I think it is a given and recognised one, to such an extent that they force the New Democracy to object, whether it is trying to change its pleading debate on completely irrelevant issues, or finally to accept the necessity of those provisions, which certainly did not arise as a result of our own policies, but mainly because of the inefficiency of incomes and labour rights which was unprecedented in the period 2010-2014. Top and flagrantly important is the settlement of debts to the insurance funds. I think that we have repeatedly referred to previous Members, and I do not want to repeat an issue which concerns a million and a half unemployees. These arrangements will not only achieve the reduction of the debtors and guarantee their insurance and pension capacity, but also increase the public benefit significantly. I would like to point out the 85% cut in the premiums and the total write-down of the debt that would clearly exceed 50% of the total debt to a particular category of people. A special reference must definitely be made to declaring it for a large mass of tens of thousands of free professionals who could not be retired because of their debts of more than EUR 20,000. Let me refer to two measures that concern us islanders, first - first - the reduction of VAT in the focus that will apply from this year and undoubtedly represent an instrument for supporting the tourist economy, strengthening competitiveness and, of course, also for our islands. The reduction in income tax for the small islands of up to three thousand inhabitants is restored from year to year, and the reduction of the ETUC for islands with up to a thousand inhabitants is also introduced. These are targeted interventions from which people of small islands will benefit, such as - and allow me to refer to my county - the Fish and the Oinoussa. Also, from year to year the tax for all cooperatives is reduced to 10% and an additional 10% reduction is provided for the income tax on each cooperative farmer. Let me point out this regulation and its favourable application for a large cooperative that employs our island, that of the mastic producers of our island. Ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that the bill, which we are debating today, provides a significant relief in broad social strata, with clear care for the weakest of them. In the end, it has an indirect but strong developmental character, in the sense that the left-wing and progressive forces give growth, i.e. in terms of redistribution, strengthening the social majority's available income and armoring the world of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u291	Thank you, too. Mr Andreas Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u292	I can wait until they speak two or three more speakers. I don't mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u293	Mrs. Gara has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, on 14 May, ninety years have passed since the release of Thrace, and we must pay tribute to all those who fought for its release. Thrace with rich history has always been the crossroads of the East and West and is even today a beautiful and rich multicultural mosaic. So, as members of the Greek Parliament, we also have to keep the historical memory alive. With regard to this draft law, I think it would be a good opportunity to discuss work and the role of the state in modern times. We could present our proposals and programmes open to the Greek people. Unfortunately, however, most of the anti-population colleagues tend to throw the ball out of the court and not to be placed on the ground. You characterise permanent measures as benefits, degrade the value they may have for citizens, denounce positive measures as election or inappropriate. Really, what are you suggesting? Fortunately, the President of the New Democracy is very sincere and does not hide his perceptions, however much the rest of the executives are struggling to gather the uncomfortable and are called upon to explain what he says, accepting the misuse of the language by him. So Mr Mitsotakis tells us that social equality is contrary to human nature. He tells us he's interested in communication, not the essence. He told us today that they should take private care of public hospitals and rent services. He told us that shops should work on Sundays. Finally, he told us that in a changing world and that we must adapt to it, we must work seven days a week and that eight hours are already overdue. I'm really afraid of this when I hear it. The worst thing, however, is not what he says, but what you have already done in the recent past. After you have captured the state, after you have provoked the bankruptcy of the country and of society, you have proceeded to a full-destruct programme - a hand-to-hand with the International Monetary Fund, so that the country can allegedly overcome the crisis. You have dismantled the state, led to the dismissal of thousands of young people and workers. You blocked millions of people from the good of health and put five euros in a ticket, as if we were going to the movies. You have led small and medium-sized enterprises to a padlock and - listen, all of you who support entrepreneurship have been handcuffed and self-sufficient shops in their shops for debts of five thousand euros. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, have you ever been in the job of the unemployed? Have you ever worked seven days for 15 hours for 300 euros? You left your father or your kid at the hospital to go to the office, why don't you wait for the next one? No irreplaceable in neoliberalism. Have you ever been with two euros on the 20th and in despair? Did you meet thirty-five people with degrees and special qualifications staying in their mother's house, because their salary isn't enough? Did you ever pass through the piles that you had built? Have you seen people's eyes lose their dignity? These are your things. It's not a theory, it's not a word. We've all experienced them. In our own policy, we are responding to all these needs. Here, then, today, are two different worlds, your world of exploitation, poverty, total privatisation, the attack on the world of work. On the other hand, it is our world, which at the heart of protecting labour and the social state, because the state is not an independent machine, but consists of all of us citizens and has to develop a social protection net. Despite the economic crisis, we have given priority to protecting and supporting our weakest fellow citizens. We have re-established a sound insurance system, re-established the social state and public structures to support society itself. We support young people, patients, pensioners, new couples, children, scientists, workers, small and medium-sized enterprises, all those who were and are invisible to you. By the way, you blame us for the social dividends and you do not understand that, apart from supporting the family budget, it is an indirect, small increase in consumption of local markets and commercial enterprises, you, who are cut off on entrepreneurship. It turns out every day that you don't even care about this part of society, apart from their very large businesses and their benefits. I will not go on with details, as well as the arrangements to be voted on have been analysed in detail by the previous speakers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I will only mention that after hard work, good planning, conflicts and deprivations we have restructured the health system, the insurance system, the public services. We re-established the social state. With small and large interventions we gradually alleviate citizens. Today one of the largest draft arrangements, relief and support for all those who have failed to deal with the crisis is to vote. Are we late? Yeah. Needs were imperative from the start. We, as parliamentarians, have been pushing for the first time. However, I believe that sooner we could not proceed to brave debt and surcharges of up to 100%. It is particularly important, therefore, that thousands of our fellow citizens who have established a right to a pension are being detached. These people were at a dead end. They neither got a pension nor could work to get an extra income. Also important is that the regulations and increases for widow's pensions are restored. In addition, thousands of self-employed and self-employed enterprises are exempted from surcharges and are regained the right to tax and insurance information and take breath. At the same time, thousands of engineers with debt regulation regain the right to use their licence. Therefore, with this large package of arrangements, thousands of our fellow citizens are reinstated into the labour market to redefinite their social role. Finally, although it has not emerged as much as it should, especially for households as for businesses, I think it is a reduction in energy VAT, as production costs are drastically reduced. In a changing world, then, we are modernising the state, we are integrating new technologies, we are building a social state again, we are taking action against strife and corruption, we are supporting and strengthening our fellow citizens, we are creating prospects for young people, we are reintegrating protection of labour and social rights, rights for which blood has been spilled on the streets, the squares and the factories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u295	So do we. Mr. Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u296	First of all, to Mrs Gara: Who told you, ma'am, that you have a monopoly on social sensitivity and folklore? Where did you hear that? I lost my parents when I was seventeen and everything you said I've been through. I'm in New Democracy and I'm proud. I've been working since I was a kid. You're not going to make us a socially sensitive monopoly here. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because in the previous parliamentary term, when there was a suicide, all of you hypocrites came here and said: 'The world is committing suicide', 'five thousand suicides', one,'six thousand suicides', the other,'seven thousand suicides', third. Today, we had three suicides in the morning. Did you mention it, Mrs. Gara? Oh, no. Now people don't kill themselves. Now they're throwing them all with flowers. And because you had the nerve to talk about social sensitivity to us, the genuine popular party of the country, who do you think are voting for New Democracy? Farmers vote for New Democracy. The people of the biopale are voting for New Democracy. Small and medium-sized enterprises are voting for a new democracy. We waited for you? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And since you have the nerve and Mr. Petropoulos is here, we in the previous period, as you said, when the troika was pushing us to cut the pensions, we put a brake on 1,000 euros. There was no harm to a single pension in the government of Samaras under the 1,000 euros. The first time came the left and all the cuts you made with the increase in health reservations and everything else, you made them from the first euro. And because Mr Brutsis had this conflict the day before yesterday with Mr. Petersburg, I would mention here from the ADAP data: the average pensioner's income - because we are talking about the tenth pension today, yours, in 2014 on the Government of Samaras was EUR 13,231,51. The average of the pensioners on the Tsipra government is EUR 11,175.24. You're such hypocrites, you're going to make suggestions to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u297	We'll do it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u298	He's got your signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u299	You, ma'am, cut off the pensions and the lower pensioner. You cut off the N.C.E.S. I was in this House - the New Democracy colleagues remember - when Alexis Tsipras was up - who told us yesterday that it is okay for his ministers to be at the bottom - and said from this Step: 'Who MP will vote? Are they thinking about the cut in CSCE? If possible!’. And do you know which Prime Minister cut it off? Alexis Tsipras! And do you know who the MPs voted for it? You underneath, playin' socially sensitive!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u300	You agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u301	You're Pharisee hypocrites! And now we're going to the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u302	Every 5 euro visit to the hospitals paid!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u303	Did they pay 5 euros? You're causing me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u304	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u305	For the 5 euros, ma'am, whoever went to a hospital, if needed, that was 19 million euros a year...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u306	Don't yell, Mr. Georgiadis. Listen up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u307	...you put 2% increase on the main pensions and 6% on the subsidiary and made the 19m euros, 700m euros. You're such hypocrites.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u308	You left 2.5 million people outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u309	But let's go a little bit to the last one. All uninsured people entered by my own law. You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u310	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u311	You're a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u312	All the insecure have gained access to health from my own law - go find the FEK - and from my own ministerial decision. Liars!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u313	You're a liar and a badass.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u314	Anyone who wants to press on Google and finds the law and the ministerial decision. He said below: "Minister of Health of Spyridon - Adonis Georgiadis". He doesn't say any symbols. So, what happened before? Mr. Petersburg, I'm really surprised! He says Yannis Brutsis on the big seven-day subject. You made it a matter of the days. We didn't. On the contrary, we praised a collective agreement signed by Mrs Ahtsoglou on your day. Instead of telling us: 'We did this', you started all these fakes against Mitsotakis. It is done before with the amendment, and you said Brutsi was lying. Why? Because - it says - the amendment will be set up by a ministerial decision setting out the terms and conditions. Isn't that what you said? Because the laws you are voting on - you know - are what is written, not what the Minister says here to mock the world, in paragraph 1 you say: 'The participation of officials in the recommended working groups is compulsory and employment in them exclusively'. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Petropoulou, I after the smuggling you made at "ELIOS" I would be ashamed to come to the House. With regard to paragraph 3, which you had and the nerve to disprove Mr Brutsi, I would like you to comment on the following: 'The working groups can provide afternoon overtime and overtime on Sundays and on special days', namely holidays, Saturdays and Sundays. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Are you not telling me why you would enable the Minister to make a ministerial decision that would make these groups work on Sundays and exceptional days? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So don't tell us about seven days' work. What you are voting on here is - what we are saying in this House - legislative power so that you can put in place seven days' work. That's what you're voting on here. Pharisees, hypocrites! Let's get together! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let's go to Mrs. Papanaceu. We tabled an amendment to return the VAT scheme where you received it in 2014. We didn't do anything else. You're telling us that we've come out of the memorials, you're telling us you're triumphing, you're telling us that you've covered corruption and that the country is going fine. What do we say? After you're doing so well, the VAT will go where you received him, not below, but where you received him. And what did you just tell us? 'It is not enough for the money.' I'm sorry, can't the money go where the VAT comes from? Then what kind of success is it that you did after four and a half years?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u315	You put them in the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, I am interrupted. I need a minute more. You had the courage to say the best: you hadn't shut down - it says - the fifth evaluation. Excuse Mrs Papanatsiou, because she was not in the previous House. The fifth evaluation, ma'am, did not close - to learn new Greek history - because you fired us before the evaluation was closed. That's why he didn't close. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As far as the rates that were going up are concerned, you are partly right. The interest rates after the European elections you won began to rise. Do you know why? Because Samaras had the misfortune of having a opposition to a Tsipras who came up here in October 2014 and said: "I send a message to Brussels, Berlin and Washington that any agreement that Samaras will sign, I will cancel and any investor who brings money to Greece will shut him down." And then the interest rates went up! You have a Mitsotakis opposition, which says in the markets: "I will respect Greece's agreements and respect what the government does." So our difference is the difference in interest rates. Let Mitsotakis say what Tsipras said and I'd tell you where the interest rate would now be.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u318	I'll be right back, Mr. President. I don't understand. 'Three of oil, three of vinegar'. New Democracy has been pressing since the first day for the hundred and twenty doses to go to business, where natural persons are. After our great fuss, you come here and tell us that you increase the doses and make them from twenty-four, thirty-six. Madam Secretary, it's just stuff. We want the hundred and twenty instalments to apply to all. For both business and natural persons. Is that what you can do? Because business needs a hundred and twenty instalments too. Not thirty-six, not twenty-four. A hundred and twenty instalments for everyone wants New Democracy and that is why it is committed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Georgiadis, please very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u320	Finally, I address the President of this House on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u321	What personal? What is this, Mr. Bourra, you know? What kind of procedure is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u322	At the time of distortion, we live the unimmigrated. Yesterday I was at the 'AND1' to Mr Hatzinikolaou - and I thank him for having restored the truth - and asked if the New Democracy would guarantee Tsipras's thirteenth pension. I have explained that it is not a third pension and we cannot guarantee something that does not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u323	All the time on the show you're going to give here now? Are we serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u324	We'll give not the phony's allowance yours. We, as we have taken care of the pensioners and put the EUR 1000 brake on them, and I have proved to you what the pensioners received, I tell you that with Mr Mitsotakis the first to benefit are the pensioners and all the injustices you have done over the years will be corrected. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u325	We don't continue the show here, any kind of show. Anyone who fails in emissions restores it to emissions. Mr. Manius of SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u326	Mr President, nine minutes and twenty seconds have spoken. That's all I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u327	We got this messed up somewhere. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u328	But you didn't stop at all. You've been on vacation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Buras is protesting now. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u330	I protest because it was continually interrupted and you did not make a single comment. You were just saying that she's quieter.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u331	You've been heard by those who have to listen to you. Put the show down now. Quiet! It's over! It's over! Mr. Manius has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u332	Don't fight me. Another look of yours. Not to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u333	Please, too. If you don't want to, get out.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u334	Your look is different!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u335	Mr. Manius has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u336	It is regrettable for me to come to this Step, which I consider to be very important - not to say sacred - after Mr Georgiadis. It calls on the people to vote for the New Democracy. When the people vote for the New Democracy they do not vote praisers of the junta. And it's sad because I had the luck of fighting against the junta. But we're going to our issues, because this dialogue isn't over. I'll say that Mr. Georgiadis lied because he had made the law for the insecure. I was a doctor at the ESS at the Children's Hospital of Pentelis. In 2014 he had only 4,000 euros for all uninsured. He did 660 euros a simple strabismus operation. That is, if three - four children came in a year and two appendics, no more. Then they were going to taxi. Do not think of Mr Georgiadis disputing me, because I challenged him on December 6, 2013 - look, I was not a Member - in Hilton at a major conference held for the thirty years of the ESS. I said then - I have repeated it many times and it does not respond to it - that the way it had drafted the law on the costing of medicines gave it the right to have one hand under the office and the other to sign it. He didn't sue me. Now he'll sue the witnesses and the judges. Please, look at why there are a lot of stitches for your fur. So don't take it any further. Over-taxation of the Greek people. I read in the latest newspaper "KATHMERINI" a month and a half ago an economic note. It says that 19% of the people pay 90% of taxes. So that's overtax. Let's see next reading. This means that 81% of the people pay 10% of taxes. So where are they going to cut taxes? Of the 19% of them. We misunderstood Mr. Mitsotakis. I didn't misunderstood him. I am absolutely convinced that he is well aware of what he is saying. Man doesn't gaffe. I'm not the one who's gonna tell him if he's making mistakes. He says what he thinks. What did he say today? Since yesterday, I think he's been saying it. Let's put PPP in the hospitals. We saw and had to take off the washing contractors, the cleaning contractors. We've saved a lot of tens of millions of this thing. We went to the European courts and now we will have individuals in hospitals speculating against the Greek people and the Greek public. The proponents of the market do not answer a simple question. Since we have taxed 200 billion, the Memorandum, since that, after we got out of the memoranda, why do the markets applaud our policy? I will understand a criticism of this from the Communist Party. But from New Democracy? I don't understand. What was it that went crazy about the markets? The Prime Minister's charm? No, of course not. They are the numbers that are hard for the opposition and happy for the people. In our five years we have developed on average 0.7% a year from 2015 to 2018. The corresponding figure was 5% of GDP reduction. No growth. That is why we lost 25% of GDP. Increase in the tax burden in the economy from 25.5% that we received in 2014 to 27.1%. That's an increase of 1.5%. The corresponding is from 20% received in 2014 they went to 25.5%. That's an increase of 5.5%. In 2015-2018, the public debt without cash assets decreased by 9,4 percentage points of GDP. The corresponding period of government from the crisis to 2015 was 51.1 percentage points of government debt growth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Private wealth increased by 85 billion euros, while private wealth over the days of the first four-five years of the memoranda was a reduction of 550 billion. The deposits of households and businesses have increased by 7.4 billion compared to March 2018 and it is unlikely that they have increased since 2014. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Can I speak, Mr. President? Do I go on? Has anyone been disturbed? If anyone was bothered to tell me. What are we doing? Is that a tip? Are they crumbs? Did we get the ten?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u337	Who's holding time?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u338	Please. Respect that I've been president of assemblies of three thousand four hundred doctors. Don't be like that. Anyway, what is it we're doing? Is this an election allowance? Sure. If we did so in December 2016, it would be an election allowance, because since 2015 they said that we were going to elections. If we did it halfway through 2017, it was a election allowance again, because we were going to elections and he went by telling this election boy. We get, he says, ten and we give one. I hear that from the JRC's criticisms, and it's a mistake. We didn't get ten and we gave one. If we got ten, we've given about nine. Somebody who knows how to add. When we got 780 million for welfare, and we've done it about 3 billion, which means about four times up, you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u339	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u340	In any case, if we wanted to make election trips, we are much more wicked than they think. We wouldn't put the 5.5 billion on this guarantee fund. We'd take the 2, we'd give it right away and nobody would say about that misery that we give the people. It's his money, not to forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u341	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u342	Mr. Georgiadis, please very much. You produce in person with your speech every time. We will turn the meeting into an exchange of personal matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u343	I'm sorry, the whole House heard what Mr. Manius said against me. Excuse me, but more definition of the staff than that does not exist. You'll give me a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u344	You'll give me the floor, too, if Mr. Georgiadis takes it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u345	Of course, take as much as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u346	Mr. Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u347	Dear Mr Manier, I say this ironically - I did not remember telling me that when I was a Minister of Health. But because you have insinuated something about my moral formation here, I undertake tomorrow to sue you, and I hope you, stay here, request that your immunity be not lifted. Did we agree? We're closing this. I will sue you tomorrow, you will not ask for your immunity to be lifted, as you have done all this time and you will come to court, to prove what you have said about my moral formation. As far as the'sounder' is concerned, listen, Mr Manier. After last week's debate, SYRIZA's talk about junta and anti-sounds is going a lot. I'd leave it in your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u348	Please! Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u349	In particular, however, you, who have supported Mr Kammenos as Minister of Defence, who has written you in his book as a terrorist and yet you have taken a vote of confidence while he was telling you a terrorist, should be three times as careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u350	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u351	To close the health, Mr Manier, I challenge you to bring on my own service, after my law, that is, after March 2014, a certificate to the tax office of an insured person. You'll bring one here in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u352	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u353	And I'll apologize to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u354	It's over! It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u355	On my order, no hospital would charge anyone insured. And you lied to the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u356	Mr. Manius has the floor for a minute and it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u357	Mr President, I want the floor for a minute too.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u358	It's over! No, there isn't. Just Mr. Manius for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u359	Mr President, our faces are known in Greek society. I don't have anything personal. But in what he says, about 33 million caught up with the Ministry of Health and erased them, which was...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u360	Before I go! Not after!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u361	Please! Please! Learn not to interrupt speakers. Well, about 33 million has stopped them. That was the free health they had.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u362	Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u363	Mr President, give me a minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u364	I too, Mr President, need a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u365	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u366	Are we serious now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, Mr. Georgiadis called us liars.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u368	Wait a minute! I ask you to facilitate the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, please, just a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u370	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u371	Why do you want the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u372	Of course, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u373	You, Mr. Cryazides, are you asking for the floor as a precaution?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u374	Mr. Georgiades, you're lying and filing me, too. Mr President, do I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u375	Will it take the floor now? Should I call him later?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u376	If you have anything to say, of course, get him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u377	Mr. Vardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u378	Mr President, this Chamber cannot hear such inaccuracies. In 2014, I personally presented in the Minutes of the House attestations, medical attestations, tax attestations, hospital attestations charged by hospitals to uninsured people. It's never been applied...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u379	Before my law.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u380	I didn't interrupt you! The ministerial decision implied by Mr Georgiadis has never been implemented. That's why I'm saying she's lying. Secondly and finally, I would like to tell you that 10 million uninsured debts have been cancelled at the hospitals in Heraklion, as well as over 100 million globally, by decision of this government, with the signatures of Xanthos and Polakis. You're lying, Mr. Georgiadis. I've filed it in the Minutes. You know that and you won't call us liars. You have never applied the decision. The decision on the medical coverage of uninsured persons is a decision of this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u381	Good. We've heard you. I'm not gonna need a medical opinion. The procedure will normally continue. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u382	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is a bill of vegetarianism, what we are discussing today. And they are veilers precisely because he tries, in vain, to cover the fact that anti-grassroots policy will continue, that the people and the working class will continue to pay the burdens of capitalist development. But in vain, you try to cover up that with your policy and the bill, what you do is nothing but support and satisfy the needs of monopolies. Thus, anti-population policy in the current conditions continues for capitalist development and preservation, to shield competitiveness and capitalist profitability. And it goes too far for the government to claim that it restores the job. We could talk hours of barbarism in the labour market, part-time work, the hired workers, apprenticeships, the delays in the payment of workers, the intensification of work, the accidents at work, the occupational deaths - a whole list, a download, which does not end - the conditions of democracy, which Marx, urban democracy and the liberties that stop outside the factory gates. From this point of view, the government is keen to say that it restores work and fights with New Democracy and seven days work. Who? You and the previous ones have accepted the European Union's policy. What is the European Union's policy? That it is not possible to adjust working time on a daily basis. Seven hours, five hours, thirty-five hours in a week. The working time adjustment is done annually. So one day it can work for fifteen and twenty hours if someone needs it, and the needs of the business require it. You come and talk, when you have brought SYRIZA to Greek law, Directive 2003/88 of the European Union. What does this directive say? On the basis of the judgment of the European Court of Justice, it speaks of a continuous 12-day period. What seven days? Continuing 12 days. And the European Court of Justice, whose rulings prevail over all the others, says that for a man who works on a six-day basis, the length of work without rest can be extended at 12 days and for someone who works for a five-day period without rest at 10 days. And now you're talking about the seven days? Aren't you embarrassed? Don't you have a gum? You brought the release of Sunday's holiday? SYRIZA's government brought this. In other words, the government of SYRIZA on the pieces and legends of the labour market, left by New Democracy and PASOK, came and dissolved everything. And we challenge you. Has the JRC tabled an amendment to the right to strike? What's stopping you? Is this a budgetary issue? Tell us, is this a budgetary issue and you do not accept it? Is the financial issue of the abolition of 50% plus 1%, which makes the strike impossible? Why don't you take it? Who are you protecting in this way? The interests of the worker or capitalist? It is a flagrant amendment to this amendment. And yet, you're doing what you don't understand. You whistle indifferently, causing. Look, we as a JRC are not used to talking personally, either to a minister or to a MP. We're avoiding it. And that's because it's a personal case. However, cannot Mr Balommenakis move his hand in the JRC and tell us: 'Why do you not accept the European Charter of Rights'? Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Declarations and words of the air, without any content. What do we have to accept? Aren't these directives leading to the working jungle with this European Charter? Is that not the European Union's policy? Has the Charter of European Rights prevented anything from happening? It's an old paper, it's a rag. Are you invoking it to move the finger on the KIC? A little respect should exist, especially when you do all this in the labour market. And based on this data, what are you doing? You come with your law, with your measures, with your policy, and you even more support business groups. Subsidy, you say, to business groups. Even more coverage of the so-called non-wage costs of contributions for young workers. In other words, you are giving free money from taxpayers' money to businessmen. You come and do with the money of taxpayers, workers, self-employed, pensioners tax reliefs on big capital. You are reducing the tax rates for public limited companies, which, as a whole, only contribute to 5% of all tax revenues. That's how it is. It's not more than that. And you're further reducing the tax rate. And not only is that enough, but you also reduce the tax rate of the distributed profits, i.e. the radars, the economic oligarchy, to 10%, when the rest of you tax it by 22%. And what is the most tragic of all? You will bring an order - the Prime Minister announced it - which says that depreciation can reach 150%. What are the two standards you apply? To workers and people's households, you put a presumption of non-existent costs, to pay more tax to entrepreneurs, to business groups, you put a presumption of non-existent actual costs, to pay less tax. Are you calling this a progressive tax policy when it is the abstraction of class for the benefit of capital? And you're telling us about the conflict between progressive and conservative? What else are you doing? You're talking about VAT on the cafeteria. What are you doing this for? To shield the competitiveness of businesses in the tourism sector. That's why you're doing it. And when I'm gonna go with my kids and have a cup of coffee and an orangeade, 24% VAT. This is why you reduce VAT for business groups active in the tourism sector. That's why you're reducing the VAT on energy. The pain in energy poverty has not caught you, but for the energy-intensive industries. And we told you to change it. We told you to separate that assessment so that we could vote on it. That is why we cannot vote for your amendment. Gifts to power-driven businesses? And after all, down from where do you get these gifts from? You say from budgetary over-performance. And who's bleeding for budgetary over-performance? The worker, the professional, the retired, the farmer. He bleeds for the beastly surpluses and surpluses of 8 and 9 billion a year. And at best you return one of them. So you get him ten to give him back one. And he has to tell you and thank you? Isn't it the logic: "Can I burn you, Giannis, lubricate you with oil?" That's the logic. And you say celebrating: 'We are establishing the thirteenth pension'. Really? You're establishing the thirteenth pension? The board of EKKA is at least more serious than your own foolishness, because it says: "We give a holiday allowance, a holiday aid" and not a third pension. You have here maintained the policy of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, which abolished the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions. And now you're coming back. You took from the retired, from the ERCF 2.5 billion a year, and you say that we are returning 800 million. You've reduced pensions by the Katorugalou law, and from above you say it's no good, to give a help on a yearly basis. The same logic can be seen in the regulation of debts in the insurance funds. What are you bringing? Recalculation - says - of pensions. "If you want us to cut off your debts, you need to reduce your pension. Pick what you'll lose." Not what you'll win, what you'll lose, beyond the issues of the real picture. What is the real picture of the insurance funds? That 82.7% of those who owe the insurance funds are up to 30,000. And how much is the debt? It's only 20%. The remaining 18%, i.e. 80%, owes insurance funds, large businesses. And why are they doing this? Are these strategic poor payers and you punish them? Oh, no. They couldn't pay. Now what are you telling them? "And you will pay the current contribution and we will settle the instalments you will pay." Can he take them for a walk? He couldn't bring them before, would he bring them now? Same with the taxi. Listen, IRS is even more tragic about the issue of tax raid. 95% of those in tax debt owed up to 20,000 and the total debt is 6.9% of total debt. 92%, that is, it owes only 6%. What does that mean? It means they can't pay. Are these strategic malpractices too? 80% of them owes up to 3,000 euros to the tax office. So what's that? It is people who cannot pay and say to him now: "I will settle the instalments, as long as you pay me today." What are you actually doing? Why is it a gift - a gift of those hundred twenty doses? Because the other guy can't even pay today. So, a self-employed person who has to pay 70% for tax and insurance funds, should he also pay for the instalments an additional 10%? And what's next? How will he live? Nothing? So what are you doing? You put a nipple on this world. You're barely pushing him to go to the cashiers to settle the debts under the break of the auction. Why are you doing all this? The second point of the veil. To set up a new episode in the cohort with the New Democracy, to try to create this fake twofold trap. Between Scylla and Harvest you want to encroach on the people when your policy looks practically like two drops of water. SYRIZA, New Democracy and PASOK to you agree. And at the bottom of the script, after Mr. Tsipras' infamous signature on the "Swimb Curtain" you have put a tombstone even invoked the struggles and our dead. Your aim, too, is to legitimise anti-grass policy in popular consciousness. What do you think? "Look, we're giving you something, so you agree to be sacrificed. Accept to make sacrifices on the altar of competitiveness and profitability of business groups." After all, all governments over time gave an election bonus and even an election bonus. What did you do with it? But you do it in a systematic way. What for? Because the other cannot survive and you say to him: “You will survive only with the benefits. So you'll need me." And in what period? In a period of capitalist development. Not being able to live. To meet his needs. Live with the benefits to reduce its demands. Mr. Mitsotakis does the same. What does Mr Mitsotakis say to workers and businesses? Work to make profits for the bosses, and if they want to, they'll give you something. Volunteers! So don't claim your rights and needs, don't fight for them and if they win something, you'll get something too. That's what you're saying. Tax, accept taxes, and if there is more of the money we give to pay off the state debt to the euro-police groups, we will also give you a false allowance to cover your poverty. So in the same way, logical move. And since the voluntary basis is the one that lives and reigns, let us make voluntary contributions to employers, capitalists and taxation, as you do for shipowners. Of course, you are also seeking to manipulate the working people's movement. The pensioners did not fight for this thirteenth pension 'carat'. Pensioners continue to fight for full recovery of stolen people. Because they're stolen. They've been paid and you and New Democracy and PASOK stole them. And they're struggling for the full restoration. The working class is struggling to be able to live on the basis of its needs, so that it can live on the basis of the level of development of productive forces rather than the tips of one and the other government, one and the other employer. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, too. Mr Tasos Petropoulos, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u384	Thank you very much, Mr President. Rehabilitate the truths a little. We will start from what Mr Mitsotakis said today in "SKAI", in Portuguese and in Paul Chima. "Instead of buying the state tomographers, to pay the individuals who own tomographers, and to work both civil servants and if they do their job well to get a bonus." This is a perception that leaves anyone listening to such a thing. One would say, 'NOVARTIS' from the back door. Come on again! Because the proportion of health that supports its existence in the private sphere of the economy, namely the pursuit of profits, where health becomes a commodity, cannot expect a positive course for the country. With such perceptions, in fact, the entire staff of the New Democracy is being blamed. It's not just Mr. Mitsotakis. There are also exceptions, of course, within the New Democracy. They are those people who fought, who tried and have the traditions of the social New Democracy. But I guess they're getting short. From what I understood earlier, the headline appearance of Mr. Georgiadis, the rehearsal Prime Minister for the next day, was evident for disposition such and feelings that are strengthened in the New Democracy. Because Mr Georgiadis, don't forget, he was ashamed of New Democracy a few years ago. He was ashamed of many inside New Democracy and these have been recorded in a very intense way. Today he said he was proud to be in New Democracy. It's time to see what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u385	And you at PASOK were, Mr. Petropoulou!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u386	I was in the Labour Movement, the Communist Movement since I was a kid.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u387	And you at PASOK were, Mr. Petropoulou!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u388	Well, it's okay. You have a good prospect, you can go to the right even if that's how you work and you think. You say things, we cut off the C.E.S. I would therefore like to remind you on the subject of the ESS: As you know, Article 39 of Law 3863 of 2010 has regulated the pension from January 2015. And it emerges directly - there is no need for interpretation - that the pension from January 2015 does not include CSR. The ESS had already been cut. In 2015...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u389	Who says that?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u390	Read him. You were also Minister of Labour, Mr. Brutsi. You cannot ignore elementary things that exist in the first Memorandum, which includes Law 3863 of 2010 and has laid the relevant clauses on budgetary expenditure with which the country has committed itself. Read, then. You want to become a government and you do not know what is in the legislative system that you supported. I wonder how you'd rule if it was time for you to become a government. These are in Article 39. And it is clear that the privileged benefits have now included the ESS, which has been segregated since retirement. What has, meanwhile, been a constant effort by lenders to end earlier than January 2015 with the cost of the CSCE. This was the debate that has taken place in the meantime and has included in the mail Hardouvelis the cutback of the EMS at a gradual pace. That's why Hardouvel's mail included it. If this were not the case, Hardouvelis would not have put the cut of the EWRS into the mail. And what did we do to get done with that fairy tale you're talking about? We maintained the ESS and extended its timeline until 2019. In the meantime, we have taken measures to support those affected by a number of options and by strengthening the pharmaceutical expenditure and by strengthening the social dividends for two years. And because time passes and you're not going to understand this anyway, because you intend to keep lying, you can refer to the data and the reports that the single social security institution itself has made public. That's where all the evidence seems, with great transparency. You are talking about comparing pensions. In fact, you blame us for having smuggled the 'ERGAN' system. Mr. Brutsis presented two tables. He even testified them. With a simple reference to the electronic software of the "ERGANI", one understands that the gross earnings are shown in one table, while the other table shows the net earnings. Simple as that. And it counts what's mixed up and says it's bigger than the other, the cleaner, which is smaller. Well, it makes sense that the clean is smaller than the mixed one. In fact, Mr Brutsis, you have removed one of the two pages, which appears to be the clean one, to show only what you wanted. It has close legs your lie and the truth is that on mixed pensions in July 2015 we had 792 euros old-age pension and in December 2018, 821. And if we take into account the thirteenth pension, which is paid, we will have an average limit of more than EUR 862. The comparison is therefore overwhelming. The pension paid is, in fact, much higher. And don't tell me about the reservations of the EEA, because the reservations of the EEA were calculated for a much larger part-time pension, and over our own term is now calculated on the net amount payable, not on the old quarters, which had not yet been cut. That is why we returned about 372 million with the correct indication of the obligation to contribute to the EEA. We returned to the insured, as we returned for the GFCF too, because the GFCF was also calculated on pensions that were not paid for many years ago. So we restored, in terms of justice, and correctly the contributions for EEIGs and EEIGs to actually paid pensions and not to plastics that included pensions that were no longer in existence. And what is our policy all these years? So now we do what we do to get the elections? If we list - and I have them registered here - all the policies that preceded all the years of our term of office to strengthen the low-pensioners, the low-paid, the insecure people, every time we took such a measure, in our minds, we obviously had a time when the elections were going to take place. That's not why. We did this because we promised the Greek people, we committed ourselves to these results, and we bring them - and we said it - until now. If you look at the Minutes of the House during the budget debate, what I told you, that we will do both hundred and twenty instalments and will not cut pensions and all these measures that have been put to the debate today since yesterday and will be voted on tomorrow, it is part of our overall political aiming at improving citizens' lives and continuing. Evidently, your aim is to show - quite rightly - that we are tempting the evidence to exclude pension spending, so that we can show a large surplus, reach a single purpose and I regret that you are doing so. You want to support the suggestion clearly, but to the creditors, to the institutions, to the Commission, that we do not really have a surplus and that we cannot move on to these measures to improve the lives of citizens, we cannot move to the thirteenth pension, we cannot move on to tax relief, we cannot reduce VAT. You are generally opposed, indeed, to what we are bringing today's debate and vote. And you will not hide it for a moment, because you are constantly raising legal issues and doubts if we can vote for the thirteenth pension, which you do not want to hear or hear. And the thirteenth pension is, in fact, the thirteenth, because it comes after the twelfth and the regular numbering after twelve is thirteen. Twelve pensions are given a year, and the tenth is the one to be voted on tomorrow, the way in which they are laid down, to the classification provided for. And, of course, there are all these measures, which demonstrate that the overall social protection offered by our government with the other parameters of this legislation but also before, gives an integrated solution and an improvement in the lives of citizens. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] And I'll finish with one more poaching. From what I have seen, Mr Brutsis has presented - and it is not Mr Brutsi's point of view, I am wrong, it serves a New Democracy policy to blur water, to create the image I have said before - that there are no real surpluses in the ECA, that the country lacks the ability to strengthen the weak, it must not take these measures and it is constantly objecting. And to support this argument, he keeps showing false evidence. Amongst these he presented a May 2015 document signed by the then Deputy Minister, Mr. Army, and said: "The pensions outstanding according to the Minister of Labour's document were then fifty-six thousand and now you say that they are forty-two, but they are four hundred thousand. So you have a huge stock of non-paid pensions to make EKA's revenue and capital abundantly increased." But this document, which was invoked as Brutsis, refers only to pensions for IKA and not to EKA. He knows it but he uses it to mislead Parliament once again and to provide arguments against these policies that go to help the Greek people. I address the five women, who in May 2015 had come to a gathering I had held in Thessaloniki, cancer patients, who could not take drugs for pain. I am addressing the people who, in fact, could not have an excess of their pension, because by regulating debts by offsetting them, they could not have a surplus of EUR 5, and now with the arrangements we are going to make, with the hundreds of twenty instalments, they will actually have a sustainable pension, because they will be able to pay EUR 50 and not EUR 500 for debt regulation. I appeal to all citizens to remember that the total abolition of gifts was done with this Government Newspaper on November 12, 2012 and that is what abolished the gifts, abolished the thirteenth pension. And this time has come for this tenth pension to be recorded in the FEK, which will be published after SYRIZA passed, in order to apply to the Greek people - finally - starting with a new beginning for our future.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor as a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Partnership. And then we'll keep going...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u392	From Parliamentary Representative to Minister again to Parliamentary Representative? When are we going to talk, Mr President? Shouldn't there be a layout? You can't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u393	No, we'll keep up with the list of speakers intactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u394	I am here at noon and I expect to speak, Mr President. What can I not yell at?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Beyala, we'll keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u396	Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u397	I gave my time to other MPs. You're shouting for free. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, as we have learned from the Prime Minister, SYRIZA, his MPs and ministers have acceded to and have embraced Christianity, and the teachings of Christ are very close in their views, I cannot make such a decision, I have no power or mood, what is the future after the death of all of us and each of us. However, on the basis of what the Deputy Minister of State said about the CSCE, who just came down from the Step, I don't see him much, because he lied about the CSCE. Is this a 2015 debate and will we do it again? Aren't you tired of lying? In 2015, on the eve of your referendum "pads" - supposedly - journalists said right and left that e-mail Hardouvelis includes the abolition of the CSCE, which did not include it, however. Anyone who has the e-mail Hardouvelis to bring it to me, to say that the CSCE is being abolished, is in favour of this by the Samara - Venizelos government and I say that I am wrong and I am sorry. But if it isn't brought by the minister who lied once again, after four years, he has to look a little in the mirror. He's obligated. The EKT established PASOK with Prime Minister Costas Simitis and the majority of SYRIZA and ANELs with Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras abolished it. That's the truth. You can't lie about it. We are eleven days from today for the elections, for which the Prime Minister said last Wednesday: "I am asking today for the confidence of the House, but also on May 26 in the European elections the Greek people's confidence in a plan of uplifting, recovery, aid" and so on. But yesterday in a television interview with AlPHA he said that the elections for Europe, for the European Parliament, are a referendum, are a poll. Is the election a poll? When the people are expressed in the Constitution, the sovereignty of the people is expressed. And when people's sovereignty is expressed in an organised and democratic way, there are no polls, there are decisions. Her specific decision relates to which Greek and Greek women will represent the Greek people in the European Parliament, which is so important now makes decisions. People's sovereignty is expressed on the 26th of the month and, as I said before in this Chamber, from 27 the multiplier will operate at the expense of the loser the political multiplier. The bad result, defeat in European elections promises, with only one exception, multiple defeats in the upcoming national election. Eleven and one, then, days for the upcoming elections, which are not a poll but an expression of popular sovereignty. And this, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is a constitutional kindergarten class, it has nothing to do with mature men and mature women. And I would like to say one thing about a demonstration - and I say it again the word - of benefits, which, like me, remember the checks that George Rallis was giving on the eve of the 1981 elections. It didn’t work out for him, however, because no one when they elect such a move, people don’t approve him. If you claim that you do but in practice do not do and we of the PASOK and the Change Movement have repeatedly said so, and I will repeat them. You're claiming. You're tired and put it in the carts, on the walk. He's tired of the people with you, and he'll tell you in the ballots. An issue of political gypsy, a lack of elementary generosity. I have received this from you in the worst way from the New Democracy. Usually I remember Costas Simitis opening works and saying that this work was envisioned and Stefanos Manos started it. I remember now from a part of the Attica Road I was there. I remember having inaugurated as State Secretary for Foreign Affairs the third Greek-Albassian passage and my sign to take it out by the Right-wings who won the elections in 2004. At the "Koryalenio" in Spetses, you put the sign, which was reformed during my term of office. But going to Lefkada, in a hospital that at the time you beat us, we decided, I made up my mind, taking responsibility, establishing and not saying a word, is the proof of political stinging, the lack of elementary political generosity in the year 2019. Unfortunately, our misdeeds remain the same and do not change. Now you're going to Chalkida. That was my political choice again. But you cannot erase the past of a party and policies that belong to it and claim that all of this has been considered or decided by you. You systematically hide our work and Mr. Xanthos was very characteristic in the morning when speaking of the delayed rebate of the governments of New Democracy, he did not mention the 387 million that, with my own political choices and Giorgos Koutrumanis, we received from the pharmaceutical companies. But you know them, because you're in this ministry. False, too, is the two and a half million unsafe. I heard the previous debate, I will not come back. 96% of the citizens with decisions starting in 2010 and reaching all the governments that went through by 2014, 96% of the country's population had insurance. You added the uninsured card, and that was very positive, because you facilitated and incorporated the remaining 4%. That's what the numbers say. When I was Minister of Health, I had about 150 million - I said this here in the House - 'orphan' hospital expenses, i.e. costs from offering health services to uninsured people. It was 150 million a year. These were not to cover insured persons but to cover uninsured persons. Now we're going to insurance. You have transformed the insurance after the incredible changes to the miserable Katorugalou law into a privileged system, in a system of providing benefits. That's not an insurance policy. He got from the beginning of 2015, from the retired, the Tsipras government, and instead, as promised, to give an insurance policy, destroyed everything he found in the first half of the year with the twin Army and Skourlet. He ruined the insurance policy of the country, which had a perspective by 2060, and then came to make an insurance policy that would change the architecture of the system, and you became a change from the day after his vote, and now you have turned it into a system - you would not say it - but into a mechanism to provide a protectionist benefits, without any principle of proportionality of contributions and pensions, without incentives to insurance, and especially to all young people, while you have turned it into tax for the medium-sized layers. That's not insurance. In the middle layers, anyone who is a professional in this area, a lawyer, a doctor, an engineer, a farmer, knows that perfectly well. You have abolished the insurance relationship with growth. So you left the insurance with no legs. Because insurance without growth makes no sense. From what Yannis Koutsoukos said, I do not choose to repeat and say much, one thing I will only say. With the AIA data, the average for pensioners' income in the years you are running shows a 15.5% reduction. That is, the average pensioner's income in 2014 was EUR 13,231 and now it is EUR 11,175. This is the situation with the information given by the ADP.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u398	After the pensions increased!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u399	The amount of pension increases, etc. They belong in the field of publishers, but they are directed at eleven million people, so they are not jokeless to laugh, but they are stories to cry. And in the blue-collar pensions in young people, the average pension from 756, went to 612 euros from you, young friends. While you are cutting off a pension - it is what Mrs Gennama said here from this step to the debate last week - while you are cutting off her income on an average of EUR 1,000, that is, the twelfth pension, you are now giving him an election allowance to buy a vote. Eleven days before election allowances! I am not saying that it is illegal, because we have no parliamentary elections, but it is eleven days before people's sovereignty is expressed. You're coming to give him the benefits you pay him while, I repeat, you're getting him the twelfth pension. I do not think that by baptizing something, as you have baptized the troika, none of you ever wins. You're not gaining anything. People understand it, they realize you're playing a word game and they don't eat any more spoon. He does not eat another story, as he ate three times with you in 2015 with the three county elections and people say it now, "What we've been fooled by." They say it every day in the media, they say it to us talking to them, they say it all over Greece, men and women. Now let's go see - and I'll close with it - the hundred and twenty instalments. Mrs. Papanatsiou is here. I do not want to ask you today, Mrs Papanatsiou, to ask you any questions, but you are the politician who can confirm how many times I have asked you - sometimes out of the process to be honest - for the hundred and twenty instalments that the taxpayers and the insured need, and always the debate went back and go back. Since when? Since 2017. Why since 2017? Because at the time - Mr Koutsoukos explained it, I have no time to talk about it too - your own arrangement is over. When did your own arrangement start? In 2015. But what did you already do? You had flew into the trash, talking about "slash" then, the 2014 arrangement and you are now coming to say "we're saving you". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me one more minute. First of all, I remember the arrangement that I made in 2010 as Minister of Labour. When you make arrangements for late payment and late payment to taxi and insurance funds, you have to realize that your economy is not working properly. I said from this forefront that I recommend the proposal for a regulation, and I wish we could make a commitment not to repeat it. Because there are also those who regularly pay for their obligations, and the state with these arrangements makes two standards and we all know - especially the State Secretary knows that because of his profession - that too many free professionals are in arrangements to get tax or tax information and then fall back to the same problems. In 2010, 2011, 2012, 2014, the arrangements reached and the three hundred overcrowded were working. They could have reached the scene. You are now coming now, two years late, to tell us that on the eve of your elections it has taken the pain to see these issues and to give the opportunity to doses, which, for the vast majority, is not a hundred and twenty. For a small minority with small debts it is there. It is not possible, then, to stay out of line when you talk about doses. We all need to speak with restraint, because we also have those who are dealing with their issues properly, and in fact we have two standards and two standards, but it is necessary. Since we don't have much growth, you can't help it. You need to help both the market and the citizens. But you're late. You're not serious about tax matters. We have also thought of some provisions not to vote on them, because they have too many injustices. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, these should have been done as facilities measures too long ago. Now, I'm closing. I have realised a long time ago that when you speak to the House on SYRIZA and ANEL, you should not count on addressing political parties that respect you. Many times after our talks, I realize that the one who listens to you is like Lucky Luciano, like Dilliger. He's trying to see through words, what he can say to expose you. Dialogue is a fake. What we have heard so many days and heard here today, an amendment of yours for the seven days of work, should make you a little careful about what you've been saying in the past few days, about a dialogue that you're trying to...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u400	All right, put a perfect one, Mr. Loverdo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u401	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. You're right. Look who's gonna expose the other one. This is your game these days, 11 days before the elections. We denounce both of you. But you cannot take care of the wording, especially when you speak to the House orally, and even to the last party, does not include you with any staff and makes you to pieces. If your amendment says that - which says so - then I wonder why in front of the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u402	What amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u403	This amendment. You weren't here? Didn't you hear what was said?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u404	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u405	The Undersecretary spoke a while ago. When you do the same, you must be very careful when addressing the electorate in such an unfaithful manner with such designations and with such lies each other sometimes. Now, that's my last word...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u406	We've been waiting for her from time to time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u407	May 26 is the day of the crisis. It's no poll day, it's election day. At 26 o'clock every party will make its account. But you are also a government and since your Prime Minister has raised a matter of confidence, we as a Change Movement on 26 at night if we are strengthened - as we expect - and if you lose - as it turns out - then the next day here in Parliament you should tell us how you stand. How will you stand? Because a political man, President-in-Office, who says from this Step that he takes the 26th of the month as a vote of confidence, should see the next day and what are the consequences if the vote is negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u408	You're welcome. We'll run out on the list tonight, so if you can, you know, now respect the times. Now Mr. Petropoulos will speak for a minute, then Mr. Christos Beyialas and we will normally continue unresponsively on the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u409	Mr President, I will not go into what has been said. There's no reason. Of course, it's very serious and I could counteract one by one. I just wanted to see it as a debt to the women of the "Axia" Association who came and watched from the gallery, to welcome and share with them the joy of a great struggle that took place in real and ethos and honesty and proved that together we were able to do something that seemed impossible when we started our first meeting. Thank you, really.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u410	However, Minister, we are not used to talking to the gallery! You don't do unusually, you do unacceptable things.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u411	You're welcome, Mr. Dendia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u412	A diagram of the gallery doesn't work in the Chamber. It's the second time he's done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u413	Mr. Teddy, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u414	Mr President, SYRIZA has nothing to do with parliamentary order. Slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u415	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u416	Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u417	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u418	Mr President, I thought there was a debate - yesterday the Golden Dawn told us - on the subject relating to widows. Because you are a witness, you yourself, of how many efforts we have made when we were a government not to pass such a provision. Once they've been here, how many attempts Mrs. Gennamas has made to get her back. They will not now teach us lessons here, nor will they be addressed in a wicked way, I have learned that they have done something. They were wrong to rectify their criminals!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u419	Good. We're moving on. SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Beyalas, has the floor. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u420	Mr President, this process, in fact, sometimes becomes annoying. And I am appalled, because everyone is intervening, taking the floor, there is no order, there is no provision, and on the other hand, we hear about behavior in here. Honestly, gentlemen, the behaviors you teach in here are such that their characterisations are unacceptable and the modes of operation, since you consider this space to be your home. That's what you think. Not only do you show respect to the temple of democracy, but your behavior is like you're in your living room. It's not like that. Ladies and gentlemen, especially the Opposition, where have you lived in the past few decades? Where were you? To another planet, to another universe, and to tell us what you're telling us in here? The fact that you lived in another parallel universe, however, was indicated by the people, because you are in the opposition. Still four years after you're in Anti-Population, you remain living in another universe. Why are you telling us in here? What are we listening to today in a bill that is commonly accepted by the overwhelming majority of the people? It's positive for all of it. All the bodies in the committees have said so. What do we see here? We see a nervousness. You've lost your temper. You're not talking about the bill at all. You're just referring. And where are you referring? You make an effort and tell us we're misinformed. To do what? To overthrow the conversation, take it elsewhere and prove to us what? You're saying we're misinformed, because the Chief of Officer's Representation says he didn't mean seven days, he meant something else. And I come to ask myself: When he said about social inequality that he is in man's nature, something else he meant? Did the same thing happen and meant something else when it came to elastic forms of work? Did something else mean again about the eighth, that it's outdated? Anything else he meant for the seven days? Like what he meant today when he said to give administrations of large state hospitals to private individuals to manage them? Ladies and gentlemen, he means what he believes. But you do not dare in your opposition speech, but as a proposal you want tomorrow to take the citizens' vote to govern, you do not dare say your programme. You say that, and when a general noise comes out, you say to us "false them", "they are falsified by SYRIZA", "they are falsifying them". That's the reality. An acro-liberal, dry programme that wants everything to be done to individuals and no social state, no protection of the weak at the mercy of people who can handle this place. We have heard about the arrangements that come in this bill a lot. We heard they failed. This bill has four key points to mention. It refers to arrangements in the insurance funds. All the 100% arrangements are not only in the positive direction but they give enormous breath to all debtors in the insurance funds. It is a regulation for which no one could imagine that it will also have the reduction in insurance contributions and the great reduction in incremental costs. The second part has tax arrangements, where there was an issue with regard to legal entities, entities AE, EU and EE - AE. There is a legal correction of twenty-four doses. I think it could go further, but it is in the positive direction. However, it includes all individual businesses and all taxpayers in the arrangement for up to a hundred and twenty instalments. And we have the third part of the bill, which is the arrangements for the municipalities. A few amendments have been tabled in the bill. I will mention the two basics that VAT is on the focus and food that goes from 24% to 13%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. I would like to make a point to the Ministry about this provision. Immediately, since the measure is to be implemented, there must also be checks to ensure that price reductions are passed, so that we do not find some people saying 'What good! To fools!’. There is also the other amendment that refers to the thirteenth pension, as it is called. However, since yesterday and today you have been trying to prove to us that it is not a third pension but an allowance. It's a law, which has no expiry date, so it's not a single one, it's a continuous one. I would like to say one more thing. Before 2010 before the bankruptcy of the country you brought - and not to say 'crisis', bankruptcy was, you went bankrupt - we had 12 wages and 12 pensions. We still had a Easter gift, a license, a Christmas gift. These are the names of the thirteenth and fourteenth wages or pensions, as we are talking about. It was a leave allowance, a Christmas gift and a Easter gift. We're coming with L.3847/2010 - do you remember who was ruling? - and we have an article redefining the Christmas, Easter and licenses. The Christmas gift went to 400 euros, 200 euros of Easter and 200 euros of permission. And then comes Law 4093/2012. Do you remember, gentlemen, who ruled? This law said that the allowances of holidays, Christmas, Easter and leave are being abolished. What are you telling us? These reductions and this abolition are coming us and we are giving today. And you come and blame us, because we give the thirteenth pension, the Easter allowance along with the summer allowance for the small pensions entirely. For the rest, let's see what happens by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u421	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u422	I wanted to say this about restoring the truth and leaving no doubt as to what is happening. The point is, you're screaming two days and you're not talking about the tampering, about the bill, but tomorrow you're going to vote on it. After you vote, gentlemen, your Vice-President cannot say from here on a channel: "We will abolish it. We do not accept it.' Mr Vorides, the parliamentary representative, cannot say to ERT1 last night that he was at the meeting and said: 'When we vote, we respect it and we will continue', and today he says other things. Make it clear what you're going to do and don't make fun of the world! Ladies and gentlemen, the panic that gets into you is because you see in the world every day that citizens see positive measures. And that's not all. It is also the fact that there is a real hope that what they had coming out of the memorials will see a white day. They see her on the white day with the SYRIZA government. And because you're afraid that on May 26, the news will be bad for you - and we'll see what you'll do internally in your party with your Chief - so you're showing up with this nervousness here and with these threats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u423	Thank you, too. Mr Maria Antoniou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u424	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today in the bill that we are discussing in the Tsipras version of "Tsovola, give it all", the last great vagina of the Prime Minister in his attempt to deceive Greek women and Greeks once more and to mitigate as much as he can surely defeat the upcoming elections. It is a government and a Prime Minister who, for four years, has been fiercely taxing all Greeks, are actually coming to fund their election campaign today, with taxes collected by them. He is a Prime Minister who, after considering the hundred deaths in Matty as a trivial detail of history, decided to rest on her own elites, away from the indiscriminate gazes of the ordinary people he continues to deceive. He is a prime minister with Polakis who is coming today to share allowances outside the polling centres. This is a government on a run-up, which has now not even made progress in an action that strengthens growth to the benefit of many, and which is now coming to put the dilemma 'or the elites or the many'. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, presently put the same dilemma as far-right across Europe? After all, your hatred of liberal democracy and its institutions unites you. And who puts the dilemma? It puts it in a government which was almost "Philippineza" of the oligarchs of Greek and foreign. Although Tsipras himself has answered the dilemma, I think. She prefers marines, cigars and sweet life. The government, therefore, in four years' time it dismantled the middle class, kneeled the free professionals and businesses by overtaxing and extermination insurance contributions and bleeding out pensioners. You broke all the records. We have had twenty-seven new taxes and seventeen pension cuts and contributions increases. So this same government is coming today, twelve days before the elections, with a tune of thousands of Polakises returning a very small part of what has been costing Greek citizens over the five years of its catastrophic governance. You took out the pensioner with reductions in pensions for the main and secondary workers. You have fallen from the low pensioners over 1 billion, Mr. Petersburg, from the CSCE. Or am I wrong? Mr. Petropoulos isn't here. She's Mrs. Ahchioglu, but she's not listening. You deprived them of more than 750 million with a health contribution. And now you're returning 800 million in an election. Good thing your election representatives of SYRIZA do not share them in files outside the polls with the ballots.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u425	That's how you did it!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u426	I'm telling you that two hundred and fifty thousand of our fellow citizens have not yet been retired. What do you have to tell us about this? While the new pensions with the new Katrugalos law are reduced by 40% compared to the pensions of the old pensioners. You raised VAT on the focus from 13% to 24%. You removed Greek citizens with over 2 billion euros and now you bring it back to 13%, leaving out the most important piece of soft drinks and coffee. Now let's go to the tax-free. You were electorally committed to raising it to 12,000 euros. Not only did you not, but instead you voted for two tax reductions without giving up, as the Minister had promised, the Minister responsible. Obviously the word "binding" is a unknown word for you. So, ladies and gentlemen, today you will also confirm the size of your hypocrisy. If you do not vote on our amendment not to apply tax reductions, you will be deprived of a pension by all pensioners and a monthly of the low-payers who have so far paid no tax at all. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You will also give me a minute, Mr President. Thank you. For example, those who are paid the minimum wage, in a few months' time, with your own tax reduction, will see them disappear as much increase this year. They'll lose the EUR 279. Similarly, a low pensioner of EUR 750 per month loses EUR 442 and a low wage of EUR 800 loses EUR 462. So that means reducing the tax on the EUR 5,600 that you have legislated. Aren't the memos over? Why don't you vote for our amendment? With regard to the multi-advertised regulation of the hundred twenty-dollars, which the Greek people expected, after you increased the private debt from 85 billion to 140, you are bringing it into a regulation that runs out of ideology and vote. You bring a hundred and twenty doses for natural persons, which will actually be around sixty and seventy, and only eighteen that you have now done twenty-four for business. Why not a hundred and twenty for business? Can I answer you? Enterprises don't vote. This is raw mockery.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u427	Please, Mrs. Antoniou, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u428	All colleagues have spoken more. You'll give me one more minute. I shall conclude, Mr President. This is therefore a raw mockery, as it is known that most companies are red from debts and are already integrated into fixed 12-dollar debt arrangements. In other words, we are talking about additional 12 instalments. And, of course, there is no care, no provision for consistent taxpayers and consistent insurance. But I couldn't expect anything better than you. All of you have built political careers in the 'I'm not paying' movement. In conclusion, the New Democracy sees every day in contact and in talks with the citizens and the Greek people, because it can and can speak with the Greek people, the great catastrophe you have caused and even those crumbs that we are voting on today have become necessary. That is why we shall vote for these measures. Greek citizens, however, are not indigenous to share beads and mirrors five days before the elections. Greek citizens do not suffer from oblivion. They remember well and they have full knowledge of the total destruction from you in every area of Greek society. You'll understand that in less than two weeks. The Greek citizens will tell you. They know that from their own overtaxation, you now come to make the known "with a foreign memorial column". And on Sunday, May 26th, the Greek people will make you the Memorial and show you the door of exit, shouting "Enough! So far!'
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u429	Thank you. The next speaker is Mr Dimas, Member of the New Democracy. Mr. Dimas, I ask you to keep the time for everyone to speak tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr President. In my five-minute speech, I will focus on two main issues which I think concern society as a whole. The first is about private debt, the second about available income. Let's go to the private debt first. Private debt for the days of Tsipras government has reached more than EUR 104.3 billion. The accident is that more than 40% has been created on your own days. In just four and a half years you have succeeded with the policy of overtaxation to create more than 40% of private tax debts. We have reached the point that we have more than four million tax debtors, of whom - listen - over 2,2 million debtors owed up to EUR 500. It's really sad, but it's an achievement of your own government. In fact, I am tabling the Minutes and the document that proves my words. [[At this point, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second issue, with regard to private debt, is about the contributions due to the insurance funds, where the late payments to the insurance funds have reached more than 35.3 billion and almost one and a half million citizens owe us to the insurance funds. Consider that only since 2018 over 3,8 billion debts have been added and more than two hundred and five thousand insurance debtors have been added. Let me testify to the Minutes and the debts to the insurance funds. [[At this point, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The third question, with regard to private debt, is about non-performing loans. Non-performing loans, again for your own days, have reached 81.8 billion euros, where about 45% of the loans are non-performing loans. You realise that there is an explosive mixture where private debt is sufficient to be at 221.5 billion, and unfortunately this is an achievement of your own policy. You are bringing an arrangement for the hundred and twenty instalments which, if you were responsible for the government, you should have brought it to the first months of your administration. Unfortunately, it's very little and at the wrong time. If you really wanted to face the private debt, you would have done it much earlier, so that you do not charge the whole of Greek society with your policy. I submit to the Minutes and details of the bank debts. [[At this point, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now let's go to the second part. The second part is the citizens' income. I want to tell you that the only year, in the last six years, that we have had an increase in the citizens' available income, was between 2013 and 2014. It was when the New Democracy and Prime Minister, Antonis Samaras, had reduced VAT to the focus from 23% to 13%, which you will now do five years later. It had also reduced insurance and employers' contributions by 5%. It had reduced the solidarity tax by 30%, the heating oil tax and introduced other tax reductions. We have reached the point, however, with your policy of nine in ten households not being able to save the next year or 1 euro, one in two households having as the main source of income the pension, one in two households, their monthly income being only sufficient for nineteen days a month, and one in two households having deferred or delayed receiving medical advice because of economic reasons. I am presenting in the Minutes the GATT report showing this information. [[At this point, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In closing my speech, the question is: Which Greece do you envision? I think this question is answered by the Greek citizens in their daily lives, where the Soviet-type economy you have built does not work and does not lead to the required result. Unfortunately you have criminalised business and profitability and I invite you to decribe it. We cannot rely on allowances. What the Greek economy needs is incentives for investment and new sustainable jobs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Twenty seconds, Mr. President. Unfortunately, you are now bringing the so-called thirteenth pension, a ragged election allowance. I will ask you: if it is a third pension, why is it not whole? Could anyone go buy half a pair of shoes or half a book? In the same way, you cannot give half the pension. All you do is, because of the European elections, try to give an extra electoral allowance. You've been making fun of Greek citizens for five years. You won't make fun of them for a long time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u431	Thank you. We shall proceed with the next speaker, Mrs Arabatzi, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u432	Have you changed the list?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u433	I, Mr. Lappa, received this list. I didn't format him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u434	What are the next names?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u435	The next three names are Mr. Lappas, Mr. Skouricos and Mrs. Rapt. Please, Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that a government has been coming thirteen days before the European elections to vote on pre-election relief measures, not for the people, but for its own. Yes, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are voting for your election account, what you will say at the cafe in a few days' time, in the hope of turning the negative climate against you at all. I'm sure you didn't get hurt for many. Your own pain and great defeat that comes, you are trying to reduce by the measures you bring, of course mocking and underestimating the citizens. At the top, of course, the famous thirteenth pension in SYRIZA lies. You obviously remembered your incredible talent in baptism and with enthusiasm, baptize a purely election allowance for pensioners as a thirteenth pension, which you will grant, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? But it was only by chance six days before the European elections. At 20 we pay, we vote at 26. And it is such that you are going back to EUR 800 million, while the cost of a real thirteenth pension is EUR 2.2 billion, when for four consecutive years you have taken up EUR 3 billion from their pension - EUR 750 million a year, 2% from the cut-off to the mains and 6% from the supplementary pension - without, of course, forgetting the reproach of a so-called left-wing government, the reproach, of course, of the abolition of the CSR by the low pensioners of EUR 1 billion, the patronage of which you, Mr. In the face of this dull anti-pension attack, therefore, we understand that every euro that comes back is valuable, which is why as a party of responsibility, unlike you who voted against what was positive legislation, we will vote for the grant of this allowance. At the same time, however, we have an obligation to tell the citizens the truth and to reveal the real name behind Syrian baptism. And the name of this "electional election allowance" and not a thirteenth pension. And if the way it was made was classic with the old postman, I have absolutely no doubt that in the file you would also put Eurobonds of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u437	ERE did this and your resignation!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u438	You are capable of the greatest pheasantness, Mr. Beyala! And don't complain.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u439	Your party did this. Along with the trees!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u440	The second measure you are calling on us to vote on, you who are shouting, is to reduce VAT on food and focus from 24% to 13%. Who, Mr. Beyala, went 13% to 24%? But of course the SYRIZA government with the ANELs, don't forget, when you receive it at 13% from the "bad" Samara government. And why did you do it at 24%? But why did it take the great half of 2015 - you do not want to remember these - where you would rip the memorials with a law and an article that would hit the bullies and dance the markets that you would change Europe and eventually change you completely and change the lights to the Greeks, to say it simply and populously. And you are now coming four years later, and you are reducing it to the level that you have received it, and of course with exceptions, hence the New Democracy's amendment that you are not accepting and celebrating? So you took 2.8 billion euros from the citizens, you come and return them just 260 million euros, and you come here and you interact and celebrate? On the other hand, you are triumphant to increase the minimum wage - a law passed by the New Democracy - which must be said to be implemented by two years of delay, Mr Ministers of Labour. But what do the FBI's official records say? That there also fell the ballot SYRIZA, since in 2016 the average salary was 811 euros, before taxes and after the insurance contributions, decreased in 2017, further down to 769 euros in 2018. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Will you give me, Mr President, the one minute you have given everyone else? Not to repeat the disappearance of the middle-class, the one you are ideologically opposed, with the twenty-seven new taxes, the great insurance contributions, the rabies attack on entrepreneurship. At the same time, you are not making a fuss about the New Democracy amendment, not to apply the tax reduction that you yourself, together with the ANELs, of course, voted with both hands in 2018. So take a position, Mr Beyala, which, with a narrow voice, is yelling at. Will you vote on this amendment, yes or no? Because if the reduction applies, the pensioner of EUR 750 will lose EUR 342 for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u441	Don't act like pensions!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u442	While for private sector workers you don't give a damn, the loss will reach up to half of their wages. Finally, with regard to the much-advertised regulation of up to a hundred twenty instalments - not a hundred 20 instalments - as a serious and responsible party, of course, we welcome it, even though incomplete and incomplete. Incomplete, firstly, because there is nothing for consistent debtors and businesses, which you continue to treat as under-ages.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u443	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u444	Secondly and more tragic - yet another demonstration of your entrepreneurship ideal - the regulation provided for only eighteen - in the eighteenth century, you have now made twenty-four payments for businesses, while the debts of small and medium-sized enterprises to tax and insurance funds have been poured out, leading to the despair, the locks and the tails of the unemployed. But you are the enemy of healthy business, you are advocating entrepreneurship, you dream about Greece in the Anniversary Policies of the CRLs. Well, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, there have been thirteen days to misinform, mud, move fast news, blackmail, and, of course, promise. But on the night of May 26, the game is over. And you're not saved with a miracle. And because in his election panic, the Prime Minister caught in his mouth and in Auntie, remember a phrase: "Telete!" Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u445	Plus four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u446	We'll see about it at 26!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u447	Before I give the floor to Mr. Lappa, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and three educational sessions of Karousadas. The House, guys, welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is tabling its report on the proposal from the President of the Greek Parliament "To amend the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Party of Parliament (PEP 106 A/24-6) as applicable". And now Mr. Lappas, a member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u448	Thank you, Mr President. Bearing in mind one of our good fellow citizens these procedures which have been taking place in the House over the last week and today, I would say that the political forces and the entire political system have been taught little by the experience of the great social and economic adventure of the last ten years. Listening to Mrs. Arabatzis, and before Mrs. Anthony here from the Stepma to have the fingers permanently raised, to denounce even in a defiance, heavier to the left government of SYRIZA, at the expense of SYRIZA colleagues, at the expense of the SYRIZA ministers, without feeling that they handed over a country to absolute bankruptcy, which may not now be doing so, because you want too little time to break down, but to build up a multitude. And you demolished in a unique art in a very short time. At least a thought, a retraction, a contraction is not necessary from your resignation, as to what you have brought in and brought about in that country?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u449	You abolished the memos with a law and an article!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u450	Anything? Are you innocent pigeons? Are you clean and innocent of blood? So who is responsible for the country's social and economic bankruptcy? The government trying to salvage what can be saved? Is that what you're telling us? Anyway. I'm leaving it. And I'm saying that why? Why not come tomorrow to the conference or the two-day conference to interpret why the citizen who listens to us turns his face from the political system and why there is a representation crisis. Because you're so honest. That's not what you dare say. In any case, at least in this debate some of your representatives and colleagues, such as Mr Vorides, are honest. He's the only one who's really given a completely ideological reason. That's his ideological burden and he says it with absolute honesty. And let's see what it says. He was talking about the left account. All right, man doesn't have it, he doesn't want it, he doesn't like it! But does he want to forbid the ideas on the left, in fact by seeing a party on the left? We have to tell him that once the great Greek philosopher, Kastoriadis, said that the Left is not just a party or a body. It's a way of thinking that you can't understand and you'll never understand. Let's go down. I have seen some concepts here in the debate that has been distributed. You're accusing us that we're supposed to be caught by executive phrases and your Chief and we're making them make news, etc. So let us see some of the concepts that have been involved in the political debate in the last few days: insurance Pinochet, business contracts that are absolutely necessary, over the eight hours, unnecessarily the Christmas gift, which leads to the lazyness, as your Chief said, seven days of work this week is what times are imposing. All of this is forged as new ideas from your Chief. I have to tell you that it's not a new idea at all. It is the account of Thatcher and, indeed, political forces in Europe and in the world, have attempted and attempted to enforce them so far both since the 1990s and the 2000s. Also, by listening to you here with such a veil, with such fanaticism to denounce our own legislative initiative and at the end to say 'welcomes are', you reminded me of something that we lawyers sometimes see, when we have a client who is accused of excitement, because it offends elements of someone else's personality. He then comes to the audience and says: 'Mr. President, I understand and appreciate the man and I respect him'. He says it's the one who was excruciating before. Well, after you exaggerate this piece of legislation, you come to the end to say that you are under arrest and appreciate it. You will vote in favour of this, and you will not, because you understand that with one non-vote, the political cost will sweep you. I mean something else. Who will judge whether, in fact, a legislative initiative resolves and meets basic social needs? Of course the operators of the productive economy, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, free tradesmen, farmers. Do you want to see what announcements were received yesterday and the day before yesterday by their representatives for the bill? They were fierce. I'm saying this mainly for the people of the JRC. If we must not take into account - it says - social reality, who will express it? Aren't business and production operators going to express it? Anthems and patrons for this legislative initiative! If you now want the New Democracy side, see the announcement of the banking colossus, Citigroup, what it says about how it will positively affect production and the economy, such a bill and then make your criticism. Did you take this evidence into account? You're not receiving them, and you know why? Because if anyone suffers from political cataracts and ideological blindness, he can't see beyond his nose. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. Since there has been a lot of talk lately about your ideological and political view, that what we say about equality is nothing and for you is only the concept of equal opportunities, I say to you: this bill is not considered part of an idea, social justice? Is it a clue, it's a account, is it a factor, a reason for the social state? No one's imposing it. No one's questioning it. Are these measures not strict for the economically strong and favourable for the economically weak? This is the social state. That's social justice. Is it not aimed at the development of the social state and its principles? Doesn't he defend and extend labour rights? Even though - I am now addressing the JRC's partners - does it not contribute to full employment? In a general sense, does not it oppose your normal and coherent policy and economic proposal, the wild neoliberal principles, perceptions and proposals? All of this is included in this bill. Why didn't your Chief suggest it to the interview the other day? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. Because he's just a proclaimed neoliberal, with what that means and he means, and besides what Mr. Mitsotakis doesn't say, his friend Mr. Weber says. That account we heard from Mr. Mitsotakis what is it? It is hard competition in the joy of solidarity, which means that the welfare state, labour rights, full employment and the legal tax system are seen as obstacles - it says - to the development of investment. It is obvious that with social justice Mr Mitsotakis means that he will guarantee the fairness of the strongest, the most capable, the unscrupulous, the hard, the cynic. This is happening internationally and not only in our country and in Europe and throughout the world, under the protection of neoliberal economic policy and ideology. And it is confirmed by the huge scandals in the private and public sectors, the overcompensation of 80% of world wealth in 1% of the world's population and the enormous disparities that are, unfortunately, growing. Mr President, Mr Mitsotakis speaks of equal opportunities. Equal opportunities without everyone having the chances is a glaring inequality. We are a few days before the European and self-government elections and citizens will seriously think about who serve their own interests and think and do what Abraham Lincoln proposed: "The vote is stronger than the sphere. With the bullet you can kill your enemy, with the vote you can kill the future of your children." And the Greek people will think about this, because, among other things, they do not want the jungle of neoliberal policies, which the Romans expressed with the "homo homini lupus", "man for man", but will implement and in his mind have the lead in the way: "All money is human".
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u451	We are going with the next speaker, Mr. Skourikos, MP of SYRIZA. Mr. Darkness, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to the steadfast attack by the Vice-President of the New Democracy at Mrs Gara, to our colleague from Evros, who spoke about the popular layers, the poor people, the farms that have trusted SYRIZA. By attacking it, he said that New Democracy is also based, voted by farmers, poor people. Indeed, yes, that's how it was. These people gave them 45% and 46%. It seems, however, that at least part of these layers has withdrawn their confidence, because 46% became 28%, while another small party of 4%, when it was addressed and given solutions and confidence, the people brought it to 36% and 37.2%. I say these because sometimes, in our agony to make a triumphant speech and speech, we may use arguments that are at our expense. So in discussing today the bill on debt settlement to social security providers and other provisions, we must note that, of course, governments must ensure that the state is properly functioning in all areas, but that their lasting and primary concern should be to care for the lives and daily lives of citizens. This effort by the Prime Minister, the Ministerial Council and all those who move around the governance of the country is not being carried out vacantly. The qualitative and significant quantitative relief measures are calculated on the basis of the economic situation at the moment in the country. By SYRIZA taking over the country's rule - along with ANELs initially, on its own now, relying on MPs who do not belong to its parliamentary group - he accepted the weight of the inheritance of a drug-drug field. The mismanagement of economics and not only during the decades of government of state-owned bipartisanism, New Democracy - PASOK, has led to the collapse of the economy, bankruptcy and supervision of our partners. We've received a country destroyed. We have promised to end the memorials and we have done so, to make up for the social state again, and we are trying to do so with constant relief measures already, like what we are discussing today. We are therefore voting for this bill with the hundred and twenty instalments for debts to tax and insurance funds, VAT reduction and others, such as the abolition of a solidarity levy, the grant of insurance contributions to young people by 80%. Does the opposition welcome these measures? One place accepts them, another holds with half-blooded and cold hearts and another declares a simple observer as usual. The New Democracy is in the unpleasant position of half-accepting, therefore, the obvious philosophical measures and doing so with cold, as I said, heart, because such measures are outside its political field. They are measures to rectify the social state, i.e. measures directly contrary to its ideology, which is neoliberalism. Ladies and gentlemen, I am awkward and panicked by the opposition - I have succeeded in the New Democracy, in other words - attempting to devaluate these new philosophical measures. They insist that the thirteenth pension is a pre-election service. So when you cut pensions, it was a structural measure. Now that we're returning them, we're returning them, it's a pre-election service. I'm sorry, but how many postgraduates do excellent people need with the best resumed resumers in the country to understand that if a measure is voted on as permanent, it will be permanent? In other words, it will not be a single payment, but it will be given every year. The thirteenth pension will be given in both 2019 and 2020 and in all subsequent years, unless a government comes to abolish it. However, SYRIZA may increase it, but it may be abolished. Mr Mitsotakis, who was described as a shameful election allowance, explicitly refused to guarantee it. Whatever you say here, the video to Mr. Papadakis at "ANT1" is available everywhere on the Internet. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, I will finish. So if these measures are at stake by someone, this is not the SYRIZA who implements them, but the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis and their liberal obsessions. Mr.Mitsotakis called the thirteenth pension and at the same time announces the seven days of work, denounces PPC, opening a way for private individuals, talks about incentives for private medical care. Move the urban myth that we hurt the middle class. But how can you hurt someone who's already been beaten? You did it! According to ELSTAT, you broke into the middle class and these hundred and twenty doses will help her decisively. Of course, Mr Mitsotakis has recently introduced a new model of vocational guidance. The children from the Dove must become coolers. Wonderful, good! With these and those, then, we understood that, Mr Mitsotakis, we inspired it. With New Democracy, the worst is coming, but because we are struggling for the best, we will vote in favour of the new measures that are all for the benefit of the Greek people and will continue the course for the full recovery of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u453	Thank you, too. We shall proceed with Mrs Rapti, Member of the New Democracy. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in the past four years, against the verbal confession of your ministers, Mr Juliarakis and Mr Kyritsis, you consciously kneeled the middle class with taxes and social security contributions, conducting an unreasonable class war against her, exterminating the workers and dismissing their debts to the state. However, you have not only struck the income of Greek workers, but also the vulnerable social groups, since you have dramatically reduced the pensions seventeen times, you have shrank the widow's pensions, which now after years of struggles of women who have been stifled outside the Ministry of Labour, increase them sharply. You have disappeared from the ESS, you have deducted EUR 48 million from three-tiers and multiples, and you have usually made the loss of part-time work prevalence of EUR 320 per month. And as if not all of this were enough, with the Katrugalo law you dramatically cut all new pensions, you removed from all new pensioners 35% of the main pension and 45% of the supplementary pension. Proven, that is, you have removed the twelfth pension from all the new pensioners and you are now coming to get them the twelfth. Because with the reduction in tax, which you have voted on, we will all pay an extra tax of EUR 600 and, indeed, both the low-payers and the low-payers, who will lose another monthly income. That is why it is necessary that the relevant regulation should be removed immediately, with the acceptance of the relevant amendment tabled by the New Democracy. And as if not all of this were enough, on the one hand you have suspended the extradition of two hundred and fifty thousand pensions and on the other you are delaying the repayment of your debts to the private suppliers of the public, so that the exorbitant surplus of the Greek people will appear as an achievement, which will allow you - for as long as you are still in the government - to spend it in your party interest. It is no coincidence, therefore, that in the years of your administration the austerity has been so deepened, and the debts of our fellow citizens have been launched at the astronomical sum of EUR 145 billion of the EUR 75 billion that you received when you started running. And while society and productive bodies have been challenging for years, asking you to change policy mix and ease their shoulders from unbearable tax burdens, you in one night bring the bill under discussion with a series of fragmentary arrangements with a strong pre-election smell. Why else can one justify fragmentary provisions that you recalled exceptionally, just two weeks before the elections, and even within the 24-hour period following the revelations of the Prime Minister's luxurious holidays, in secret, to a big boatman, even after the tragedy in Matti? But let us come to the famous European election allowance, which you have been baptized in the thirteenth place. The pan-Hellenic thing is fighting! Once again, you have made the meat fish, because for over 50% of the pensioners the micro-retired sums you will give are insignificant compared to those you have deprived them and certainly do not touch even the amount of their main pension. The fact that you have decided to give them a half a Christmas present before the European elections reveals your panic and your attempt to buy their votes. The allowance, however, you know that, is not a thirteenth pension. Mr Tsipras also admitted that, because for an additional pension, EUR 2.2 billion would be needed, and now you will only make EUR 800 million available. So who are you kidding? However, we have said from the outset that we will vote for the allowance, as all support for the income of the low-retired, of which you have cut EUR 900 million from the CSR, is - even so - necessary. And we are now coming to the VAT arrangement. Do you really think, Mrs. Papanatsiou, that citizens have a memory of goldfish? Or do you think you're going to make them silver with benefits they had since 2013, before your own government's trip, which was all it did to remove them? Who does not remember that you received VAT at 13%, increased it to 24%, and now you are reducing it to the level you received it, but having already repelled from the citizens EUR 2.8 billion? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So, do you want to be congratulated? But you also give it a shrinking supply, since VAT does not decrease in many species that touch more than 55% of the total value of VAT transactions. However, do not deceive yourself, citizens also have memory and judgment. You will see it very soon on the night of the elections on 26 May. Finally, with regard to the hundred and twenty instalments, it is clear that with the dramatic launch of the debts at EUR 145 billion it is necessary for these debts of our fellow citizens to be adjusted. However, their regulation is case-by-case, as it sets income criteria even for small and relatively small debts, it is precise, as the debtors are charged at a rate of at least 5%, when the public by means of a provision that you have passed is charged at a rate of 3% for their own debts and not to private individuals. It's two yards and two weights that you're punishing the citizens. It is clear that small and medium-sized enterprises do not have the same number of doses and have stricter conditions than natural persons. And that's why the New Democracy is asking for this country's productive ranks to be strengthened and the doses to be increased to twenty. In conclusion, Mr President, I will add a reason for the government's sensitivity to the institution of the family, which is being celebrated worldwide tomorrow. The bill does not provide any provision at all to tens of families with more than three children, while the country is threatened with a demographic collapse. It is therefore necessary to add a sub-institution to Article 98(1) so that, for the large number of families who wish to join the arrangement, the rate per unit for the fourth child and for each additional dependent child also by one unit should be reduced. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion is incomplete and outright election. For many times, it is attempting to defraud citizens. The even incomplete return to the acquisitions that the Government of New Democracy has handed over to SYRIZA, and he has destroyed, is not an achievement, but is not even a project that SYRIZA has legalized. One is the positive contribution to the location that has been left as the only option for the government: to direct national elections following the European elections. Only with a government of New Democracy will we be able to increase, with the costly reductions we have detailedly announced, the real income available to Greek pensioners and workers in both the private and public sectors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u455	Thank you, too. Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u456	The next Monday, just five days before the elections, SYRIZA will give what he calls a thirteenth pension, i.e. the election pocket, in order to buy his political rescue, to avoid his collapse. Whatever SYRIZA does by the elections on May 26, but the parliamentary elections are not saved by the categorical. Much more is not saved by the policies it applies to our national economy, the situation of which - to be fair - is not just the responsibility of SYRIZA, but all the parties of the constitutional arch, that is to say, the Memorandum of New Democracy and the PASOK Memorandum. The Golden Dawn will not say 'no' to any beneficial measures. It is questionable, however, whether they will be able to reach 20 doses, together with the measures, to the millions of our bankrupt compatriots, the unemployed, the Greeks who closed their businesses, their shops, move and meet their obligations. I would therefore like to denounce the hypocrisy and analgesia of the alleged left-wing SYRIZA and the prosperous in international and local loan sharks and capitalist Prime Minister, who celebrates in television attendances for the counter-paid which he will of course receive again by reducing duty-free. Mr Tsipras says to the pensioners of EUR 500, to whom CSCE cut them - that is, EUR 203 for twelve months, so EUR 2,760 a year - that he will give them this EUR 500 bonus, because it is an election allowance and the Prime Minister has admitted it. It's not a third pension. The Prime Minister in a recent interview said: 'Yes, it is an allowance, but we call it a third pension'. So, sad once again, Mr. Tsipras, the Prime Minister. And I wonder: is it possible for these literally imprisoned pensioners to vote again SYRIZA or New Democracy? And I'm putting the New Democracy in, because it's about it. With the New Democracy, let them forget and any hope of electoral benefits could be given. Is it possible, then, for these improper pensioners to vote again for these parties, for the parties that have destroyed and destroyed Greece? And what's the new generation? I shall therefore say that there is a solution for them and for the third age, for those who are afraid of age, because of the past, because of partisanism, because of the habit. There's a solution. Let them take this election allowance - mockery, the allowance that they have multiplely paid with blood and sacrifices and which can be wasted even on road, for travel expenses for the election and everyone in the party to do their duty and to vote for the real power that can house the place, the only force that struggles for the people and their fairs, the only power that has a flag of social justice and national independence, the movement of the Greek people, the People's Association - Golden Dawn. The Prime Minister continues to say, without blushing, on the left and on the right, that SYRIZA is with the many. The bigger the lie, the easier it can be believed. At this point I would like to denounce the procedure, as my competitor, our rapporteur, in this bill, MP Yiannis Sahinides, and repeat what he has told you, that you are not with many, you are with the few. The so-called 'constitutional bow' is with the few. They are with those who now, in a time of crisis, are enriching on the back of the Greek people, with the illiterate capital, capital without a home, the capital of shamefulness, smuggling, the capital of drugs. I therefore challenge the next speakers and the parliamentary representatives and the SYRIZA and the New Democracy to say why no one mentioned the updated - updated in October 2018 - lists of the Independent Public Income Authority. Of these officially indicate that 87.5% of the debtors, about three and a half million Greek debtors, owed and owed only 2.3% of the debt, i.e. some 2.4 billion euros. On the other hand, seventy-nine debt-supply debt-supplys over 100 million owes a total of 32.7%, i.e. around 34 billion euros. However, another thousand two hundred and fifty-four debtors have debts of between EUR 10 million and EUR 100 million and owes EUR 28.3% of the debts, i.e. some EUR 29 billion. The question that remains unanswered is: Who are all these? Who are these thousand two hundred and thirty-three debtors who owe 63 billion euros? What measures does the government intend to take to this end? What does Qualified Opposition propose? The government has, of course, not answered us so far. You don't have to take any measures, because you don't want to take any measures. You're not going against the bosses. These few are protecting the 'constitutional bow'. 12 people cannot owe what the rest of the Greek people owes and no government to take their place, not to do anything. Ladies and gentlemen, there are articles which we have to deal with positively, since this makes it easier for a large number of citizens to do so. However, there are articles which need to be amended and improved. For example, I refer here to two Articles 19 and 21 concerning widow's pensions. These two articles cover the unfavourable injustices due to your bill. They were designated under Law No.4387/2016 in conjunction with the implementation of Law.4499 of November 2017, pensions due to death, even under EUR 150. The migrated insurers who have had to fight and fight professionally and normally paid contributions to the insurance funds. The widows of these insured have been held hostages for three years in the struggle of the parties, in SYRIZA's smuggling, hostages of temporary pensions. We have cases - and this is a reality and note with - widow's pensions being temporary and paid for thirty-three months. Know that the beneficiaries of these temporary pensions will not get your famous election allowance by means of the measures that are being voted on today. Also, unfortunately, until now, you have not said a word about the retrospectives that these widows and orphans are entitled to. You want to put them in a judicial adventure, which you will eventually lose, but how much you care about, because you won't be government then. Reading and saying what I told you about the case of widow’s pensions, I wonder how much analgesia I can describe this left-wing analgesia, how much analgesia you have on real social issues. And you show it to a vulnerable social group, you who are on holidays to seafarers of oligarchs, who bring up Cuban cigars and literally blow the smoke of your indifference and indifference to the real problems of the diabetic Greeks, who are diagnosed with your own responsibility, because it is your fault. You yourself are symcratic and neo-democratic. You don't want a strong people, you don't want proud Greeks. You want the people who are subjected to paying their taxes, to be charity to your propaganda, to the party, to the rousfetti, and to throw an outburst and baptize them "everything." On this point, Mr President, I would like to refer to what happened this morning in the Senate Chamber at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign and Defence, in which the ratification of an agreement between Greece and Skopje was discussed with the opening of new border routes. On behalf of the New Democracy, Mr Koumoutsakos said - and I am bringing it to you from the Minutes - that 'in relation to relations with the neighbouring country, with Skopje, officially Northern Macedonia...'. Koumoutsakos said "North Macedonia". Not officially, Mr. Kumucaco. For us, Macedonia is one and it is only Greek! And because there are various "false" hypocritical, pseudo-patriots of the party of Courides and the Tatsopoulos of the New Democracy, who braggedly claim the vote of the Greek people, I would like to say that Samaras is not the safe man of the Macedonian people, making an internal opposition to his party, not to squash and not to make us the Macedonian supporter of the complex name, because in his case the popular saying "better to get your eye out of you despite the name". And his name has come out: False-Macedonian Samaras. Mr President, I also take my second language briefly. Because few people have now referred to the major national issue and to developments, I have two news to convey to you. One news is about the OHIM. They arrived at the indiscretion of the OHIM to justify yesterday's Turkish airstrike in the Chios of a plane, which surpassed all kinds of fantasy. The Chief of HNDGS, for those who don't know it, is General Christodoulou. They argued that the Turk lost his orientation, the Turk was lost, and that's why he flew over Chios. We hope, when they bomb a Greek island - I despise it, because, as we go with this government, this will happen too - not to tell you then by the OHIM that it was bombed by the mistakes of Turkish pilots. The second news is about revealing the same instrument - and I mean 'PRONEWS' - and not to tell me that I am talking to the Internet and with information from the Internet, because all the debate on giving a vote of confidence from the Internet started, from the retaliatory responses between Polakis and Kymbouropoulos. In the second news, then, we have a revealing report that has not been disproved, which conveys the anxiety of the military leadership about what is going to happen and what has been established. And while the political leadership, the prime minister recommends temper and avoidance of the challenges - a meeting took place days ago in Maximos for this reason - and he says that we try to have open channels and step up our work on confidence-building measures, Chief of the General Staff tells him - and the Prime Minister remains voiceless and imminent - that: "I do not have the weapons I need to do what I need, but I can still win, on one condition, to strike first. The conflict will not last more than two - three days. I must, however, be able to choose weapons, time and place of involvement, so that any of my forces can function multiplierly. If we take the first blow, the situation will become extremely difficult." Tsipras smacked. Ladies and gentlemen, the blocking war is now unleashing in order to avoid the risks of war in the future in more difficult circumstances. I'm not talking about it. Jack Levy says it in his book "The reduction of power and the blocking war". This move in the blocking war to tell you that it does not necessarily provide for the use of fire, which can be done, if necessary. It provides for the immediate dispatch of military aid, at least in Cyprus, in order to equip Cyprus, to make it a "extra lobster" military in the Eastern Mediterranean, and we have this right. It stems from the Treaty of independence of Cyprus. We are the guarantor of the existence of the Republic of Cyprus. So we should send weapons and whatever it takes in Cyprus, send troops, send air force, send navy, and at the same time vote in favour of the proposal for a Golden Dawn law, which has been tabled since 2012 and provides for the proclamation of the autonomous economic zone. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. This must be done now, because later on, the situation will not be manageable and I fear it will develop into an uncontrolled. I fear that they will also be national injurious and lead to a new 1974. Unfortunately, the abstention of the Greek political staff and especially of the tired Mr. Tsipras will lead us - I despise - to a new national tragedy. The New Democracy will wait for the elections, but in the new 1974, next year will lead to a change of political and state scene, just as it was then. The responsibilities will be fully, justly or unjustly cast on military personnel and Mr. Tsipras will be given the title of "New Ioannides" and Mr. Apostolakis the title of "New Gyziki". In closing and addressing the Greek people, I say this: Wake up! Homeland's in danger. Think Greek, think nationally, strengthen the People's Association - Golden Dawn, the only political power to which the Greek people can hope.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u457	Thank you. We continue with the MP of SYRIZA, Mr. Igoumenides. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what have we heard in this debate again? What kind of toxic political reason is that? Listen to what they say and nobody blushes against the Greek people who listens to us: "After the unnecessary third memorandum, SYRIZA brings measures that are not even close to the 2014 successes of the government of Samara - Venizelos. Give whatever election benefits you want. Wherever it is the time the worst government has ever known the place will be." This is the basic account of the New Democracy. Let us see them one - one: 'After the unnecessarily third memorandum': did I not understand, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, but the first and second Memorandums were needed? That's so much money in your hands! And yet you left the country undisturbed in the clientele and corruption! You spent billions on the Olympic Games and did not manage to build a social state of dignity. You have spent billions on health and yet the public health system has delivered it to the brink of collapse. You have spent billions on the country's infrastructure, which have, however, remained provocative. I wonder: Is it politically incompetent, your political impotence, which led to the first and second memorials, or are these elements of the identity of the State that the conservative party wants? "After the inappropriate third memorandum," you say. We all remember that you handed over the funds, not just empty, but minus. We all remember during the period of 2014 when we waited for the payments from outside to pay salaries and pensions to meet the basic obligations of the Greek state. Was it a 'necessary third memorandum', a result of the 'first time left' manipulations or was it designed and necessary third memorandum, a result of the Samara - Venizelos planning to close the 'left parenthesis' in the political life of the place? You're turning us around, you say, in 2014. Really? Is the license or negative funds itself with EUR 31 billion of the pillow available today? Is it the same damaged insurance system as a viable insurance system that we have today? I don't have time to stand by all the examples. I would just like to say on what Mr Georgiadis said, Mr President, that I left the medicine I still love - I did not accidentally become the doctor I wanted - because of my conscience because I experienced the first-hand exclusions from the public health system of our economically weak fellow citizens. And Mr. Georgiadis had the nerve to ask where we found social sensitivity. The social sensitivity, gentlemen of the New Democracy - and the Golden Dawn spoke about it just now - is not pity. It's not charity tea at the events of the masters of the high society. You cannot have social sensitivity if in your ideological well-being, in your strategy you do not have the goal of eliminating the exploitation of human beings, you do not have the objective of social justice and social equality, you do not oppose the discrimination of people in gender, in the color of skin, in language, in origin. This is where we come from, gentlemen of the New Democracy and Mr Vice-President of the New Democracy, our social sensitivity. Here you will see the foundation for the participation and offer of the Left in social struggles. You have a contradiction to solve, gentlemen of the New Democracy. We took the country out of the memos with a lot of work, with conflicts within and outside the country, but above all with society, the society that we won on the basis of our project. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. I'll be done. You, as a member of the elite, as a member of the few, yes, to take the government, in order to win the majority, must take the vote of the unemployed, you who have reached the unemployment of 30%! You have to take the vote of the youth you condemned him to the unacceptable underpaid wage. You have to take the vote of the man who was financially destroyed by you who, with your policy, destroyed 25% of the country's wealth, you who, if you didn't have a troika, had to invent it. So you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, need beads and mirrors to buy out consciences. You, gentlemen of the New Democracy, need communication fireworks and political bourbon, for the demolition of society's consciences. You need the shiny packaging to hide the grim future you hold for many. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. You who, when you saw an investment magnet in the carved society - regardless of which investment you did not bring to Greece - in these measures that will speed up the growth rate today and relieve people who lifted the main burden to get the country out of the memoranda, you see election benefits. You think the worst government will go away. Yes, I agree with you that we are the worst government in terms of the corruption regime. Yes, we are the worst government the place has ever known in terms of the status of interlocutory. Yes, we are the worst government the place has ever known in terms of allowing far-reaching conditions to which you have condemned workers. We are the worst government the place has ever known for all those who want to deliver health and education to the private sector. However, as with the living, healthy, fighting social forces, with the wider alliance of progressive forces, we have successfully taken the country out of the memorials, so now, despite your efforts, we will successfully move on to the building of Greece of the new era. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u459	Thank you, too. Please, Mr. Dendias, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u460	Ladies and gentlemen, firstly, following the general position here yesterday of the Minister of Finance, I understood that the government's account, the government's effort, is to present today's legislation and the amendments accompanying it as a planned exploitation of a given and budgeted financial area. In other words, it has been trying to give the impression that here we are dealing with a government which, after having taken some unpleasant measures, has succeeded in its work, has led the country to development, and with prior and existing planning, is taking advantage of many of the financial resources created by good public money management. This is government history. Ladies and gentlemen, who can believe that? What calm and reasonable man can believe that? First of all, I will begin by the author of the account, the Minister of Finance, to end up in the same record. Mr. Tsakalotos has a philosopher and nice style of analysis of things. This is due to his education to a large extent. If anyone knows English history, he understands it. You know, in the English civil war, Oxford was under the knights of the king, the Kavaliers, who had a more liberal spirit than Cambridge, who was under the Raodheads, that is, the soldiers of Cromwell who were puritant and much harder on the issues. It prevailed, thus, a little more relaxed spirit, which is usually depicted in the grace and philosophical mood of the Minister of Finance, even though it speaks of things that are neither pleasant nor funny. But beyond the author of the account and of the analysis of its character, let's go to the account itself. Ladies and gentlemen, if that is true, how do you explain the fact that the Prime Minister had to go on account of the well-known history of the waterways running in Zappeion on Tuesday and there announce, without any prior planning, that the last journalist outside this Chamber knows that the whole of the journalist world - that this interview was not pre-planned? So how did the Prime Minister suddenly appear there and start announcing benefits? And how does it explain that a project that was supposed to have existed and was also quantified comes in part as a piece of legislation - with this law on debt regulation, known as 'a hundred and twenty instalments' - and on the other hand - listen to me! - With a number of amendments? Where has previous planning been heard, ladies and gentlemen, serious, existing, quantified to appear in the form of a series of amendments? Have you ever heard of that before? Do you think anyone can ever believe that? In fact, the following amendments - if you would like to take over a little bit. There is the issue of the hundred and twenty instalments in which the New Democracy - we have said it clearly - will vote on it. Any measure brings relief, we support it, even if insufficient, even if it is due to past government errors. There is no need to repeat what SYRIZA has done, to punish society for the mistakes of the government. This arrangement comes after the unsuccessful, unsuccessful 2014 arrangement. Why did the 2014 arrangement not work? Because then SYRIZA was talking about "suffering", about total cancellation of debts. It was the other arrangement in 2015, in which, if the evidence is accurate, 50% or something like that of the debts. We shall therefore vote on it and hope that we have something better here. But now we are going to go to the amendments, and in particular to the amendment by the Ministry of Civil Protection. Of course it's not the product of a design, is it? It's a product of obvious failure of the Ministry. The first part relates to the recognition of all kinds of debts. The so-called sysmi-systics in which a regulation is being introduced which retrospectively legitimises expenditure, which is not quantified here. It doesn't tell the Ministry of National Representation what it's voting for. The other amendment, Amendment No 2172/18, concerns the granting of the beneficiaries of the general pension of the 15th euphemism of the third pension. We shall also vote for this, but let us not be fooled, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a third pension, it is a allowance. Quantitatively this allowance is a few hundred million. To be a third pension, it must have been between 2.2 and 2.4 billion euros. Isn't that right, Mrs. Undersecretary? Therefore, by saying the third pension, we are simply trying to mock pensioners. On the issue of Amendment No 2173/181, which deals with VAT, one or other colleague said so: 'To burn you, Giannis, to grind you with oil'. After creating the problem, by abolishing the proper regulation of the Samara government at the time, which had been reduced overall by the VAT on the focus, now, after five years, a smaller adjustment, which leaves coffee and refreshments outside. Honestly, it will be very interesting to see how this arrangement will be implemented in practice. When one takes a coffee and a cheese pie, the coffee will be in another VAT and in another VAT the cheese. I imagine that the audit bodies will have a very easy task of clarifying it. They will go to the table, they will ask what you eat, they will look at the list and they will impose or not impose a fine accordingly. This is a - so - cute arrangement. Of course, I won't comment on the rebate here. The other regulation of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is also part of the entire government's alleged planning. Actually what we're dealing with here? We are dealing with a regulation which seeks to correct the irreparable, that is to say, the transfer of elements of the cultural heritage, which many colleagues have warned of. At that time, we accepted government assurances that no risk exists, that no element of our cultural heritage is threatened, that no mistake has been made. Although dozens of questions were asked about the property elements of the concession to the ‘superior’, they were never given. And now we are seeing this regulation, which is a complete confession. He is retrospectively trying to rescue what can be rescued, i.e. to name out of transaction and unaccountable property belonging to the State and is between 1453 and 1830. If there were no'superior' concessions, it would be worth asking us to explain what the use of this regulation is, what is the reason why this regulation is coming, absolutely emblematically, in a piece of legislation involving the hundred and twenty instalments? But of course, as SYRIZA says, this can be part of a comprehensive plan. Ladies and gentlemen, I was speaking with journalists earlier and was told this as a way of understanding things. Look, he says, you can't understand this government unless you've read Harry Potter. Because we all live in a real world. Harry Potter is the Muggles world of common people, the world we know. But all of a sudden, you're crossing a mindless wall and entering another world. This is SYRIZA's world. It is a world in which things acquire a magical and different dimension, completely disproportionate to the way that average man, society hires things. In other words, unnecessarily surpluses, the huge expansion of private debt, the outstanding issue of two hundred and fifty thousand pensions, the many problems in everyday life, the management of the public are called a success, as an exit from the crisis, as an acne, as a relief to the average citizen, and we are in turn trying to understand how this reality is compatible with the reality that we live in. And we have another example of this, lastly, ladies and gentlemen, the country's own Prime Minister. The Prime Minister of the country came and told us clearly - I do not think there is any doubt about this - that voting in the European elections is a vote of confidence in his government, clearly and stagnantly. In other words, he said to Greek society that I, as Prime Minister of the country, owe your vote to the European elections as a criterion of accepting or not accepting the government's work. Therefore, what each person understands, the last citizen, not only the Members, from such a position, is that if you disapprove me, it means that I do not have your confidence. When the Prime Minister said this, the measures had not been announced as a whole and I hope that this has not been understood by the Greek society. Apparently, the Prime Minister of the country then made measurements. He saw the resonance or failure of these measures, the measures we are discussing today in Greek society, and he came and changed it. He said that the European elections are a form of polling. From the supreme position, vote of confidence, yes or no, I live or leave, elections or not, you want me to, we have gone to something completely obscene, as if the Greek society were consulted in the polls to give a view of 'en passant' and then it is up to the Prime Minister to understand it, to interpret it, to amend it, to understand it as he wants and to deal with it in any way he judges. If these, ladies and gentlemen, are they not the result of a perception of the coming defeat? I'm done. You will allow me, Mr Loverdos, to repeat what I have said to you in private, with little personal vanity in the Minutes. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u461	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u462	Mr. Loverdos said before that many times when the New Democracy had won the elections, signs with works...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u463	And SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u464	Oh, SYRIZA, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u465	And the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u466	So do we. They were changing signs in works that had been built on his day and he had designed and removed his participation along with the plaque and something else was placed. So I told him outside that this was also when George Papandreou won the 2010 elections. Then I, as a parliamentarian of Corfu, had a strong - let me say it so - involvement in completing the Hospital of Corfu, which exists today, a hospital that had enormous peculiarities. Two contractors had been bankrupt in, one after another - unprecedented in the country's legal conditions! - in fact, without the first to be expelled. Besides, I had honestly operated the first six years of my parliamentary life as construction manager, going two days a week to this hospital, overseeing it as if it were my own home. So when the then Minister of Health, Mr. Loverdos, Mr. Avramopoulos made me a compliment, without knowing it, to put my name on the sign under his name. I didn't deserve it. I was Minister of Justice. So we just lost the elections the first thing that the new administration set up by the government of George Papandreou was to take off the sign and then call on Mr. Loverdos to reopen the hospital and place a sign with his own name, of course, I'm sure in his absence. But, anyway, why am I saying that? For too many times in the wider political scene there is a perception of things that goes beyond democratic rules of operation. And that's what we have to avoid. I come back to the legislature to say: Mr Ministers, this legislation does not promote things, it only partially overturns - and that is what is positive - the harmful consequences of your earlier legislation. We shall vote in principle. We will also ask you, clearly and with a sense of political seriousness, to what we are told by SYRIZA to vote on the two amendments: firstly, to abolish the legislative reduction in duty. Because if this is not voted on, any relief in pensions does not exist, it is obvious. It's just arithmetic, it's not math. It's just an arithmetic of elementary school. What will be deducted from pensioners exceeds what you give them with the allowance. Secondly, the amendment on VAT, which also has the economic logic behind it, for example. Because over the days of the Samara government with this position the state increased and did not reduce its revenue. If you take the overall picture at the time of the increase in active demand created by the reduction of VAT, the Greek State had a profit rather than damage. So we ask you to vote on both of these amendments by showing that, in any case, you want to participate in trying to eliminate the harmful consequences of your earlier legislation. Anyway, if you don't vote for them, after two weeks, we have elections. It's elections. They may be European elections, but they are elections. It is a broad and straightforward illustration of the conception of Greek society and the Greek people, a straightforward implementation of the principle of popular sovereignty. And with good news, I hope that seventeen days after now, we will have the pleasure of discussing again, calling for elections and the new Mitsotakis government to legislate now, if you refuse, not as amendments, but as legislation, the concrete measures that we are proposing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u467	Thank you very much, but because Mr Dendias referred historically to the signs, to be written in the Minutes of the House, I am obliged to supplement, Mr Dendia, and I myself, as Minister of Health and, indeed, to be extra-parliamentary, to have Delor II built the largest hospitals such as Attica and Alexandroupolis. In "Atticon", when it became its foundation, there was a sign, the classic sign of the foundation, which, when it was completed, disappeared. And the workers made one of their own billboards who said who the Prime Minister was and who the Minister was and then placed it. The same happened in Alexandroupolis. In Alexandroupolis the then Metropolitan, Anthimos, said: "Here have been Prime Ministers and have promised the University of Alexandroupolis and you will implement it?" And he was devastated. And that's where the sign's gone. And when I retrospectively protested that, for God's sake, the signs could not be lost, they placed another one who said that with Prime Minister Costas Simitis the Minister Dimitris Kremastinos had me pleaded. But he wasn't Mr. Simitis at the time, Prime Minister, he was Papandreou. That is the situation. And it is good to write these in the Minutes of the House to stop these misery one day. And we shall now proceed with the next speaker, Mr Kavada of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u468	Then who are they, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u469	Then he is the Parliamentary Representative of the Centroon Union, who begged me why he was leaving. And then again we return to the list of MPs where Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Karasmanis is.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u470	There has been a reversal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u471	In the position of Kegeroglou? I see 'Kegeroglu', I do not see 'Karras'. "Kegeroglu" writes. Well, if you've changed, let us know. "Kegeroglu" writes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after being toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of Greeks, twenty-seven students and students and six teachers, from the 3rd Igoumenitsa Municipal School and the Municipal School of Asprocles Sayada. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are on the eve of the elections on 26 May, because of the government's refusal to accept that it is coming to an end. We are here because of the vanity of power, the rulers, who assume that with the bill for the hundred and twenty instalments and the poor allowance they think to share among the pensioners they will be able to limit their electoral defeat. A defeat that they believe can be reduced by handing incomplete works across Greece, mocking the world. A prick who thinks they can stop it with inauguration and humiliating ash in the eyes of the world, like last Sunday in Lefkada with the inauguration of the new hospital. I should also like to talk about the hospital, after the previous people spoke, which was founded, that is, the work of the New Democracy began in 2013, and it was well done, but what you handed over, gentlemen of the government, not as a building, but as a health unit, is far away from what the Lefkadians were expecting.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u473	Mr. Comrade,...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u474	Listen, Mr. Barca. We expected that together with the new building there would be a resumption of health in Lefkada with adequate personnel at all levels. Instead, a few hours - not days - after Mr. Tsipras cut the ribbon several incidents were carried into hospitals in the surrounding areas and fewer patients transferred as - as in the new hospital are fed by the old hospital. These are happening on the island of Lefkada after the opening of the new hospital and the statements of the Prime Minister for the reconstruction allegedly of the social state by SYRIZA. And despite the fact that from these benches and with questions to the Minister I asked to provide for recruitment, for the staff of clinics that would really upgrade public health services in the county. I am tabling six questions that I have tabled since May 2017 in order to function well since the first day of the new Lefkada Hospital that was never answered by the Minister, because he simply did nothing on these issues, so that he can answer the Lefkadians. [[At this point the Member, Mr Athanasios Kavadas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and with this bill you are trying to convince the world that you are ready to relieve them. But reality is different. Because you are the ones who cut the widow's pension four years ago, and now you are electorally bringing them back. You cut off the N.C.E.S. You're cheating on retired people with the famous thirteenth pension. I would remind the Government that, because of its panic, it has rather lost memory that the thirteenth pension was the annual payment of an entire pension. He had no percentages or scales of calculation. So, how do you talk about a thirteenth pension? At the same time, you have retired for four years from the pensioner's wage through the health contribution of 2% on the main pensions and 6% on the subsidiary, resulting in an annual reduction of EUR 750 million. Of course, you have nothing to tell us about the two hundred and fifty thousand pensions pending. For people who are waiting to take retirement and live with help from relatives and friends. And you know why you don't give them? No, because you don't have money. You also say that you have a surplus of overtaxation and carpeting. You do not give them because you do not want young pensioners to see that their pensions are reduced by 35% and 40%. It's your law, too. And finally, you bring in the well-known setting of a hundred and twenty doses. Eight months you've been advertising it. And as you advertise it, the debts of citizens and businesses in taxes and insurance funds have been poured out. And that's not all you do. You treat debtors with two measures and weights: Other for natural persons and others for legal purposes. Not more than thirty-six instalments for business and up to a hundred and twenty instalments for the rest. Let me ask you this: if a business is closed, who will be unemployed? The worker! So you hate entrepreneurship, you want unemployed and not growth. That's why you're making this distinction. Would you like, gentlemen of the government, to really relieve the world? Behold, you have the New Democracy's amendment ready for the duty-free reduction and for the VAT rate to be reduced to 13%, as the Samara Government had reduced it in 2014. Vote and stop mocking Greek citizens, giving them crumbs on the one hand and taking them twice as much. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy was, is, is and remains the sideline of responsibility. Today we will vote for both a hundred and twenty instalments and the electoral allowance for pensioners and the reduction of VAT on focus, which is also on our programme and you have increased. The Greek people, however, will vote against SYRIZA's policy, which panic runs on election eves to gather unbelievables. But I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the government - and I will conclude with this - that the corresponding benefits of panic and vote did not bring the results expected by neither the Papandreou Government nor the Simitis Government and the famous package of EUR 7 billion in 2003. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, the time you enter the time of history as the worst government in Greece has arrived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u475	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u476	What do you want, Mr. Barca?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u477	I would like to speak for a second, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u478	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u479	I wanted to say on the basis of what the previous speaker said, I don't know about him, I don't have a picture...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u480	Minister, because yesterday the subject was raised, that is to say dialogue, you will speak, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u481	That is all I will say and I will stop, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u482	Mr President, I will reply later.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u483	No, I won't give you the floor, because yesterday it was the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u484	Mr President, that is all I have to say. I don't know about him...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u485	The Minister will make a correction and move on. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u486	That's all I'm gonna say. I don't know about him - and I'm sorry to repeat - but on Sunday morning I was with the Prime Minister in Lefkada. Next to the Metropolitan of Lefkas, a gentleman there said he was the MP of Lefkas, elected with New Democracy and participated in the opening of the new hospital in Lefkas. I don't know if Mr. Cavadas was there. He may not have been there, but there I saw and greeted the elected Member with the New Democracy in the Lefkada monodroat. He greeted the world, who had come there and participated in the opening of the new Lefkada Hospital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u487	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u488	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u489	Look, he said there was someone who was there, didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u490	He said a gentleman was there...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u491	He didn't say anything, Mr. Kavada. One who said...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u492	What does that have to do with anything? Irrelevant things we say here!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u493	That doesn't change anything to say, Mr. Cavada. Let it go. Mr Megloumoustakas, Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u494	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u495	You can't take the floor now, because I've given it to Mr. Big-fashioned. What do you mean? If you are going to say that, and the Minister said so, I too, that the Minister said that one of them said so, but that does not mean that you are embraced by what the - I do not know - who stated it. Mr. Big-fashioned, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u496	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I would like to remind you that all of us who belong to the Centre, those who represent it, are here, always in the hands of the country's common good. We are here to take the positives from the right, the positives from the left, to marry them so that a result can come, which we believe to be in favour of ordinary citizens. That's what we're asking for. In no case can we, as the Central Association, vote against positive, beneficial measures for the Greek citizen, for the Greek citizen, for the Greek worker, for the Greek businessman, for the Greek retired person, who in the last ten years has been going through these difficulties that we all know about. In the last ten years he has seen a large part of Greek youth, Greek scientists and researchers go abroad to seek his fortune. We as the Central Association will be voting in favour of the bill, as will some of the amendments that we consider to be right. However, under no circumstances will we leave anything without control. It is very important that what you have promised the Greek people to implement immediately, in the right way, and take other measures, as we owe them. And I say, we owe them, and we do not govern all these years that led us to the crisis, but we have never even supported you, but we owe them as a political system. We've bleeding from the Greek people. There are very few cases of optimism in Greek society. In fact, today, as a member of the Special Committee on Research and Technology, I have been following two examples of young people, two scientists who have experienced during the time of the crisis, who have expressed their complaints with both previous governments and today. We must strengthen all the productive structures that we have left. That's what we have to do. That is the right thing to do, and we must not in any case make a sterile opposition, just with what political benefit will be. That's wrong. This is what puts all politicians in a pot and comes the saying "near dry, burning greens" to be verified. Why? Unfortunately, in the light of all the practices that have led us to this crisis, we are coming to the present result. And what's that? It is the world that is indignant with the policy that is being pursued. We have seen the extreme right in Greece also, unfortunately, growing, perhaps one of the most tragic consequences of the crisis and what is happening is to repeat the same mistakes. And when I talk about mistakes, I don't mean these measures, I mean some practices, which I don't know are due to intentions, or they happen by mistake or because of lack of time. Because, good or bad, the measures come today and in ten days we have elections. I don't know, but the common sense would've made bad thoughts. Consider what you do, then, because with such measures, you certainly do the right thing. However, we must leave no doubt to the Greek citizen anymore. That's the new one he's asking for. It's not hard. We have to do the reasonable thing. Many people have said from this Step forward that Greek citizens' fight is returning, because it is simply Greek citizens who supported the country. So we have to reward them for that and give them back what we took from them. When you do, do it right. Give it a definitive solution. It's enough with the semimeters, with solutions that don't completely solve the problem! I've spoken too many times. It is such situations that make the world even more difficult. You may open the door, create a pin, but still can't pass, so hope doesn't come. I don't want to get tired of this House anymore. I won't be using all my time. I would like to say, however, that it is very important for all the parties to put aside the benefit we expect us to have, when Members or ministers are placed in their speeches here on the Step, to put aside our egoism and even at this late hour, to consider what is right for the Greek citizen. I do not in any way want to make an opposition, which will have no impact on it. That's why I've got the mild tone. In fact, the Greeks need to create hope. Let's do this right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u497	Thank you to Mr Megalostakas and to keep time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and a training session from the School of Journalism "ANDENNA". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move on to the next speaker, who is the Member of the Democratic Alliance, Mr Carras. Please, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u498	Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u499	Please, what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u500	Please wait a minute. It was insulting what Mr Barkas said, and you have to give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u501	Wait a minute, what was the provocative?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u502	He said'some gentleman'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u503	That's what he said. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u504	A little respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u505	Respect is what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u506	He said, "Some gentleman, but it's how he said it...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u507	He said that a gentleman who said he was a candidate for the New Democracy said that. Oh, good. He didn't say that you...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u508	'Some gentleman'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u509	He didn't question you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u510	Wait a minute, Mr. President, please. Because Mr Barkas has a great idea for himself, because he is a State Secretary and has to respect colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u511	No, don't create an episode. I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u512	He does not respect colleagues as he spoke before.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u513	But he didn't say anything about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u514	He said about me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u515	No, he didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u516	Congressman Lefkada is only one, and it's me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u517	Well, the man didn't say you weren't. He said that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u518	Did you hear what he said? He underestimated it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u519	No, he didn't say it about you in a punctual way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u520	After I heard. Here we were other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u521	Mr. Barka, did you say such a thing? Didn't I get it? Did you say such a thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u522	I said 'a gentleman'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u523	He said 'a gentleman'.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u524	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u525	What can you say more?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u526	That Mr. Barkas, as he spoke, has a very big idea for himself...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u527	Excuse me, he didn't talk about you. Don't answer that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u528	He talked about me personally. Mr President, in Lefkada there is a Member of the European Parliament and it is me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u529	Mr. Barkas, did you say anything about Mr. Cavada, didn't I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u530	"A gentleman," he says...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u531	'A gentleman said.' Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u532	"He sat next to the priests." That's what he said. That's me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u533	He didn't say about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u534	Ask him, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u535	Did you say about Mr. Barbas?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u536	"And he said congressman," he said. Mr. Barka, you should have asked for an apology, at least, in public. This is me. And if you have such a great idea for yourself, badly, because you're a Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u537	Please don't make any descriptions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u538	You must respect, because you're from the Preveza, and I'm from Lefkada. It's a shame to talk like that. That's not right. As for the hospital, I said it in my speech, I don't need it anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u539	All right, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, I don't think this is going to be a personal matter. Mr. Barca, I think this has to be restored. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u540	No, I'm sorry to have Mr. Barcas apologized.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u541	What am I sorry about now? Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u542	How's it going to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u543	The man said that...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u544	We're a neighborhood. Together we're next door. Don't you know each other?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u545	I agree. We're moving on. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u546	Mr President, before I speak on the bill, I have to observe something. When bills are of this size and of this interest and give rise to the interest of Parliament, Members of Parliament, public opinion, there should at least be a ratio of speech between Ministers, Parliamentary Representatives and Members. Unfortunately, this ratio has not been complied with in the past. If they are registered, I think - I will tell you the number, I have it in my papers, - ninety-three Members, it should be easier for the Members of Parliament to speak in proportion to the Members of Parliament. At the last hour I have seen a different distribution of speech, which, I think, does not contribute either to the good functioning of the House or to the service of both sides of the House to be heard as well. Regardless of this, of course, Mr President, now I have to say something else, going into the substance of the bill. This draft law is now under the suffering of the election period. The Prime Minister says it is a vote of confidence, the opposition says that the government should leave the next day, and I say something else: very rightly Mr. Loverdos said that we must measure the days until the European elections, so that we can wait the next day what will have come about for the country. Unfortunately, it seems to us that we are not taking this into account, and so at least from a governmental point of view, by bills which are stirring up many different issues and show an anguish to cover such matters as issues, to create a positive impression in favour of the government in the world. And see what world? To the one who has been afflicted by the crisis, from the measures to the present day. And so they have votes to cast. I want to be exact, because I say cast votes. I will only be left, because of the limited time, to an example of the many regulations of the bill that we are discussing, and not of the amendments that have been followed in the form of a storm, which have nothing to do with each other. I would therefore like to see the issue of a hundred twenty-dollar issue towards tax administration, which is the most critical point not only for families, professionals, but for the Greek economy. Unfortunately, we have not even seen the so-called privatizations financed by the Greek banks and no international investment has taken place in the country. So I come to the question of the hundred and twenty instalments and want to make the Ministry of Finance absolutely careful, because the provision of Article 98 at least to the first paragraph is a pretext. It says, therefore, that there will be up to one hundred and twenty doses for natural and legal persons or non-profit entities and up to thirty - it has been changed to thirty-six - for legal persons or entities of a speculative nature on request. The question arises: Does the wording of the legislation in which it says that the doses will be made up to a hundred and twenty for natural and legal persons or non-profit entities, which is a major legal question, include natural persons exercising professional or commercial activity or limiting the non-profit character, so that microprofessionals, self-employed persons in the regulation of the hundreds of twenty-dollars, because they have the capacity to go bankrupt and commercial property? Clear answers must be given and the law corrected. One issue which is raised and dealt with as a whole by microenterprises is the point that it applies to the regulation of up to thirty-six instalments - at the moment of twenty-four to thirty-six instalments - the mutual liability of legal entities and persons. Who do you go to, then, to those of you who know financially? The homogeneous partners, the partners of the IKEs, the private capital companies, are also subject to them as debtors, as against the company's obligations in the same instalments. They will not be able to respond. And after all, if you accept that natural persons can stay up to a hundred and twenty instalments, you have to accept that they have the same number of doses as the natural persons who are required to cover corporate liabilities of small entities. As I have said, they are the peer-to-peer companies and the IKEs, so that they can respond. If these provisions are left with the wording they have to date, we have to accept that it cannot be regulated by you almost by the microprofessionals. And why am I saying that? The Ministry of Finance itself, which recommends the law, has in the impact report the categories, the number and the amount of the debts of those who owe small sums. You know, Mr President, that from the contributors as the Ministry sees it, only 19.8% come from the category of total debtors from the income tax category, and 1.2% of the time-limits relate to fines, etc. So how will these be paid? They are small instalments, they are small debts and they must be facilitated. But when the other person fails to give the EUR 50, the EUR 100, and is subject to the fixed rate of twelve instalments, even if they are made up to twenty-four or up to thirty-six, will he respond or limit himself to receiving a tax or insurance information by paying only the first instalment of the arrangement? If it is also subject to the regulation of insurance contributions, then he will see to it that it is settled. For you must bear in mind that the fight against these people will be suspended. So give them the option to last if the natural persons are invited to pay at least sixty instalments of their company. It must last for natural persons, which are called guarantors, as members of personal companies or IKE, at least for sixty instalments. Only then can there be growth in the economy. Otherwise, there will also be a voting tool, in the run-up to the elections, for the European elections in the next few days. In addition, there will be a temporary incorporation and dismissal tool. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, for natural persons responsible for debts of micro-enterprises, a different number of doses should be given against the thirty-six or twenty-four which you say about companies. To accept that companies can be given limited access if they are in favour of the persons involved. But when will they be called? They'll be called when the company can't respond. Therefore, it must have a longer deadline for responding. I therefore think that you should, Minister, proceed with a legislative improvement so that you can at least then be proud at this point that you have had a success. However, if you insist, you understand that we will be here and after 26 May to say the same by denouncing you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u547	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to Mr Kegeroglu, because Mr Karras referred to the speakers, I would like to say that in the time of my Presidency, nine Members spoke with you. Three parliamentary representatives spoke, of which Mr Megalomoustakas, who asked to speak because he was leaving his plane. And the man spoke half the year. And Mrs. Papanatsiou is waiting for her turn. Then three Members will speak, and then Mrs Papanatsiou will speak. So you realize...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u548	Mr President, I don't want to blame anyone...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u549	Don't complain. The speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Kegeroglu, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u550	Two speakers spoke of us and you put them on the lid!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u551	Who did we put a lid on?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u552	We have formally asked for the Chair to have a distance from Mr Carras, another speaker. Can this not even be settled by the Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u553	Wait a minute, I said you'd go behind Mrs. Triantafyllou, in other words...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u554	We have formally called on the Chair to interfere with another colleague so that there can be a rotation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u555	I said go back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u556	In any case, these are issues which are resolved and we cannot reach agreement on them either. And a country's biggest problem is the lack of national understanding. And we paid that in 2010. We paid it in 2012, which was partly agreed. We paid for it in 2015. And yet, we cannot see these issues. Let me say, therefore, that what we have seen in the last few days in the debate on confidence, that the lack of national understanding in a two-party game of meaningful confrontation, made up, with content and issues which do not concern the citizens, only to try to defy the vote - they think - is something that the world has really taken on board, which has now been taught them. That's why he wants to hear substance. And that is not what you put into the public debate. We need to talk again about politics, about what they can give solutions, about what we can do to move forward for the benefit of Greek society. You're fighting about working relationships, about work, about how many days it is, about how many days the operation has to work. These, ladies and gentlemen, have been cleared up a long time ago. These are cleared from '82 with n.1264. It's clear a lot of business issues. The rules of the working relationship have been in. There was a suspension on a number of issues relating to the time of the crisis. From there on, however, there can be no misunderstanding at all. It's specified. Their implementation is the issue and respect for the institutions that need to be operated to implement. The fact that PPC must operate for seven days to produce energy who doubts it? That, at the same time, PPC workers and any undertaking that must operate for seven days for the public and social interest must have their rights guaranteed by who disputes it? Who also doubts that the social partners should agree on the arrangements for the implementation of the institutional framework? Who forbids it? Who's that third guy? No one, since they are within the legal and institutional framework. So keep in mind that all this is settled. Their implementation is the issue. Of course, it is also the question of the reintroduction of what has been suspended by the crisis, but the SYRIZA Government continues. Why do you not accept that the New Democracy and SYRIZA should re-establish the minimum wage and salary for the social partners, and you want the Minister to determine this by a ministerial decision or by a law Parliament? Where and where? We have the issue that Mr Mitsotakis mentioned the other day from this step. The government says about the CRL. Mitsotakis says: "We made the minimum guaranteed income." And he didn't say the government created it. New Democracy said. And I wrote to him on Facebook and all the social media, because I couldn't intervene in the House that day to consult Yannis Vrutsi and other colleagues from the New Democracy to tell him that it was the work of the government to which PASOK participated and I was responsible. We had, in fact, created for the first time in Greece the institution of minimum guaranteed income which had three pillars: and financial support and provision of services to live with dignity for people who experience extreme poverty, but also employment and employment opportunities for reintegration and not a trap of poverty, as SYRIZA has now done. These are, therefore, issues that we must not confuse in the debate on. We need to see how they improve. We need to see how the institution is going to function fully to have job opportunities for people who experience the difficult and not to park them with an allowance. These are issues that we need to see in the dialogue. Let me come to the measures brought by the government. He comes and tells us about things that have to do, first of all, with the settlement of debts. The question is: What debts? Is it about the debts that were before 2015 or after? There are debts before 2015, but there are much more after that. A full amount of EUR 55 billion has been created since 2015. What policy have these created with? They were created in the specific policy of overtaxation, overcrowding which caused companies and individuals to be unable to pay. With this overtaxation, net income has fallen sharply and have not been able to pay. And they were also recently burdened with other measures of the first and second memorials people themselves. Therefore, instead of a possibility of recovering their income from the beginning and the possibility of paying, unfortunately, was not even the regulation. And while we have tabled a proposal from November, you have not brought it to Parliament for a vote. So you regulate by the hundred and twenty instalments in a distorted way debts created in the previous period. You need to listen to the agencies and see our proposal. You need to improve the setting. In insurance, it's better. For the finances, for the public, it's handy. There isn't. We need to see how we solve issues. At the same time, I must say on the question of pensions. You come and say "the third pension" etc. You don't know what they are either. You say 'n' see' or 'in the form of a thirteenth.' All right, what are you doing now? Four years you have reduced pension income. The evidence we have submitted, which is not ours, of the independent authority, says that about EUR 2 000 per year for four years, EUR 8 000 has been lost by the pensioner. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little more time, Mr. President. This is due to two reasons. It is because of the collapse of supplementary pensions and the increase in the 2% contribution for the main pensions and 6% for the subsidiary. This reduction, therefore, combined with the cut in the ESA that disappeared - December 31, 2018, was paid the last CSCE - we have against these reductions in pensions the pentacosari. He's gonna give a pennie and he's, he says, antidote. We say that whatever returns is good, but don't say a thirteenth pension. And even your wickedness is so great that you thought about combining it with the measure of VAT. The retired's cafe stays at 24%, get him back his pentacosari within a year! Your wickedness has come so far! That's it. It's budgetaryly neutral, says Mr. Tsakalotos. How he put it down and tells you: After we collect from here the VAT and the other one, work is evenly balanced. Well, the Restaurant Federation and YESEE which we met just now, gave us a resolution asking for all kinds of goods to return VAT as you received it in 2015. Make a provision that you remove the provisions adopted by SYRIZA in the third memorandum and return the tax rates and VAT rates as you receive them in 2015. This is a fair solution, and then we discuss how to correct what we have done. But here you don't even fix what you did. It's above rivers what we hear in here. We are talking about social states, and here you have brought up, overthrowing what was a balance. And instead of coming back to what you received, you do half the jobs. I am tabling the WTO resolution in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member of the Democratic Assent, Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above resolution, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I conclude by saying that the Change Movement is here with the legal proposals, the draft "Greece", for what SYRIZA does not respect, democracy, justice, the independent authorities, the functioning of the institutions, for what it does not want, entrepreneurship, development, for what the New Democracy does not believe and cannot, for small businesses, farmers, for industrial relations, for social justice. A strong movement of change means the voice of the citizens here, strong in order to promote the project "Greece" and the proposals of the law that we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u557	In order to avoid misunderstandings, I must say that I ask all Members when there are requests, at least when I am in the Chair, to me. Because Mr Kegeroglu told the Secretariat to change order. I said that Mr Kegeroglu would ask if he would like to speak after Mrs Triantafyllou - i.e. Karasmanis, Barriots, Triantafyllou - and at that time the Secretariat says 'the President now entered the Chamber' and I say 'after he has entered and wants to speak, let him speak'. Especially with Mr. Kegeroglu, I have a fraternity relationship. There is no intention on my part, but I would also ask the other Members and the Secretariat, when at least I am in the Chair, to reach agreement with me. Thank you. And we shall proceed with Mr Karasmani, Member of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u558	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can hear from the government that the self-sufficient wording of the country has returned to normality. And the question is simple: What kind, what return and what regularity are they talking about? If they mean the infamous measures which have been announced, they are indeed some improvement in the daily lives of the citizens. But take note of the daily life of the dramatic situation and the deadlocks created in the very four years of the "first-time left" government, your own governance, ladies of the majority. With these measures you are trying to ball your own disastrous things from 2015 until today. Is there a more characteristic example than what you want to fake as the flagship of your benefits, namely the reduction of VAT on the focus, which is lacking, collapsing, half the regulation? But you show to ignore that unfortunately the people have memory and remember that from our government the VAT received it at 13%, where we had downloaded it since August 2013. You doubled him to almost 24%, in the context of the unnecessarily and most unbearable third memorandum, with your proud negotiation and the other "projects and your days", the black and destructive 2015. And now that you're taking him back to where you've received him from us and you're showing him as your leading provision to the economy and the citizens. Looks like you've envied Hoxha's glory and his puppy tactic. What are you talking about? For having us as a tax champion in the OECD countries, according to the organization's own figures? Or why, with the disastrous, anti-development policy, we are in the final position of the countries of the European Union in terms of investment? Or should we celebrate the spreads which are the mirror for the economic risk of a country and which remain at the highest in the eurozone? And this in the thirteenth pension again, what's a bad joke? You give 800 million when the cost of a normal pension is 2.2 billion. You have taken it all and you share crumbs when the low pensioners have deprived close to 1 billion with the abolition of the CSCE. And with the reduction in duty you have cut the twelfth pension, and if you do not vote for the amendment that we have tabled to reduce duty-free allowances, the zero-wage pension will be reduced, as will the eleventh wage. With the health contribution, which you increased by 50% in the main and 100% in supplementary pensions, you paid them over 800 million. And that's all it was. With the Katrugalos Act, you have broken down by 35% the main and 45% supplementary pensions. And now you are returning to them a rugged and irritating third pension, obviously because you consider these people naive and do not realize that what you give them is a cheap bait, an election aid - charity to unwritten votes. Gentlemen of the government, you have broken down the country's pension system. It's not a shape of speech, literally. The situation that has been created is tragic. I have pointed it out, and I have denounced it with constant questions in the House, but you are not answering. It is also a sign of how some ministers and especially Mr Petropoulos perceive the parliamentary function. One year after the transfer of the pension to the General Accounting Office of the State, EFKA prevails the absolute chaos, with thousands of pension applications stacking on the shelves and pensions that came out in three to five months, now it takes two to three years and we see. Therefore, instead of serving EFCA adequately, you sent ten employees - yes, ten employees, as you hear - and you had to take 50 more out of the former General Accounting Office of the State to train them. And because their secondment expired on 30 April, you brought them an amendment and join working parties and give them some false motives to work on afternoons and weekends. Parenthesis: In other words, you are the one who is dismantling the work acquired and indirectly, but clearly you are introducing seven days' work, but you want to give Mr.Mitsotakis such an intention by constantly altering his statements. The parentheses are closed. But, once again, with this amendment, can these people manage to carry out in reasonable time the thirty-five thousand pension documents registered in the first quarter of January - March? Of course not. As far as the bill for the hundred and twenty instalments is concerned, we certainly welcome it. But to remind you that in 2014 the respective Samara - Venizelos bill, you not only voted against it, but called on the debtors not to join it and to pay anything for the government to fall. That is your zero policy and that, of course, is our difference. For us, most of all, it was and is the interests of the citizens and the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u559	You're welcome, Mr. Karasmani.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u560	But you must realise that with the current political situation we will soon need new regulations. Therefore, improvements are needed. I do not have time to discuss it in detail. What I have to point out, and I think it is necessary, is a limit of 20,000. At least double, so that as many debtors as possible benefit from this arrangement. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to end by pointing out that with your policy, you are undermining the development of the economy and the country. Do not doubt that the citizens have fully realised this. In fact, their answer will be given to the poll. Sunday's short! Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u561	The Minister for Finance, Mrs Papanatsiou, has asked and will have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u562	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finally here in plenary and are discussing an extremely important bill, a bill which supports the great majority of the Greek people. It refers to those who have been hit by the crisis and solved deadlocks. It is only the beginning of the political project that this government will implement for the needs of many. Finally, we are discussing this in Parliament's plenary. The opposition wanted to delay it, wanted to blur the image and change the agenda. That's why he set up a communication show in the House in several doses of yellowism. However, the debate will take place on the basis of programmes and will take place on the basis of a plan. It is, of course, exactly what you are afraid of, because from the three-day time of Parliament and from your public positions it appears to be the absence of positions or even worse your secret agenda. We will discuss all of them and the hundred and twenty instalments and the measures announced by the Prime Minister last week and, it seems, you will vote on them already. She also has this contradiction with her beauty. Tax debt regulation aims to support the low and medium-sized layers, which have accumulated debts all over the previous years due to the objective circumstances of the crisis. We're talking about employees, about retired people, about professionals, about former professionals who've booked their books, about farmers, about people who want to be okay with their obligations, but they're having trouble. This is coming to heal. In particular, the arrangement will take over the debts that have become due on 31 December 2018 and will be easily accessible through the online platform on the tax administration website, reducing the bureaucracy and suffering of citizens. For incomes of up to EUR 10 000, it will be possible to adjust to up to a hundred twenty instalments with only a minimum payment of EUR 30, while for incomes of more than EUR 10,000, a progressive rate will be applied in relation to debt. The regulation will reduce the surcharges by 10%. If the debtor chooses to regulate his or her debt in less instalments than the tax administration suggests, there is a detailed reduction in increases and interest that may reach 90%. One-off and one-off payment of the debt will lead to a 100% exemption. Small debts of less than three thousand euros and with an income of up to EUR 10,000 will not be charged with interest after the regulation has been made, which provides for another protection measure for our fellow citizens who really need it. For non-profit-making legal persons and legal persons governed by public law the arrangement will be proportionate to natural persons. For legal persons of a speculative nature, there will be two different arrangements in our attempt to have a proportionate and targeted arrangement depending on the type of debt. They will be able to regulate their debts in twenty-four and thirty-six instalments. Ultimately, the necessary recovery measures, such as the freezing of an account or a seizure, will be suspended and tax information will be provided. Ladies and gentlemen, the regulation of the hundred and twenty instalments is not the only good thing that this bill brings. The broad set of positive measures announced by the Prime Minister last week for 2019 and 2020 is now starting to be legislated. In this bill we take the measures for 2019. There is therefore a law to apply directly from 20 May to the reduction of VAT on the focus from 24% to 13%, to the transfer of all food from 24% to 13%, to the reduction of VAT on electricity and natural gas from 13% to 6%. These measures will have a direct positive impact on consumers, households and businesses, measures to stimulate the market. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I would like a second. Thank you. Of course, this bill is taking direct action to grant the thirteenth pension, for which we have heard so much from the Chief of Staff. He said the Greek economy couldn't stand it, it's populism. That's what you were just saying a week ago, gentlemen of Officer Opposition. Rather, this is coming to supplement your neoliberal profile of your views on benefits, wages and labour rights. Incidentally, we wonder whether you will vote for a measure that cannot be tolerated by the economy, but the limits and tolerances of which you have not learned them very well and have not respected them. And the Greek people understood that in the hardest way. They will, of course, follow other measures for 2020, such as the reduction of VAT on goods and services from 13% to 11%, the abolition of the solidarity levy for incomes of up to EUR 20,000 and the reduction of the solidarity levy for incomes of over EUR 20,000, the reduction of the income tax for permanent residents of islands with a population of up to three thousand, the reduction of the ETUC, the reduction of the tax on cooperatives, such as agricultural cooperatives, drug cooperatives and other urban cooperatives, the 10% reduction of the income of cooperative farmers moving through cooperatives, the further reduction of the heating costs for mountain areas, the exemption of interest on first-stage housing loans from taxable income, the increase in depreciation rates to 150%, and the subsidy of insurance contributions, companies and young workers up to twenty-five years for both the employer and the employee. All the anti-population hastened to characterise them as pre-election benefits, unfortunately, in opposition, they are here to stay. They're permanent measures. They will not stop there after the elections, but they will be here to support a four-year-old social and economic recovery programme. The central element of this programme is the idea that growth cannot be founded on social debris. That is why we are talking about fair growth, that the wealth produced at the time it is produced must be shared equally in society as opposed to what Mr Mitsotakis said on Sunday that "to give, you must first increase the pie" and that is the core of neoliberal conception. Our differences with New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis and with regard to fiscal policy are becoming even clearer. The concept of social justice, tax capacity does not exist in their own perception. This seems when they talk about reducing the HPAI for all, that is to say, the same reduction for those with very low assets, EUR 50,000 and for the person who owns EUR 5 000 000. We do not need to say who will ultimately be favoured if this is implemented. The overall programme of the New Democracy, of course, becomes clearer and clearer every day. It is good that if there is nothing secret to the Greek people, for the people to know that if they vote New Democracy, the five-day work can take place for seven days, for the people to know that there may not be a third pension, for the people to know that the eighth hour can be abolished because it is outdated and that collective agreements do not always have to be applied, for the people to know that voting in New Democracy means voting in Verber, which considers the government's plan for the reliefs of many irresponsibility, for the people to know that in the ideological project of counterpopulation there are two worlds, the supposedly excellent and the children from Peristeri, from the people's districts - imagine the children of the province! - to know, too, that there are indeed two conflicting worlds, that of many and that of the elites, that the people know that they will not succeed, that we will put an end to their anti-social agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, a very positive consequence of exiting from the memoranda of the new period, in which we find ourselves, is that the plans of the political forces for the next day are beginning to be more and more clearly captured and the dividing lines between them appear. Finally, the people know who he's going with and who he's going to leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u563	Thank you. We continue with Mr Bargiota, Member of the Democratic Alliance. Mr Barriotta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u564	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today, 11 days before the European elections, the long-awaited bill for the hundred and twenty instalments and also the amendments on the so-called third pension and VAT corrections, improvements to VAT scales. It is obvious in the last few days, in my opinion - and during the previous debate on the vote of confidence and in the next few days - that the anguish of the government about the creation of an euphoria climate, a positive scenario, an optimistic scenario for the outcome of the economy and the government in general. In simple terms, these days the government is giving 1% of GDP in terms of the election, and even very close to the election, as Mr Tsakalots said. And one wonders, so bad are the rolling polls a few days before the elections, which force such actions in this way? We are, as we said, ten days before the elections and the payment to the elections - as the government said it was sweating to get the election allowance to the elections - is a coincidence, in the view of most speakers today. It happened to coincide with Friday before the elections, the famous improvement, the thirteenth pension. For the hundred and twenty doses, which come with a huge delay, we have been placed on several occasions. As far as we have reached the deadlines of this government, since 2015, to have reached 55 billion euros, I am very afraid that the disparity with which the market was waiting for the necessary dose adjustment has resulted in disappointment, as it is what we say'very late, very little'. There are many restrictions for most, few doses for businesses. We have tabled a proposal for a law in time much better than this one. It seems, then, that most will not be able to enter and continue in the long term in the way we are doing, and if we want to be honest, the problem of overdue people will not be solved as long as the market does not have money, as long as debtors cannot - in commonly called - return the month. Without strong growth, doses do not pay. The Prime Minister in the meantime celebrates the resolution of problems that would not exist if he had not taken over the rule, Mr Varoufakis and his party. VAT does not even return where it was in the first half of 2014, as, as we said before, beverages remain at the high rate and pensioners will only receive 1/10 of what this government has cut, 6% health contribution to pensions, the disappearance of the CSCE, 15.5% reduction in pensions from 2014 onwards, with elements of the CSCE. The Prime Minister, who thinks he is Prime Minister in the City of Lottag, returns a small part of what this government has cost retired people. He actually sells beads to retired people and not just. If we want to be honest, it is obvious to everyone that the government is trying to manipulate, it is actually trying to take off the majority vote, the largest sub-installation - if you want - which are the pensioners who touch the two and a half billion in Greece. It is an electoral allowance that is derived from the worst traditions of old-fashionedism. Mr Loverdos remembered Rally's famous cheques, on the eve of the elections in 1981, and I think these practices always have the same effect, rather than the intended one. Of course, it also inaugurates projects, not only the Hospital of Lefkada, which started, founded, guaranteed its funding and was designed at the time Mr. Loverdes was Minister, but also many other semifinished or already finished in Crete, in Yannina. With the time he has taken, he may also inaugurate the maternity of the famous film with Mavroyaluro in Kato Platania. A little restraint would do good with the opening, because it reminds of seasons before the dictatorship! It really reminds me of times before the dictatorship. They're all sinners, Mr. Manda. But you've done too much. A modern election campaign, otherwise I hear, with positions and arguments and a plan by the government. A plan for the extraction of voters, if any, of a plan to get out of the crisis very difficult. But the Greeks are not looters. We know very well - we all know, you admitted it, too - that 86 billion euros were the cost only of the famous 'Varoufakada' and that of the tragic case in the summer of 2015 with the capital controls and the closure of the banks. All this loss of GDP, the EUR 86 billion, took place overnight. Otherwise, populists show with their fingers. They forget their own responsibilities. The truth is, however, that this government is returning a small part of the cost that it has added to the rest of the cost of the crisis over a decade. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Due to time I will close with a small comment on the amendment to Rebate 2006-2008. I can't stand the temptation. From the entire seven years of Karamanlis, from the whole health party, for which five years you haven't seen anything, you have recovered the next change of invoicing of medicines for reasons of communication clearly - within introductorys - 'forgotten' and today you are trying again for communications with an amendment, which has huge problems and legal and practical, to tell us that you are not doing thanks to the multinational companies and you are not making gifts, as the Minister has heard us say this morning. The truth is, we have a distorted pharmaceutical policy. We are the country with the highest costs in the pocket of the insured, the poor, with huge burdens on the way in which participation in medicines is involved and instead of discussing these, we are discussing 2006-2009. Take them! Since they are due, there is no objection, but it would be better if we had a little more serious, a little more restrained about the big problems of the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I heard the Prime Minister yesterday talking about a post-democracy experiment in New Democracy. I had the impression that the experiment of post-democracy began in January 2015 with this government, but in any case I do not belong to those who expect redemption from the party that went bankrupt the country, New Democracy, in the next period, nor do I have any illusions. But an experiment, even expensive - in any case of post-democracy or not, I do not know - has been the rule by this government and the Greek people on the side of the animal have no one - but no one! - to be happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u565	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u566	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u567	Thank you, too. Ms Maria Triantafyllou, SYRIZA MP, has the floor. Let us be a little consistent in time, please, so that we can speak as many colleagues as possible. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u568	Thank you, Mr President. Before I start talking about today's bill, you will allow me to make a comment. When I entered the Chamber I think I have heard - I have not been at the beginning of his speech - the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, another overpatriot, saying that Greece should help Cyprus and be with Cyprus, etc. I would like to remind the Delegation and the dear colleagues who are here, that the junta - and neither of us should forget it - has delivered Cyprus. It was a junta's decision to withdraw the Greek division, which had been decided by the previous government, the Government of George Papandreou, of course, by circumventing the Treaty of Zurich, but with Turkey aware of the danger. It must be said that in December 1967 on the order of the junta the Greek division left ten thousand men. Of course, we understand what that means, how weakened it means for the Cypriot defence and, of course, a failure to prevent any intervention, which unfortunately has been done. Why am I saying all this? Why, I say again, misery by the junta's perpetrators, the fascists of fascism, indulgence and indulgence, and they should understand very well that the Greek citizens and the Greek people cannot accept such messages and admonitions. However, I think we should be very sceptical and careful today, precisely because we are talking about Turkey, which is a reforming force over time, with huge economic problems, with internal bleeding due to Kurdish and, of course, with new data on geothermal energy. So we need alliances in the north and south - this government has made this reality - and, of course, more demands and demands from the European Union, as has rightly been said, even for sanctions against Turkey. I come to the bill, to today's institution. What does the New Democracy and the rest of the Opposition say to us? What does he say about SYRIZA? The well-known: we dissolved the insurance policy, although the funds were empty and ended up. We've broken up our bankrupt country's economy. We brought a third inappropriate memorandum, the two previous ones being useful. Why is that? You don't explain why they came. We had years of well-being and development with unprecedented achievements from the two branches that ruled the place in every area of economic and social life, but abundant in 2010 there was Kastelorizo, there was an IMF, there were monuments. And SYRIZA dared to interrupt these lasting successes in 2015. Of course, there were some misfortune, we are told here that the two parties of the previous two-partyism - putting the blame on each other - but the big thing is that SYRIZA dared in 2015 to stop this'success story'! What'success story'? 25% of GDP reduction, 28% of unemployment, the robust pension system with licensed funds and the PSI, the dismantling of production - we found EUR 3 billion in imputation and fines - the savage subsistence of health and education. And, of course, all of them had it in wisdom, really, it was all right. We hear Mr Brutsi talking about the 'ERGAN' system, about 'HIOS', etc. We just heard Mr. Kegeroglu talking about a good insurance policy before I meant SYRIZA. Hypotension in health and education did not exist. Why am I saying all this? Because the question today is whether it's an election firework or a tenth retirement. Indeed, it does not fully correspond to the thirteenth pension, and it is actually only adopted before the European elections. So what? What does that mean, ladies and gentlemen? Solos were your own measures. You have reduced for about a year the VAT and you have it and you say it when you had not been able to close any programme, which under your responsibility came and sat down on the country. Of course, that's not the problem. The problem of both parties, of the New Democracy and of the old PASOK - or, as they say now - is enlargement, and not only is it, parliamentary enlargement - or, as the enlargement of the willing - of the government's party to the SYRIZA, but above all a new political alliance with part of the centre-left and yes, with part of the democratic right. Your problem, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, is that you do not rally anything, and on the contrary Alexis Tsipras - you will allow me to say - that he gets from everywhere. Today, the country is trying to regain some of its freedoms, achieve economic recovery, coming out of a state of bankruptcy and bankruptcy. Full recovery does not only take time, but also requires a plan, which must be necessarily different from the previous ones, and above all answers to why we have reached this point. These answers are not easy. We've received a bankrupt country. An attempt has been made to tackle the humanitarian crisis and it has been reduced - we are, of course, under people's needs - poverty by two units. We have achieved a budgetary balance and we have adopted measures to strengthen and protect labour and labour rights. We increased the minimum wage, which was down by 22%, by 11%. We have also tried to raise production in the primary sector, where we only had deficits and over-lapping. Of course, I must say that, in relation to the debt, we have reduced the average interest rate on loans to be repaid, we have stabilised the interest rates for a large part of the debt, we have achieved a suspension of the targets, and so we have ensured over a 15-year period that we can freely take initiatives to re-establish the economy, and we have returned to the markets at low borrowing rates, we have a liquidity reserve to meet needs by 2023, where there were years of deficits, and we are of course paying off the IMF loans at the highest rate. Finally, I would like to say this: you keep talking about elections. The elections are indeed before the gates. Everyone must prove their value, their social utility and of course the one chosen by the Greek people. We know that the Greek people have relied on us at the most difficult times and will do so now, today, that we can really see a way out for the country, economic, political and cultural. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u569	Thank you, Mrs. Maria Triantafel. Mr. Ioannis Tsironis, MP SYRIZA of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u570	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor to break down the anti-population fraud that the government's social policy is supposed to be based on burdensome taxation. Not only will I demonstrate that it is not the taxation that enables us to take these measures, but instead it is the first time that the Greek Government can rely on solid foundations of the real economy. In 2010, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the memoranda, the taxes collected by the Greek State were about 22.5% of GDP. In 2010, the State collected EUR 51 billion of taxes from its citizens. But in the same year, in order to maintain your clientele, you have created a deficit of EUR 24 billion, which was obviously covered by borrowing. So you have not collected these EUR 24 billion from the citizens. You've thrown it to our children. You've thrown them there, and right now we're squeezing about the debt you've created. If you had collected these EUR 24 billion, together with the other EUR 51 billion, to cover the State's obligations, then of course you would have a percentage of GDP of 33% and you would have a record in Europe. In 2014, the State received EUR 47 billion of taxes, not EUR 51 billion. You'll say we're relieved. No, of course, because in the meantime Greece had lost 25% of its wealth. This figure was 26% of GDP, namely Greece that year took the lead of Europe along with Malta in GDP taxes. The bad news, however, is that, despite the fact that you have collected these taxes, you have again had a deficit of EUR 6 billion. If this 6 billion-dollar deficit had you collected it to be householders, so that you could cover your obligations, then of course you would have 30% of GDP taxes, far greater than us. But you, too, threw the ball on the platform. You have created another deficit, another wound for what we call the country's huge lending. But that's not all. Did you manage this deficit in the same year, as other householded countries do, to increase GDP? Oh, no. The country's GDP over samaro - Venizelos went from EUR 191 billion to EUR 178 billion. You've got another one. And not only that, you also left us empty funds that didn't reach the money you left in for a month's wages and pensions. You dismantled the state and escaped like rabbits. That was the reality. The reality was that you also received taxes and made deficits and caused borrowing! So to stop this fairy tale that we are taking EUR 10 billion every year and returning to EUR 1 billion. We will see, then, in 2017 - because 2018 is not yet complete - what we received. In 2017 we received a little over 49 billion euros, and in the meantime GDP had gone to 180 billion euros - it went up - and that means that the rate of tax GDP is 27.7%. But, in the same year, we had already created a general government surplus of EUR 1.4 billion, what we shared. This money of the Greek people we took back. That is, not only, EUR 10 billion is not what we have received and what we have given, but we have got about the same thing that you have taken and given and did not create any debt. We served the debt you created. And so we go to this debt of EUR 305 billion when the Samaro-Venezel Government took over and went to EUR 319 billion and we have empty funds. And for these days, of course, it is 330 billion, but 30 billion is the pillow or the lowest thanks we pay off the IMF loans. So we've got a big pigeon right now. We have three hundred thousand more full-time jobs, I stress, full-time. We've got a total of three hundred eighty thousand, but the three hundred thousand is full. There are three million four hundred and eighty-five thousand full-time jobs in Greece from three million to eighty-five thousand that we received from the Samaro - Venizelos Government. This means, for ECA alone, about a billion euros more than, out of these three hundred thousand people, only from insurance contributions and employers' contributions, so what do we compare now? And I will say the last thing our Minister, Mr Chakalotos, said, to compare, so that you do not talk about poor and many. He said the Gini index fell and in 2018 - we expect the definitive data - by two points. It's the index of social inequality. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President. This means that inequality has fallen in Greece for these days. And in 2017, two units fell. What the Minister did not say and which I now tell you is that the historic record of social inequality in Greece was achieved in 2014 by the Government of New Democracy - PASOK. 34.5 units are historical record of Greece in social inequality, to see what kind of political resolution you followed and to whom you loaded the burdens. A record of social inequality in 2014, a record of low social inequality over our days. And I'm closing the conclusions. First of all, the country serves its obligations. What you see today in this bill is from our economy, it's not from loan and unscrupulous, which is why it's permanent. This is the huge difference, when we say if it is permanent, if it is election and why we did not give it last year or before. Because we couldn't. From your economy we couldn't. We gave it when we got there. I wish we'd given it earlier. And it would have helped us to have given it to us earlier. Now we were able to close 2018 statistics and we can do it. If you are disturbed by this that we are now giving it to us, it makes us proud because it is the Greek people's money and we have housed it. We have not managed to reduce the costs of the state by sacking people like you, like Mr Mitsotakis, one by five. We didn't lighten the citizens by dismantling hospitals and schools. And we can lighten the workers right now because we have 5% industrial growth, because we have a record in the processing index, because we have finally managed to get rid of this burdensome lending of the IMF and we have a way out for the future, so that we can give people what they deserve. We are, therefore, eight months apart from memorials, and already the difference is huge. And when citizens finally sit down and get informed about them and not cigars, they will understand the big difference and put you where you deserve it: in history time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u571	Mr. Georgios Georgios has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u572	Thank you very much, Mr President. I thank my colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, there are not only political positions and political arguments in this area. Because everyone has the course and history and every political party is in it, there is a comparison of the responsibility, the seriousness and the consistency of each. And I am forced to start my speech for this reason. I see the last slogan of SYRIZA, which says: 'The time has come for many'. And I ask you this question, ladies and gentlemen. Was it not the time of many, when in the summer of 2013 the Samara Government brought VAT reduction to the focus from 23% to 13%, and you did not vote in favour of it? Was it not the time of many, when in November 2014 the arrangement for the debts to the insurance funds and the public from seventy to a hundred instalments, and you did not vote in favour of it? Was it not the time for the many, when the 30% reduction in the social solidarity levy came, also in November 2014, and you did not vote in favour of it? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the two-and-a-half years of the New Democracy Government - PASOK from your party as opposition, with its allegedly serious and responsible opposition, only two provisions were voted in Parliament. One was the famous amendment so that one and only one - because you are not with the many - convicted of terrorism by the Romans to facilitate his studies, from where he was a prisoner and your second vote was in some of the provisions of the drug law. Nothing more positive was found for you two and a half years to vote for, actually making a sterile negative opposition. And the examples I mentioned, the three specific ones - there are many others - are really a witness to the way of irresponsibility with which you carried out your opposition work. The New Democracy in what is being given to the world is absolutely positive and has voted not just for this amendment, has voted not on this amendment which comes shortly before the elections and has passed benefits, has voted for legislation, and has voted for part of the legislation and whole, when it sees itself in the right direction, a pro-investment direction, a reformist direction. He has done so without any hesitation, because above all we must all serve together the benefit of many, many and not every Roman in just two and a half years. And, of course, to remember, from these regulations you are doing today, a very large amount of debt was created in your four-year period: EUR 85 billion was due to the insurance funds and the public, EUR 140 billion is now. That's clear. We'll support it. But I want you to see this. In May 2014, before the European elections at that time, did Samara Government give anything? I told you before, and I don't know if you noticed, the VAT reduction to 13% we voted in favour of it from 1 August 2013, in a year without a politically suspicious year. Now you're giving a tip. You do well to do so since you can give it, but you will not prevent us from commenting on the political feasibility of such a policy, which the Greek people know very well. So to be clear in this Chamber, New Democracy, as an opposition and as a government, did indeed see the interest of many and always tried to do so. As a result, we are all judged. However, before the outcome, there is also the intention of everyone, the arguments of everyone, the ideological position of everyone and the consistency or inconsistency of each other. So today, this amendment gives you the possibility of this irreversible conflict when the many who had to benefit in 2013 by reducing VAT and in 2014 by the seventy-two and a hundred instalments and by reducing the contribution of social solidarity by 30%, you were indifferently indifferent and did not vote in favour of those provisions of Antony Samaras. In a few days, the answer to all your irresponsibility will be taken to the polls. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u573	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. The speaker of SYRIZA Mr. Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u574	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the multi-brand plan of the Ministry of Labour we are discussing today closes the ten-year period of suffocating and unfair interventions in our country's economy, interventions which have created explosive social deadlocks and economic stagnation. The Prime Minister's commitment that the exit from the memoranda is real and will follow the gradual restoration of the normality of work, the competitiveness and the development of the real economy with this bill. The measures we recommend apply directly to all citizens, without exceptions. The proof of the hard work that has been done during our government period is reflected in both the regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments, the regulation of enormous social relief for a million three hundred thousands of our fellow citizens with debts in both the insurance funds and the tax and the municipalities. In particular, we are adopting a favourable regulation for farmers. Their debt increases to 100%, the new dosing cap is increased from 4000 euros to 6000 euros, while farmers have the opportunity to pay their debt in a hundred twenty instalments, with a minimum of 30 euros. Some eighty thousand overtime debtors are retired, who are currently locked in insured persons and cannot retire because of debts in the funds. They will immediately receive their pension and pay off their debt with a short monthly withdrew. At the same time, the age limit of fifty-five years is abolished, and so widow's pensions will be paid to husband and wife regardless of their age. In addition, the double increase for the forty-five thousand widow's pensions already issued, calculated by the Katrugalos Act, as for all future, is promoted, so that the spouse who has been living is now entitled to 70% of the pension of the deceased, instead of 50%, which is translated into an increase in the amount entitled to 40%. There are also a series of positive working arrangements, most important of which may be the introduction of reasoned redundancies, which is considered to be a serious barrier to employers' arbitrariness. In the event of unpaid dismissal, redundancies shall be invalid and workers shall have the right to re-employment to their employer and to pay late payments. We are dealing with reported work with stricter fines, we are protecting the health and safety of carriers and distributors. The effectiveness of this government is primarily prejudged by the amendment accompanying this bill and provides for the restoration of the tenth pension, which will be submitted to the beneficiaries on 20 May, the reduction of VAT on catering and standardised foods from 24% to 13% and the reduction of VAT on energy, electricity and natural gas, from 13% to 6%. The Opposition does not clearly recognize the brutal struggle of our Government and accuses us of pre-electionistism and a broom bill, which aims to override the vote of Greek citizens. They cannot understand that now that our term of office is coming to an end, now that our policy is ending, it also bears fruit. And I assure you these are the first fruits, and we've got them all the time. We did not direct the Timing, ladies and gentlemen. Governments are judged as a whole in elections. They are also unable to understand that this government has taken up its responsibilities, has coordinated its stepping up and has not been content with the implementation of the Memorandum Obligations in recent years. We moved on to brave reforms to reorganise a completed and unclean insurance system that we received in 2015 - I refer you to the negligible data mentioned by Mrs Ahtsoglou - as well as to a number of interventions in the management and saving of public resources. We have shown consistency and many times we have endured measures that did not express us, but we know it is the necessary bitter glass of the crisis. We have, however, made sure that it is the last. So this bill is the crew of time. It does not just provide for relief measures. They are the labors of the Greek people who have not gone to losers. It is the determination of a government capable of negotiating the crisis and fighting with established public administration pathogens. Our aim is to restore the economy in terms of realism and justice. We support entrepreneurship as the most appropriate measure to tackle the crisis. We are actively dealing with the stress and insecurity of debtors, because we provide them with a settlement that is sustainable and reasonable, to which everyone can respond. We treat the debts of four million citizens in the economy - three and a half million of them owe less than EUR 5,000 - but also professionals and businesses in insurance funds and taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we continue the course of positive measures and policies in favour of many for all those who disproportionately lifted the burdens in the years of the crisis. We owe them that and we do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u575	Thank you. Members of SYRIZA Dimitrios Dimitriadis have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u576	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this bill there is a set of regulations and amendments which, in the first instance, seem unconnected with each other, obviously fall within a coherent and comprehensive framework for the recovery of the economy, but also support for society. It is another step in the new landscape and in the new era that brought our political plan out of the crisis, of course, thanks to the enormous impetus that the people have given us over the past difficult years. Until now we have taken a series of measures that have helped each Greek and every Greek in several ways and in several cases. We will continue, because this is at the core of our political plan, because this is our identity, because we have never changed targets, but we have changed roads to get here and we seem to be doing it. What matters to what we are legislating - and we meet on every initiative - is that, first of all, this is done with a plan, aiming at it. First of all, we have a success in programming, in budget and in management. We also have a success in productive reconstruction and in changing the production model, which is, of course, carried out in an unpredictable manner. It is something that we are not just saying, which we do not need to observe in this House alone, but all our allies, all our partners and all the international organisations, whether they be bankers, developmentists or academics. Therefore, all measures to alleviate and correct the injustices of the memorandums and recover the rights of the world of work are the result of what we have already achieved and these are what we are proposing. All citizens will therefore see increases in their incomes. The New Democracy account has failed a long time ago. As long as this is going through, of course, this time is getting even worse for it and its strategic deadlock is growing. Because a fair and sustainable plan for how we would get out of the crisis was not. She just did what the lenders told her. Drawing on how better days will come when we've come out of the crisis, not a reason! And we're explaining. We are introducing the thirteenth pension. It is firstly a permanent arrangement which has a new architecture which is structured firmly and openly, in a way that is sustainable and based on data that we have already achieved. The system of recalculating pensions that is robust, fair, transparent and sustainable is called the Katorugalou law. The funds are also real reserves, without the tragic deficits in previous years and have a continuous increase in their savings, but also in their liquidity. So the possibility of being even better tomorrow at this very moment, that is, the thirteenth pension we are introducing, open and before us. Secondly, there is something that I personally consider to be very important. This is the reduction in the taxation of cooperative farmers by 10%. It is a well-calculated arrangement because it adopts a genuine and stable request from the cooperative farmers. I must add here that even when the Prime Minister came to Velvet recently we have had this debate and the request has been recast. There was exactly the promise. The demand puts it all the Greek region and all the cooperative rural movement that say it is fair and must be done. Indeed, that is what we are doing, because it helps the real economy, the legality of transactions, and it promotes farmers' cooperatives. It is a good basis for us to extend to the future. We also have, in this draft law, regulation of insurance contributions. The needs of the market for entrepreneurs and free traders and all those in the crisis from underdevelopment require this regulation. It is possible, however, because it is stepping on the solid territory of the surplus funds, on the recalculation established in a fair and sustainable way by the Katrugalou law on insurance, the one who claims that they will be abolished, when they can, but they do not tell us how they will do so, what their own methodology is for the calculation, for the 'haircut' and for the availability of the funds. Since I do not have time to do so, Mr President, I shall refer to an amendment which I tabled concerning the reduction of VAT. First of all, we are reducing VAT on food and basic goods. In other words, we're going to 6% of electricity and natural gas. Here there was a deficit because it is not common in the Greek productive fabric, in the constant heating systems. We are talking about the so-called "televignette" which mainly concerns northern Greece and western Macedonia, namely Ptolemais, Kozani, Amyntheos and Megalopolis. There was, therefore, a request - and my amendment accepted by the Minister and, therefore, it is indeed a good thing - to include district heating in the reduced VAT rate at 6%, precisely because it is a very important production parameter based on Greek know-how and domestic fuel production. It is also new technology, green technology. Furthermore, it is a cheap supply of thermal energy which can give solutions to the Greek territory, so not only as regards the steam power plants of PPC, but also possibly the biomass and other alternative forms of energy supply. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, Mr President - and I thank you for your tolerance - I have a point to make. For things that were not understood by the Opposition, the old political system in general, that can be achieved, it is now populated. He pretends there's nothing wrong. But that's always the way it was, because they were just sharing what wasn't theirs. Only now we're here and we're for the many! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u577	Thank you, Mr. Demetriadis. Nikos Srmalene, Member of SYRIZA of the Prefecture of Cyclades, has the floor. Mr. Symphony, here, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u578	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that millions of people are expecting this, millions of debtors in insurance funds, taxes and municipalities, debtors in the hard times of the crisis and, above all, by 2014. Before I begin, however, I would like to ask the New Democracy colleagues something. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, who are you with, with measures or with Verber? I ask this because we have heard that the candidate President of the European Commission whom you support and your Chief has repeatedly said that this is nonsense. So why do you vote for them if it's nonsense? Or, therefore, you are voting hypocritically because you do not believe them or have to make it clear whether you are finally adopting Mr Weber's political and ideological orientation. The Greek people must know that by voting for a new Republic in the European elections, they vote for a President of the European Commission. One and one are two. The New Democracy and, in general, the Opposition, having failed in all its catastrophic predictions of our plan of governance and the progress of the country and of the economy, have left only a few arguments left. Two arguments invoked in this debate and in the last few days, in the last few days, are, firstly, “Why are you now bringing these measures? So it is election, and you are trying to make fun of the Greek people once again, so you say to us - and, secondly, 'This is not a third pension, but an election allowance'. So we answer you this: Why now? For the last four years, with a plan, persistence, stability, patience and thanks to the patience and sacrifices of the great majority of the Greek people, the government has achieved all the goals it has set. He took the country out of the memorials, assured fiscal stability and raised the social state, which you dismantled, the New Democracy and the PASOK, with the first and second Memorandums. We have therefore acquired as a country of credibility, both internal and international, because we have achieved the objectives and created the financial area. That is why, following the results of the European Statistical Office, which were recently announced in April, we also have the opportunity to move on to other relief measures, which we started last October. You're telling us we're late. I told you the answer. You're telling us that the measure is not a permanent one, but it's an election firework. We tell you that, as long as there is a government in SYRIZA, not only the thirteenth pension in the form of the Easter gift - this will be accepted - it will be given every year to all pensioners, but, moreover, this tenth pension will be extended. So you have led us to the hard times we have overcome, in the loss of the national wealth of 25%, to unemployment of 27% with over a million and a half unemployed. You did not manage to close the fifth evaluation of the second memorandum and say to us "But now you are coming and you are reducing the VAT from 24% to 13%, which we have done." Why have you done so and hypocritically here, would you bring an amendment to vote on it to your logic? Why did you do it? Because you had lost the European elections and because you saw that you could not close the fifth evaluation and as an election measure you were trying to create certain conditions supposedly to relieve the Greek people. As time is limited, I would like to tell you that with make news, with slander, with yellowism, but also with hypocritical amendments you cannot go away. You have no programme speech, you have no substantial positions and you are trying with fireworks, such as the fireworks in the amendment to abolish duty-free reduction, to twist the government is supposed to. As with pensions, which have not been reduced, as long as there is a SYRIZA government, the tax will not be reduced. It's over and out. And because many of you say outrageously and arrogantly that twelve plus one day left, eleven plus one day left, I want to tell you to keep a small basket, because it can be done a big one. With the great popular gatherings, such as the one that ended some time ago in Aigaleo, in West Athens, with thousands of people attending the Prime Minister, who came as a follow-up to the other major gatherings in Arta, Preveza, Lefkada, Crete, Kalamata and Galatsi, the course of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, which will reach a victory on May 26, 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u579	Thank you Nicos Syriza, MP of SYRIZA. The reason for five minutes is Apostolos Vesiropoulos, MP of the Imathia Prefecture of New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u580	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has lost the confidence of its citizens. It prescribes Parliament's confidence by forming a parliamentary majority that has been characterised as a rag, a characterisation which is very diligent, considering the way, the methods and the obvious transactions with which this majority was formed. Mr. Tsipras insists on being strung at power by the last day. That is why the elections to the European Parliament in twelve days' time from now have become crucial and decisive, not just to defeat this government, but to crush politically, because morally it has already been crushed in the consciousness of the citizens. Mr. Tsipras about elite is now indicted. When he assurrects as a guest at the earliest of elites underestimates citizens' intelligence. The government believes that it will be rescued and reduced the extent of its defeat by the measures it has announced in the recent period. It will see very soon that the citizens have made their decisions. Today we are discussing the bill tabled by the government for the hundred and twenty instalments. In December 2014, citizens’ debts to taxi and insurance funds were EUR 85 billion. There was a trend towards stabilization and de-escalation, which could accelerate if the overthrow of that government did not take place. Today these debts have reached EUR 140 billion, and the government should probably explain to us how they were launched at this level, since everything is going so well in the country. The debts were launched at EUR 140 billion, firstly by overtaxation, by taxes that have remained unpaid, because quite simply the citizens' tax capacity has been exhausted, secondly by the extermination and tax-insurance charges imposed by the government and, thirdly, by the return of the country and the economy. Greek citizens have paid very much the third and unnecessarily memorial that is the creation of Mr. Tsipras. At the moment over four million citizens have a tax debt of EUR 104.4 billion, and a million fifty-five thousand citizens have a debt to the insurance funds of EUR 38.2 billion. In addition, a million thousand citizens have been seized and seven hundred thousand other citizens are confronted with seizures and auctions in the next period. All of these waited and waited for the measure of a hundred twenty doses to come out of the deadlock and mainly from the threat of auctioning and seizures. Unfortunately, however, the regulation is incomplete, since, first of all, income criteria are laid down with cuts, which essentially relate to the number and amount of instalments with the declared income. On the other hand, the proposal from the New Democracy includes without preconditions the regulation of the hundred twenty-dollars who have debts of up to EUR 20,000. Secondly, in order to bring the debtors into the arrangement, they should first pay off or settle legally the debts they left unpaid in the year 2019. In the first two months of 2019, the taxpayers left unpaid taxes of EUR 2,2 billion. Thirdly, there is a very small number of doses for businesses. In fact, a very small number of enterprises will be incorporated in the regulation since only twenty-four doses apply to the vast majority of legal persons. Fourthly, it is very short forty-five days in which the platform for integration into regulation will be open. The platform will be open until 28 June, and we do not know whether the government can assure us that the platform will be ready to work directly and without problems. Some may make use of these provisions. The general picture, however, is that this is an incomplete regulation, since what the country needs is an overall arrangement that includes not only the tax debts, the insurance funds and local authorities, but also red loans. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has announced the reduction in VAT in the focus and before its adoption and implementation, with the exception of the coffee, refreshments, juices and in general all the beverages. You received VAT on the focus, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, 13% and increased it twice, the first at 23% and the second at 24%. Basically, these four years of governance of Mr. Tsipras were lost. Because now what you are telling us is that four years later you will make an effort to get the VAT to the restaurant where the previous government handed him over to you and not all the goods and services. So, after four years, the rate will go where you received it. The same applies to the transfer of a large number of broad-consumption products and services from the reduced rate of 13% to the high 24% rate. The government increased VAT twice, the first at 23% in July 2015 and the second at 24% in June 2016 and today comes and triumphantly relocates some of them to 13%. That's where he picked it up. We are talking for four lost years, for four years that the Greek citizen has paid and paid dearly. We tabled an amendment to return all broad-consumption products to the reduced VAT rate in 2014, but also to include VAT reduction in the focus of non-alcoholic beverages, coffee and other beverages. It remains to be seen the government's attitude, which will be judged by the citizens. We also expect to see what the government will do against the amendment tabled by the New Democracy to cancel the tax reduction measure, a measure that you have brought and voted on. You who had promised to increase duty to 12,000 euros, you who received the tax to 9,545 euros, have for the first time reduced it to EUR 8,636 since 1 January 2016 and for the second time to EUR 5,681 with Law 4472/2017 in order to apply on 1 January 2020 and to be forced to pay for the first time tax of employees and pensioners of EUR 500. We all remember the Finance Minister saying in 2016 that he will resign if the tax is reduced below EUR 9 000. Of course, like Mr. Tsipras, he did exactly the opposite. He stayed here to make ingenuity and make bets. But the difference is that these bets are paid by the Greek citizen. However, the Greek citizen will speak and send the most resounding message that the Greek people have ever sent to a government, a message of condemnation and disapproval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u581	Thank you, Mr Besiropoulos, MP of the Imathia Prefecture of New Democracy. Theodore Dritsas, MP for SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u582	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, I think it is clear: the opposition, and especially the New Democracy, has already been defeated. Electoral will be defeated on 26 June and following on.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u583	Adopted by the
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u584	It's a month before the election.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u585	On May 26, you like me. We're not in a hurry, we're confident. But that's always the way it's done. Electoral defeat records an existing political defeat which is particularly recorded in today's and yesterday's debate in the most fascinating way. It is not the Opposition, and especially the New Democracy, what to say. We are learning an endless list - unsolved or unsolved, but which, in its view, considers them unsolved problems - problems of bankruptcies, that is, the legacy that she has brought to the Greek people, the painful situations and the disastrous policy that has led to bankruptcy. And, of course, bankruptcy still has extremes, unsolved problems, many and serious. That is what the Opposition and the New Democracy are all about, as if we do not know or have no responsibility for realizing and accepting and organising all our work in this direction, just how much remains to be done. And that is the main concern of this government and the ruling party. And we never reiterated that we supposedly saved the country or saved the Greek people. The Greek people will be saved from their own efforts and from their own systematic actions and productive and social cohesion and social solidarity and from the progressive treatment of all the dilemmas that arise in these difficult times. So the new Republic is making the problems pending by its leader, Mr Mitsotakis, who is certainly not a gaffe, a stressful attempt to differentiate and to show a certain political identity. And, of course, it highlights what it really has and which is diligent in other times, the extreme neoliberal, economic, social and political identity, its policy that is really political with a classic bias in favour of the few, and I will explain that what it really means. And of course, he adds great doses of yellowism with the greatest euphoria, as if he could prove that SYRIZA, the Prime Minister, his executives, his ministers are not the births of a struggling effort by the Greek society for justice, progress, social cohesion, solidarity, but are the births of a Malthalous life, a dream supposedly three-leaved life, as many of the well-known ruling class have been used to decades to view as models. This is the political defeat of the New Democracy and the Opposition as a whole. Faced with SYRIZA's very serious proposal for Greece and the Europe of many, he does not have to face up to and counter to a narrative about what that means. Because, ladies and gentlemen, Greece of many, the Europe of many, to be more specific - and it is from us more specific - is talking about needs, about the needs of the many. And here is the great role of the political and political plan and the government plan, in order to meet the needs of the many, in such a way that an overall plan can really be drawn up, that an entire country can move it forward, in a sustainable development, with respect for the environment, with work as the primary production power and not with the seven days of Mr Mitsotakis, who is trying in a thousand ways now, to have fun what he has really confessed to, what is his design. And in that direction, in this highly studied initiative by the Government and in the hundred and twenty instalments for the reduction of VAT and for the 13th pension and for everything else, it opposes the argument of benefits. But be serious, ladies and gentlemen. "Funds" were recorded as the term in the vicious period of the political system in Greece, the tactics of many governments, which we have experienced in the past, without any financial space, with waste, lending, forming relationships of electoral clientele. Those were the benefits. And that is why benefits as a term and as a concept are critical, because it was not a design of performance in society of what society is entitled to, it was not a series of measures, not just relief, but also reconstruction and social justice and development justice, through the stimulation of internal demand. On the contrary, all the measures that the government is presenting today as a follow-up to the previous ones, and all that it will present and then join, are of useful and very important choice, of boosting internal demand as a tool for exiting the country's crisis and development. Against this, we are opposed to theories and choices of who? The fans of fast, highly profitable capital and business as a tool for growth. This is the New Democracy's answer to both the seven days and everything else, which Mr Mitsotakis has occasionally excavated in recent times. And that's the fundamental stuff. For us work, even in unfavourable links between social capital and labour, is a key pillar of each country's development process and every society, a key pillar not only of justice, but also of development. Because only with work, so with workers, it can be sustainable growth, it can be coherent, it can have real goals both within the country, but also in the international environment, it can really be productive and it can truly justify people, their dreams, their aspirations, their expectations and individual and family and class collectively. That's a huge difference. And today, precisely thanks to the government's policy, we have come out of the memoranda and we can organise the future of this country. That is why this difference is of special importance. This is why the Greek people will judge both in the European elections and in the national elections as well. Work is a developmental size. Social protection, the needs of many, the social wages, the social state, all these are developmental sizes, are not benefits and it is an obligation for progressive and democratic planning to go forward and never return to bankruptcy again. This has clashes, it has battles, it has designs, it's not words, it's not play-- it laughed. That is why the staff, government, our staff, are the staff of workers, the staff of ministers, who are actually on duty at all times, because at all times they must not escape from finding the best solutions in this direction. And that is precisely the huge difference, and this is the defeat of the New Democracy which has been constantly recorded since yesterday with every speaker and every speaker going up in the Step. Formally, the defeat is recorded and it will be confirmed by election. It is no accident - and I am ending with this, Mr President, and I thank you for your tolerance - that against the most famous Vebber, the most cynical expression of the policies of austerity, intolerance, restrictive policies and targeting the extremes of measures in favour of the direct profitability of risk capital, against Vebber the Left in Europe is proposing - and of course it will then negotiate according to the election results - two people in society: a trade union miner and an environmental fighter and social claims. Make the comparison and you'll see what one proposal really means and what the other means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u586	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. We have two other speakers, Mr Stoyannides and Mr Syrgos. Mr Stoyannides Gregory, MP SYRIZA of Xanthi, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u587	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at noon on Sunday we all heard the statements made by the Chief of Police Vice-Population during his inter-Assembly interview, according to which the five-day work might be converted into seven days. We remind Mr Mitsotakis that the five-day week is a conquest of the labour movement and society in general, institutionalised through the national general collective agreement as early as 1975, and it has been a provision of an act of legislative content in 1980 and ratified by the first Article of Law No.1157/1981 and included in numerous collective agreements and arbitration decisions. It is shameful in 2019, instead of the world going forward, to talk about seven days of work, abolishing all personal and family life, despising every need of the individual. Instead of talking about harmonizing family and working life, we're talking about slavery! Mr Mitsotakis, of course, then, aware of the negative impact of his statements, has unsuccessfully tried to entertain the impressions, claiming that he was not talking about seven days' work, but about seven days' business. All he has achieved, however, is to make it clear how much he underestimates our intelligence. Labour legislation clearly provides for the possibility of continuous seven-day operation of enterprises. Where this is permitted, however, there is an accompanying provision providing for the working of staff. For example, by a presidential decree since 1932, which has codified even earlier provisions on working time, it has been defined as a general rule in industrial and craft enterprises that staff hours cannot exceed eight per day and forty per week. In undertakings which by their nature are continuously operated, personnel shall be altered to rotating shifts in order to ensure the continuity of the operation throughout the seven-day or six-day week period. In this case, however, it was predicted that the average weekly working time over a period of eight weeks may not exceed forty hours per week. In fact, the same provision has introduced an obligation for the staff to be rotated every week so that the working week group is working next week. All this, of course, is foreign to Mr Mitsotakis, because he has never worked in the private sector and does not really know the working conditions. I don't know if his advisers know about it. Maybe that's why they don't tell him right. In other words, I would like to say that the business has always existed and always operated legally, while the legislator has taken measures to protect workers employed in these enterprises, taking into account the specificities of their operation. Mr Mitsotakis, however, did not refer to this at all. On the other hand, he explicitly said that when a company agrees with the workers through an operational contract to go from five to seven days, with the agreement of the workers, with much better pay and with increased rights, and if both parties agree, we do nothing but recognise that we are in a world that is changing and that workers, businesses and the state must adapt to this new reality. These are Mr Mitsotakis' exact words. But we wonder: What new reality and what modern world is the New Democracy of Mitsotakis evangelizing? That of the working middle ages? Is this the violation of workers' basic rights? In order to salvage the prerogatives, in their subsequent statements the representatives of the New Democracy referred to the declaration as compulsory for the general collective labour agreement of workers in hotel businesses throughout the country, accusing the Minister of Labour that he has made seven days of work. Mr Brutsis invoked these in his introduction yesterday. But Mr Brutsis, who has tried to save his Chief, knows that labour law provides that, when a collective labour contract is declared compulsory, only legality is exercised, and the declaration, if the formal requirements are met, is a binding competence of the Minister. I shall table in the Minutes Article 11, which describes the obligations of the Minister. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Gregory Stoyannides, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In any event, the collective labour agreement invoked by the New Democracy in a completely affirmative way refers to five-day employment, whereas essentially repeats what the law provides for in the case of employment of the employed person on a day of rest, but provides that it cannot be concluded by the employee's employment to abolish five-day work. It is clear that this provision seeks to provide that any breach on the part of the employer of five days' work does not constitute the acceptance of the worker for the change of working time and for the conversion of the work system from five days to six days. So that everyone does not say what they want, and especially so that the New Democracy does not try, which has abolished the collective agreements and any process of effective consultation between the social partners, can convince the social partners that it will help workers, if they so wish, to violate their rights. In conclusion, I would like to say that we have heard from a member of the Opposition MP and a former member of the Ministerial Council of the Samara-Venizelos congress to defend collective bargaining and told us that the minimum wage must be fixed by collective agreement. I couldn't agree more. Unfortunately, however, he forgot to tell us that the minimum wage established by the national general collective labour agreement was abolished by them themselves in the sixth act of the 2012 Ministerial Council, where he himself was a Member and a member of this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u588	Undersecretary, say it clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u589	Yeah. A lot of what you do against the workers you forget, gentlemen of the counterpopulation. I inform you that the workers remember them and when the poll time comes, they will send you the message again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u590	Thank you Mr. Gregory Stoyannides, MP SYRIZA of Xanthi Prefecture. Before giving the floor to the last speaker, will the Minister for Labour, Mrs Ahtsioglou, speak to put forward the legislative improvements. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u591	Mr President, I am tabling a series of legislative improvements. They are mostly verbal and verbal. You'll see them. I think that if it is worth referring to two, the first is the possibility of granting the 13th pension to those under the pension scheme. They are pensioners mainly of the former Commercial Bank and the former Alpha Bank, who rightly demanded that, in the way the provision is, those who are in a pre-pension scheme and therefore only receive it as a pension, they were not expected to receive the 13th pension and we correct it in order to receive it as well. Of course, if they receive another main pension, we will take into account the main pension they receive. The second is that in those cases of pensioners who are already in some arrangement, because they had debts and are being retained under the previous regime one forty - that is, in reality, shared in forty instalments and retained by the pensions - we are doing so more favourably for them. So we're able, even though it was from previous rules, to be able to withhold them in a hundred and twenty instalments and not in forty and finally receive a higher pension. I think this is the essential thing that we are changing. The rest are mainly legislative improvements. You'll see them and whatever you need, you ask me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u592	Thank you. Last speaker for today is the Deputy of SYRIZA Prefecture of Cyclades, Mr. Antonis Syrigos. Mr. Syragos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u593	Indeed, I am the last speaker, Mr President. Nevertheless, the last ones stand first. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to raise three points which I shall be trying to raise as an unfounded response to the arguments put forward by the Opposition, as has been set out mainly through its parliamentary representatives: the framework for the successive initiatives taken by the Government, the earlier steps which have come to light, that is to say, the draft law and, finally, the conclusion drawn from this detection. The government at the first time it took over, had to face a severe crisis and had to choose the way. On the one hand, the economy had to be rectified, on the other hand, so that people would not be exterminated and, above all, I am talking about the weakest layers of the population. Her project looked like an acrobatic. I remember how strongly this was stressed in all the budgets to date, namely the strengthening of the weak by various measures, but with scrupulous steps, so as not to disturb the delicate balance of the economic status, as was the result of the agreements and programmes. Fixed and progressive steps in this direction were taken both at the end of 2017 and at the end of 2018 and, of course, through the strengthening of the financially weakest, who, despite being accepted by all and voted almost by all parties, were critically treated, without prejudice and suspicion, and were also designated as election benefits at the time. After the exit of 2018, we arrived, building slowly and as a follow-up to the aid from previous years and policy, in the current refreshing and refreshing measures, which have been structured, as it turns out, on the basis of a sound and structured plan for which one needs to assess the relevant government staff. The measures proposed are not only reassuring, but are attempting to remove injustices and facilitate the market itself or what is called purchase and consumption, which should not escape attention and the 'liberal' staff. As I have said, the measures are as far as possible and do not allow triumphs, which the government is wisely avoiding. What she asks, as they are measures of a lasting nature, demonstrating her horrendous efforts, is to assess her credibility and work, something that the Greek society is doing and will do very soon. After that, the designation of the measures as a pre-election service is very bad, because these measures are the natural result of a consistent economic process. In addition, in a country which is very difficult to define and distinguish the 'election period' from the 'election period', everything is considered to be pre-election. And that should not be tossed us, since since the election in 2015, in this case 2015, the opposition was calling for even today's persistent election, describing in this logic any measures taken as election. Election, therefore, support for 2017 and 2018, election and pension cuts, despite being compromised. Of course, it did not even pass through its mind the coordinate and gradual planning of the steps that led to the proposed measures, and it did not even appreciate that if there were no positive developments in 2018, we would not now speak of constructive measures. The election benefits, therefore, and we have come to an end, says the Opposition, bringing up the tons of voice and taking advantage of its credibility, which has been cancelled, using instantly, as it has proved, against any favourable and beneficial economic measures by the Government and its planning as the sole argument, the constantly repeated request for elections by the end of 2015. So today, her word, which at its core nests a similar demand, seems to be worn and unconvincing. Ladies and gentlemen, in the logic of the Left there is no room for 'competence' and 'give'. We're not giving a vote. What we ask of society is for our effort to be appreciated for our country to step on its feet and progress. Faithful to this perception, we do not ask for approval and vote as a contribution, but as a confidence and appreciation, as the ratification of a long, obscured, but optimistic and dynamic forward, which must continue. Finally, some expressed reservations about the measures, but not strongly, as is apparent from the accompanying texts and the dialogues, since they constitute 'favourable or equitable arrangements for the removal of injustices and equality'. In any case, however, the economic policy must be preceded, since the reservations are lifted. This is the main political footprint of the government, the most important criterion of its priorities and the most essential feature of its policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u594	Thank you, Mr. Syrgos. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-05-14-S1-commons.u595	With the consent of the House at 22.25' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, May 15, 2019 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "Adjustment of debts to Social Security Bodies, Tax Administration and OTAs, Public Pension and other insurance and pension provisions, strengthening the protection of workers and other provisions" and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the additional agenda distributed.
