ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Preparation of the State Budget for the financial year 2020’. Mrs Catherine Monument from New Democracy has the floor now. After the speech, Mrs. Notopoulou from SYRIZA, Mrs. Likoli from the Change Movement, our MP from the north, Mr. Antoniadis, and then Mr. Famelos. Here, Mrs Monument, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days the government budget for the year 2020 is being discussed in the Greek Parliament, the first budget of the Government of New Democracy with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. After many years of recession, we have a budget for growth and hope for the future. After the elections in July, normality in Greek society now goes to the Greek economy. This budget is a liberal budget with a social person and is addressed to all Greeks. In a difficult external environment with great risks for the country, which faces the threat of its national sovereignty, we are called upon to vote on the 2020 budget with specific economic, social and development objectives. Firstly, we are covering the budgetary gaps of the SYRIZA governments. Secondly, we have permanently reduced ENPIA. Thirdly, we proceed to large projects which have been frozen for years. Fourthly, we have reduced VAT and income tax, and the middle-class and low-income took a breath. Fifth, since the new year we have given an allowance for every child who will be born by strengthening new couples. Ladies and gentlemen, in my Prefecture, in the Cyclades, the new age of the shipyards in Syros began and the basis of the major investment in our country entered. In the shipbuilding economy that the Government of New Democracy has given hundreds of jobs it sends a message of hope to all Greeks without divisions and is directed at all the social strata and not by words, but by works. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, my colleague. Mrs Notopoulou is now called to Stepma. Here, Mrs. Notopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have won the elections with patriots, although you deny them, by nationalism, by populism, with false impulse. And unfortunately, your own numbers come to reveal your hypocrisy, betray you. You said to reduce the primary surplus, but you did not reduce the primary surplus by 1% - not enough - by using the guarantee bills. You are thinking, in other words, of this budget area of around EUR 2 billion, which could well be used for tax relief and social support measures. You said 4% growth, and today you write 2.8%, which we very much doubt, as do international organisations. You said for the support of the retired, but you're cutting them off the thirteenth pension. You said about reorganization of the banks, but Armageddon for first residence. You said about reversal of Brain Drain, while in fact you lead to the unemployment of thousands of young scientists. You said to support entrepreneurship, but 60% of businesses have no benefit from your policy. The benefits of lowering the rate will only be felt by 2.5% of all enterprises. You said about a net of protection for the weak and the middle class, but last year they received a social dividend of three million of our fellow citizens, and this year two hundred thousand. You said that you are supporting the middle-class, but since 1.18 billion of the reliefs, only 123 million will go to the social state. You openly support your best friends, your sponsors, your media. So you said too much, but none of that does. The budget gives you a lot of money and a lot of money. However, the worst of these are not your lies, the worst is your ideological obsession with an extreme neoliberal policy, the same that led the country to bankruptcy and the Greek society to a humanitarian crisis. Lower wages for many, lower taxation on large capital, a public-sector private parasitic sector. Even breath it for local self-government, you have set your sights and you do not even listen to your mayors, abolishing the program "PHILDIMOS". Let us now move on to the budget of the Ministry of Tourism, for which the Minister of Tourism was proud yesterday. And there lies, wrong tactics, fragmentary strategies. Thus, our country will be led once again by a central player in the tourist map of international developments in a follow-up to these developments. Yesterday the Minister of Tourism said that the SYRIZA government did not deliver anything. However, SYRIZA's works present in every interview with the international press, SYRIZA's works presented this step yesterday, such as the Athens-Shanghai flight, the opening of the tour schools, the first institutional framework for the thematic tourism that came from last year. Really, who thinks he's making fun of? He said we didn't deliver anything, that there were reductions in receipts, in inputs. However, the figures of the Bank of Greece, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, are flawing you. According to the Bank of Greece’s figures, the travel balance in June 2019 had a surplus of 2,424 million instead of a surplus of 2 in the corresponding month of 2018. In particular, an increase of 16.4% was recorded in June 2019 of travel receipts, which stood at EUR 2.6 million compared to 2,252 million in the corresponding month of 2018, while an increase of 25.3% was also observed in travel payments, as the incoming tourist movement remained at the same level as in June 2018. It seems that the Bank of Greece disagrees with Mr Theocharis. In five months, therefore, the Minister of Tourism did some things alone: the Fiasco of Samothraki's coastal blockade, the inadequate management of the collapse of its "THOMAS COOK". So we, who accused us of making a mistrustful criticism, brought in a series of measures, the operators of tourism, which were asked for the same measures. Why don't you implement them? Let's go to the budget now. For months, you have been advertising the budget increase in the Ministry of Tourism's funds. Last year it was 69 million, 69 million this year. Something's wrong with either your math or your imagination. You said an increase in the co-financed part of the public investment programme by 10 million, it is indeed there. But you did not say the reduction of EUR 10 million in the national budget. So, given this reduction, we have very serious concerns about the funds allocated to the operation of the Ministry of Tourism and also of the EOT. So we ask you how you are going to implement a series of outrages, such as your announcement of the establishment of the University of Tourism education, to upgrade tourist education, how you will form a new tourist product and how, above all, you will safeguard the EOT as the main pillar of the promotion and promotion of our country abroad. Do you intend to close the EOT offices abroad? Why don't you say it clearly? Do you intend to postpone indefinitely the opening of the EOT offices, as provided for in the new establishment plan? You're not answering any of this. You have, of course, made sure in your final state that you ensured the payment of a State Secretary, that you ensured a presidential payroll of the EOT, by charging the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the reduction of the appropriations from the regular budget and the immediate but clearly, we have seen a shrinking of the EOT proves that it is intent to gradually weaken public character in tourist promotion and promotion, and therefore you intend to leave the country's tourism product and its promotion in the hands of specific businessmen. You said that EOT was going to start advertising in January, but that money doesn't seem anywhere. You said sustainable development, but you forget that sustainable development to be sustainable must be fair and you have abolished the expansion of collective agreements and intend to start with specific economic zones. So today you are reducing the rate to specific minimum enterprises, instead of reducing the tax advance, instead of abolishing the trade fee, instead of abolishing the solidarity levy for incomes up to EUR 20,000. You yourself are talking about the importance of infrastructure, but you are stopping projects throughout the country. The conclusion is therefore easily drawn: the Government of New Democracy has neither a plan nor a vision nor an elementary tourism policy. Mr. Theocharis said that tourism is a national case and there are no micro-party contradictions. We agree on that, but there are no such deficiencies. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy you are determined to attack again on Greek society, but we too are determined to defend the achievements of the Greek people and the many.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u5	Mrs. Evangelia Likalis from the Change Movement is now called to Stepma and then the State Secretary, Mr. Mitarakis, will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is important, it is parliamentary institutions, peaks and closes the year, but of course it is also an image, a thousand words. It is the condensation of the policy that the new government has already announced in its programme statements. In other words, it's her mirror. This multi-page text is the political tool with which the government promises citizens solutions for small and large. It is the compass that promises to follow closely the roadmap that step by step will lead us to development. At the same time, it calls on citizens to begin to be happy. Citizens want to be happy, want to be optimistic, want to end the political ball, because they are tired, and because most of them have founded the shirt to get the cart out of the mud over-taxed, baked, and many of them are seated. After the fateful Karamanlis government and the subsequent bankruptcy of the country, after nine years of bloody sacrifices and fleeing some seven hundred thousand of our graduated children abroad, after nine years marked by three memoranda, infinite strikes, servitudes, sieges of the Parliament, after nine years with five different governments, most of them with different parties compositions each time, no one here can say "I didn't know, I didn't know". Citizens are waiting on Christmas 2019, but at the same time they look at the top of the annual parliamentary activity debate. They know that the 2020 budget should signal that we have reached the normality that you have announced and made it a flag, Mr Ministers, to swear to it every day. But is that so? First of all, have we changed the way we see and approach the budget, or are we treating it as a formal process of processing, a peculiar translation into the figures of a government's political wish - this year's oil, the year's memorial - a treatment perhaps of a purely close accounting approach, a treatment of sterile and static numbering of numbers followed by our parallel monologues? And let's not forget the genius of the well-known English scientist of the previous century, Lord Kelvin, that mathematics is the only remarkable metaphysics. So do we need to talk in metaphysics terms, or is our metaphysics left? If we continue on the well-known road so far, if we are to face the budget of so-called first regularity with the old accounting mathematical conditions, until where can we really get, I wonder. Where can we get to when we try to resolve the same equation again and again with the wrong terms and with the wrong sign. Can we expect that we will once come to the right result? I'm afraid not. It's your budget. We have our own proposal and we have to discuss your plan. This is, therefore, a low-flight budget, anti-development and social unfairness. Are they right? They're right. Do you know why? Because it is a budget that follows the example of the previous ones. It has basic victims of the small and medium-sized class, to which you give the cheese, but you leave right next door and the lentils. A budget which is again based on the well-known anti-development tripartite: constant taxation - the burden of small and medium-sized enterprises, low public investment, artificial restraint of expenditure. Your policy follows those who today show you with your finger and should, of course, not, because it is just ad hoc the policy followed by the previous SYRIZA - ANEL governments. What else does the provision for a primary surplus of more than EUR 7 billion really constitute? The previous two governments' commitments to a surplus of 3.5% of GDP by 2022 remain in full. You're not saying that. Gently. The current government has chosen not to renegotiate the percentage, to exploit it in order to redistribute overcrowds. So in SYRIZA's steadfast tactics the New Democracy follows. But you promised another six months ago. It has been set up in the past few days, ladies and gentlemen, a great communal game on the part of the government over the tax law passed by the House and I have watched it with great interest. The many advertised tax reliefs do not concern the incomes of those who have suffered the great tax bleeding of the previous years. It concerns very little of the very low to low incomes, but above all it concerns businesses, without, of course, implying that the financial staff have worked out a whole, holistic plan, even for them. Ad hoc fireworks for the 20:00 news one more time. By voting lightly, it is assumed that measures 10 days ago, you are coming today with the budget and you are putting the burden on the same category of citizens by means of indirect taxation, the most unfair form of taxation than anyone who can impose a state on the citizens and which SYRIZA has imposed on the citizens. If one reads carefully the peak of speech between direct and indirect taxation in recent years, one will see that the state is increasingly relying on the blurredness of the weak, the perpetrators I said before. Is it of particular importance, however, to increase VAT on a product for someone who has an annual income of EUR 15 000 and for someone who has an income of EUR 100,000, the same inactivity in the same bodies? Ladies and gentlemen, the government-applied galantomy is based on exhaustive surpluses and shows a deficit of central political planning. Where are your staff, really, Mr. Ministers? Where are your designs? Where are the staff finally to accomplish? So many hundreds of people of your infamous technocratic and political staff, who say that they are thinking in the new right direction, is it possible that what they gave birth to be based on something that has a ceiling, based on unbearable indirect tax burdens? So classic and so predictable now your staff? Finally, what we only have to say is that, unfortunately, you are keeping the exact same trumped-up, you are drastically limiting to local government, which is my area of responsibility, the national part of the Public Investment Programme and the financing of the city's technical programmes. Unfortunately, the OTAs treat them like some kind of political minors, who haven't yet learned to squeeze, how much more to walk. You want to depend on them, because you want to control them. Unfortunately, what we are observing and what we have to say is only one thing, that the policies of a government are sure that they do not start and end in a budget. There is a range of policy development for small and large. But the budget, ladies and gentlemen, is like the refresher of the song, Mr Ministers, you always find it in front of you and say it again and again. The point is, I'm trying to hear all your song, listen to your music, but instead of a piracy that will accompany your parade, as you announced, I hardly hear a subtle whisper. So I wonder: Is it possible to parade with whisper? It is not, in our view.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u7	The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Metarakis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the first budget of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the first budget of the Government of New Democracy, a budget committed to investment, growth, the reduction of unemployment, social cohesion, a budget in full agreement with the election commitments and our programme. In my speech last year as a special rapporteur I blamed the government at the time for having had a reversible budget, targeting a surplus of 4% with a 2% growth rather than a vice versa. In this budget, this latitude between surplus and growth closes considerably. We are returning rapidly to well-structured budgets and this trend will be consolidated in the coming years. In the 2020 budget, we provide for a total pension expenditure of EUR 29 billion, half of which come from contributions and the remaining EUR 14.5 billion from state subsidies. In the part of the social budget, we are moving towards a series of social interventions, which include EUR 971 million for permanent support for pensioners. We provide EUR 1.2 billion for development and support measures for society. We provide for the maintenance of the island VAT on the islands to which it is currently in force. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first day we took over from the Ministry of Labour, we have been trying to put order on the problems it caused to insured, employers and pensioners, the well-known Katorugalou law. The recent decisions of the Council of State have fully justified the permanent positions of the New Democracy. From the first moment we voted against this law and denounced the robbery behaviour towards productive Greece, in Greece that wakes up early, through high contributions, the depreciation of labour through low rates of replacement and the reduction of pensions through the cap imposed. The new insurance, which will be a law of the State at the beginning of 2020, decisively corrects SYRIZA's ideas. For the first time, free professionals will have an absolute freedom of choice for the contributions they want and can pay, at the same time knowing at the same time, at the same time, the future pension provision. But also in employed work we will reduce the weight of insurance, the lanes between the total cost of labour and the net wage received by workers in their pockets. We are reducing from 2020 almost a percentage point of view the insurance contributions. In total, over a period of four years, these contributions will be reduced by 25%, by 5 percentage points. We are strengthening the remuneration between contributions and benefits for many years of work, that the more you have paid and for more years the longer you will receive as a pension and we repeal the EUR 1.300 pound on the sum of principals and supplementary pensions, imposed by SYRIZA, without the necessary study. With the pilot trial that is now going to take place in January, we are giving a definitive end to the issue of retrospectives, an issue which creates great uncertainty among pensioners and puts the country's finances in a peculiar hostage. Of course, as a government, we are committed to full repayment of these retrospectives and a key to rapid repayment will be to improve the collection of contributions, due and not, as well as to improve the return on the funds' assets. I stress once again that we are firmly opposed to strategic malpractices, to those who have turned our insurance system into a financing mechanism toward themselves and have loaded the insurance funds. You have handed us EUR 35 billion in debt to the social security institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, 2020 is a year of station for our insurance system. It's the year of digital transformation. We are going to a state-of-the-art system aimed at helping the citizen, the insured person and the retired person. Great bet the clearing of outstanding pension applications, the operation of the digital pension ‘ITLAS’ for the day-to-day issue of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that a basic constitutional requirement is for the state to take care of social security. In this context we must determinedly move on to the institutional reforms necessary to shield the system against the demographic crisis, but also to future fiscal cycles. The biggest challenge of the pension is clearly the demographics. The purely redistributive systems can survive when we have four employees per pensioner. Today in our country we have 1,64 employees per pensioner, and in 2070 this relationship will be further reduced to 1,25 employees per pensioner. So we must move quickly and decisively to ensure the future of social security and we are already working towards alleviating demographic pressures. The effort to return Greeks abroad to the country, to support young families, which are included in the budget, to stop age racism, with a substantial reduction in pension cuts by 60% in pensioners, is measures that we are taking. But we need to take a step further. No system of purely distributive survives in an unfavourable demographic environment. The transition to mixed systems, as almost all countries in the world have done, with capitalisation elements ensuring that future generations have the right to social security. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget is balanced, between budgetary stability, social benefits and the development of the Greek economy. Citizens are already aware of the positive footprint of New Democracy's policies and the feeling of economic and social security will still be consolidated in 2020. For these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of the budget, the first real development budget at the end of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, may I have the floor, please, to ask Mr Metarakis something?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Metarakis, I listened carefully. I would like you to clarify this intervention you make in contributions, to reduce the so-called taxwage - what the employer pays, what a wage that pays him and how much this salary costs - how much the month lightens the workers, to see whether they are a large number or a small one. I wanted you to say it, not to say it, and you say I twist the numbers. The second thing I'd like to say is that under headings they don't have a chance to go low. Most of them are already in the lowest class with the changes that you make, and so they will have a great increase in contributions. But there is - because you are also an economist - and an externalist. You'll know, because you've watched the nobels who took the nobel on asymmetrical information, that in insurance we have the problem of negative choice. One thing that needs to be ensured by the insurance system is that everyone comes in and doesn't have so many choices that create externalities. Why should you tell us, when everyone goes to the lower class, how will this system be financed? Unless your strategy is this, everyone should go to the lower class. The richest will be able to obtain private insurance and the poorest insurers will pay again. We're afraid that's what you're doing. You know very well that an insurance system must internalise the externalities and you do not do so, because you think the inferior will have low pensions and the richest will find in the sun fate with private insurance. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u12	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I must stress that this will all be said when the insurance bill is introduced, so you will have time to stand there and say your views. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am particularly committed to following nobelists and you in your economic thoughts. It is assumed that with the insurance bill that the government will present, along with the tax bill that has been submitted today, the overall reduction in the burden of free professionals who have incomes, between EUR 5,000 and 10,000, is quite important and you will see the figures when they are submitted. So with a New Democracy Government the free worker pays less in total to the state. You will, however, ask why we are increasing the minimum contribution. We could reduce taxation and not increase the insurance contribution at all. Do you know what we'd do in this case? We would enclose the free professionals to the very low pensions provided by the Katorugalou law. So what have we chosen? We have chosen to increase a little the minimum contribution, which will have a significant increase in the pension to be paid by the low-professionals, so with a New Democracy Government the free worker receives a higher pension, but pays less tax, so cumulatively he pays less. So, the free trader's double-win. And less contributions and tax charges and more pensions than the one you enclosed with the Katorugalou law, because you admitted, Mr Chakalote, that most people pay 185. 185 creates pensions below the limits of poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd Haidari Municipal School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Ioannis Antoniadis from New Democracy is now called to Stepma and Mr. Famelos from SYRIZA must be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, good morning. After a Greek destroyed and crippled, as SYRIZA's colleague - and a gray and pessimistic Greek spokesman, as she was described by his colleague, the Change Movement insists that he speak negatively on one of the best Prime Ministers of Postpopulation, Kostas Karamanlis, let us actually land and regularity in a budget of optimistic and developmental, which implements the vision of the New Democracy of transitioning Greece from the era of SYRIZA, in the era of high wages, decent wages and work for all Greeks and Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the budget, my conscience does not allow me to make a brief telegraphic reference to three major issues, which, if we do not deal with immediately, will put the country into huge adventures. I am thinking, in Greek-Turkish, of aggressive Turkey, which has been depopulated by impunity. Secondly, in migration and thirdly, in the ingenuity of the Greeks. All three themes require the activation of all the forces of Hellenism, political, intellectual, technocratic and not only. All forces inside and outside Greece. They demand sympathy, ecumenicality and enthusiasm around the government and the face of the Prime Minister. Greece has always been in trouble. If, by means of poverty, decades and centuries ago, Greece has succeeded, it is now even more necessary and we will be able to do so. To be free today, however, and to enjoy the security and the good of democracy, thousands of battles and struggles were fought and rivers of blood were spilled from our ancestors. We must also ensure good prospects for our young people and future generations. All together, therefore, on these issues, not with bumpers, but with goodwill to give the struggle, which will surely be victorious, if we first defeat our evil self and discord. I must also inform the House that in Florina and Kosani, we signed a new memorandum when the country is almost out of the old memoranda. I'm talking about the closure of power plants from PPC lignites. The regions that gave their insights for industrialisation and the development of the country are today being tested and need the solidarity of all Greeks. We have declared the will of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and of all the government to provide assistance to western Macedonia and Megalopolis through a development plan for a fair post-linguistic transition. I assure my fellow citizens, the Floriniotians and the Floriniotians that they will not give up on their fate, but we will all fight against unemployment and unemployment, with incentives to businesses and infrastructure projects. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget reflects the prospects that today create a number of policies announced in the run-up to the elections, they have been voted in favour of the Greek people and are now being implemented. It is a budget that leads the country to normality, primarily by supporting growth and investment as a lever for growth and prosperity in the country and not for allowances and agglomerations. They are necessary, but it remains a priority for decent wages and work for all Greeks. The 2020 budget is not targeted and private initiative is not being persecuted. It is worth mentioning some important development and social interventions to support the family. Granting of an allowance of EUR 2,000 for each child born January 1, 2020, transition to the low VAT rate of 13% of infantry species. For natural persons a reduction in the income tax rate to 9% and an increase in the tax rate for each child and a reduction in the insurance contributions of full-time workers by about one basis point. Business support provides for a reduction in the income tax on legal persons from 28% to 24%, a reduction in dividend tax from 10% to 5%. In order to stimulate the building activity, VAT is to be suspended in the new buildings for three years and real estate gains tax. Reimbursement of some of the costs for renovation energy and aesthetic upgrading of buildings. For the first time, after many years, the heating allowance is given in time, i.e. at the beginning of winter, and indeed significantly increased. Some injustices observed in the first zone, we have been in consultation with Mr. Dogsky, since the new year to be corrected. This budget brings the GDP of Greece, after many years, close to 200 billion. It increases, in other words, by around 7 billion euros this year, or about 1,600 euros, by household. At a time when the growth rate is being revised downwards throughout the Eurozone, Greece is being revised upwards, 2% for 2019 and 2.8% for 2020. All the components of economic growth, namely consumption, exports and, above all, investments, are growing considerably. We don't triumph. We are realistic and we look the Greek people in the eyes and tell him that there are no magic solutions and easy solutions. The dangers always perpetuate in every hurricanes. That's why I said we don't triumph, but we're lifting our sleeves and working. We are voting on the 2020 budget and we wish good holidays for all colleagues and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr Antoniadis, and especially for keeping time. Mr. Famelos from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for each new year clearly reflects and reflects the budgetary and development framework of each country. As far as the finances and budgets of this government are concerned, I think we have said them in detail in the tax law a week ago. New Democracy cuts off many, cuts the dividend, increases the insurance contributions, increases PPC's cost, so that it can give few, 1% of the taxpayers, 2.5% of the businesses, to the real estate of more than 1 million. In order to achieve all this, it goes further to cutting down the social resources for SMEs, for the family, for housing, for all these essential social tools that are trying to discuss the subject of the demographic crisis. And otherwise, hypocritically, he's talking to us about fertility, apparently only to support the motto of family religion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u18	Say it right, at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u19	Correct it. You're right about that, Mrs. Bakoyannis. You will, however, allow me to refer to the development field, whose effects are more important and which are even longer-term. At the same time, they are important in income, tax revenue and public expenditure. There is no particular difficulty in recognising the development policy of the New Democracy and I would like you, Mrs Bakoyannis, to judge it together. So the New Democracy says: 'Our position is the privatization of everything'. Mr. Georgiadis said so in New York. Among them are the privatisation of water, energy and even monopolistic - yesterday Mr Hatzidakis was revealing - privatization of PPC, of the DEDDIE, of the IPTO, of the PPC, without a Memorandum of Understanding. The direct footprint of this policy is double: Increasing the cost of households and, at the same time, reducing the pay paid to workers. Mr Stournaras said so. The New Democracy's development plan is therefore privatization of everything, with a reduction in wages. It is a policy, that is, at the expense of all households, small and medium-sized working class, farmers, medium-sized ones. Everyone will have a reduction in wages and an increase in the cost of providing services. And be careful how. Without a collective agreement for the workers, Mr Brutsis and Mr Hatzidakis in PPC provide for the provision of the PPC. Without competition, because they interfere with the competition principle, they also create a monopoly on energy networks, so there is no question of competition, for example in gas. No transparency, no parity and an APA in recruitment, so with ruffles. Without unionism and without claiming it, Mr Chrysochidis provides for these issues with authoritarianism. They do so with marked cards and secret consensus, for example in the ambiguity of bankers, in the release of those deposits charged with financial crimes, in the tax exemption for UAE transfers, in the games to finance newspapers and, at the same time, with tools for defrauding society, now very clearly in front of us. Really, the bulldozers in the Greek won't come in? Because I knew a commitment that at least you would follow our timetable, which was the end of the year for the project to be completed, and for all the issues of the contract to be resolved. You are not even in our schedule, however, consistent. But is New Democracy's policy at least an environmental one, or is that another great lie? Let's get them in order. I see here two Ministers, one Minister from Imathia Prefecture and one Minister from Corinthia Prefecture. Previously, Mr. Metarakis was here, if I'm not mistaken, and Mr. Georgantas. There were four ministers, and yet I would like to say to them ministers who are here that the budget they have tabled is eight environmental bodies, including the laws of the ministers who here, and Mr Mitarakis and Mr Georgioda and Mr Dimas and Mr Besiropoulos. So, basically, the budget, to understand how environmental New Democracy is, closes because it leaves out of funding the following institutions: Vora's going to Vermio, Minister. I expect to see if you'll put in a budget for the institution in your region, even now. We're talking about Bermuda now. All the regions of Macedonia, from Kastoria to Bearonitis. In the Corinthian Gulf, Mr Dimas, you are leaving the institution out of funding in this budget. Answer me. Take the floor on the staff. Evia, the southern Peloponnese and the Kythera, the Cyclades, the North Aegean. Mr. Metarakis, that's out of budget. You won't have an environmental body, they say, at least, Mr. Stavros and Mr. Mitsotakis. And central and eastern Crete. So take the floor, Mrs Bakoyannis. This is the New Democracy's love for the environment! It closes the institutions of protected areas, the ornament of the country, biodiversity and the areas of NATURA 2000, leaving the road, at the same time, because they have not proceeded to the tender for four hundred executives, scientists, eco-browers, guards, who are already working on the other twenty eight bodies. And be careful. There is nothing in the budget for approved fire prevention policy and for two hundred new officers in the forest service, and the fire protection programme has been suspended, without even finding any follow-up to the experience and specialties that have been received by some five thousand workers. And from what I hear today, Mr Mitarakis, these workers who have stopped working have not been paid the last pay. Is that, at least, not a social policy, for what they worked to get paid for in the face of Christmas? They interrupt or find no solution for four thousand young scientists who work both in protected areas and in forest services - to see how they care about the environment - while at the same time creating the ultimate state to get postgraduate without degrees and with fees higher than those of public officials who have degrees. They promote investment at any cost, and environmental. I, too, expect a minister to come here to say that yes, we have received an investment project from the Hellenic FRYSOS, we have not announced it and we are negotiating it in secret. Because we have information from environmental organisations that this is the case. And while, in secret, they manage plans at the expense of the environment, apart from what they promote in Thrace, they at the same time destroy the historical urban environment of Thessaloniki, quickly making a decision by the Central Archaeological Council to destroy the ancient, history of the city, history of Macedonia, the history of Greece, which is today at "Venizelos Stavros". This is the government, the pro-environmental, the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u20	Lies! Lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u21	At the same time, they degrade the work of environmental inspectors, while transporting nuisances to Attica. They have no investment in the budget for energy savings in public buildings, while they target 38% savings in the energy and climate plan. And they say they will have a magic plan by Mr Stakoura, which will reduce the cost of energy 5% without telling us where this is going to happen. At the same time, they have terrible revolts, both the municipalities and the industry, for plastics, for recycling, with an incredible go - come on, and they simply have to implement a policy that says January 1st, you are applying citizens discounts on the basis of recycling. It's legislated and designed by us. If you're environmental government, why don't you do that and nothing from any municipality has yet been announced? And we are now coming to deprivation, ladies and gentlemen. It is a false announcement, without a plan, which goes back to cover a statement by Mr Mitsotakis to the UN, who in other countries are working hundreds of scientists, until Mrs Merkel or other Heads of State in Europe talk about it. That is what is happening in Germany. So you come here to talk about liberation, without a plan for energy and climate, while the only plan they are announcing is the privatisation of all the energy companies, so that the public will not have any energy policy. In other words, it must not have the natural gas networks or the energy networks. In fact, they have now announced a sale of the TEN, the medium-voltage networks and distribution networks, without a Memorandum of Understanding, compared to our own policy that we were trying to save the country from their own obligations. And you know why they're doing all this? They are very upset because they have not finally been able to achieve the sale of the "little" PPC that we have undone, the sale of the majority of IPTO that we have undone, the ownership of the state in the gas networks that we have succeeded in agreeing with the European institutions. They now want all of this to level up, just to get them back much faster in the worst memorial. And that, because that's how they're gonna drive at the same time for very few...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u22	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u23	Yes, Mr. President. It will be a owner of natural gas throughout the country and will depend on the expansion of natural gas, while at the same time holding no network for energy poverty, for the "just transition" of the areas that lie so far say they are going to make a plan. There are at the moment 31 million that will double the end of the year in the Green Fund for the 'Green Transfer' in Kosani, in Florina and in Megalopolis and do not give them. They're secured by the government of SYRIZA. Hypocrites. Otherwise, they will make a plan in 2020 for something that they have already announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u24	Mr Colleague, you've been to nine minutes and that's at the expense of other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u25	You're right, Mr. President. But we see how they care about PPC. The latest reports say...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u26	You can't have any privileges. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u27	...that with PPC increases tens of thousands of consistent customers are leaving PPC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u28	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u29	So that's their logic. Energy dependency of the country, increasing energy costs and a hypocrisy that they will make Land registers and Forest Maps that we did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u30	You're done, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Comrade, you've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u31	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u32	You keep doing that, Mr. Famele. You're the only one breaking hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is not just anti-development and anti-social, it is also counter-environmental.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u34	Do we have to turn off the microphone? I don't understand. Finish, Mr. Femmel.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u35	The development of our country, climate neutrality and transition to the future is a very serious matter to leave it in New Democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u36	Listen a little. This is at the expense of colleagues. They have sixty colleagues to speak yet. Parliamentary representatives and, possibly, the Heads of State or Government have not spoken. He's not gonna get us out of the program. We cannot deprive other Members of their time to the end. Mrs Avgerinopoulou from New Democracy has the floor. Then there's Mrs. Kafantari from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that Mr Famelos forgets that he was the Minister for the Environment himself some time ago, and that is why the environmental situation today is mainly due to the negligence of the same person. Just to tell you, for example, that a few days ago we had an OSCE delegation here in the country, which controlled the country for a lack of biodiversity policy and the protection of biodiversity belongs to the hard core of environmental protection. Also, management bodies had no money over the years, but also very important people, graduates and university professors working on them, I had hardly any funding. Voluntarily all of us from the environmental community are trying to help and rebuild environmental protection in that state. Also, some graduates, young people, who were hired to the ministries, were not even able to sit. At the Ministry of the Environment, the graduates, who were hired through work programmes, went to take pictures in the absence of photocopying machines. That was effective management. The New Democracy presents a budget that not only has sufficient funds and the capacity to absorb these funds, but plans and double them, as it will also combine them with European funds. Because in the field of the environment, neither the funds that were available were used, nor were they multiplied by the possibilities for financing which the European Commission has given us to the extent that they could. That's a small parentheses. We shall also discuss this in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget which the government is putting before us is a budget which promotes development, the social state, creation and peace. It is the first budget of the New Democracy Government to start implementing our election commitments for real development in the country. We do see that rapid, right, developmental steps are being taken, particularly with a particular social dimension. On the one hand, it is the positive course of the economy and the confidence we have built with the international community, so that we have achieved the best historical return of state bond. Institutional and private foreign investors want to reinvest in our country, not now because Greece is a country at the limits of bankruptcies, such as the red loans or the very low value of the land now, but because Greece is developing rapidly, while at the same time it is now a country with stability and consistency on whose chariot many want to attach them. I personally believe that since the reforms continue at the current pace, the sizes of the Greek economy will be even greater than the current forecasts. On the other hand, the budget being voted also involves a strong social figure, because it is not based on the overtaxation of the citizen in support of the State, but on the contrary is instigating a economically strong state that can support the vulnerable citizen. With confidence in achieving sustainable development, the legislator has already made a number of philosophical arrangements that find their economic foundation in this budget. We've reduced HISBIA and we'll reduce him further. We have reduced the tax rates. We've reduced the VAT. We are strengthening our family and child, young entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises and our farmers, and we are waiting for an increase in pensions. Significant humanitarian sectors, but also rural development sectors, are being given budgetary support. These are the main areas of education and health. And yes, I will vote for a budget that will allow more teachers and teachers to be appointed in the mountain villages of my prefecture. I will vote for a budget that will send more doctors and nursing staff to Elias' hospitals and health centres. I will vote for a budget that will allow me to make a playground for the children of Tripiti, a small mountain village of the Municipality of Cresten and Andritsina, who are now playing on the road at risk of injury every day. I will vote for a budget that protects the environment and public health, which will finance a biological cleansing at last in Varda and the municipality of Peñios, the exploitation of Caiafa in Sakhara, will continue the excavations in Figalia, will highlight Olympia in an international sports and educational centre and will strengthen higher education in Amalada. It will strengthen the ports of Kylini and Katakolos and allow us to build the main transport bays to and from Elia. I have to make an important point in advance. If the European funding for the completion of the Olympian road does not go forward in the Patras - Tower - which I hope will - the State budget of 2021 should also contain this line for the completion of the road, because the Patras - Tower is a commitment of our Government and will be made. Let us hope that the flaws and flaws of the previous government will not lead us to the loss of European funding. Because it is not enough for a state to have money to manage it, but it must also be able to absorb it. In conclusion, I would like to stress the importance of a joint vote on the United Nations budget. We anticipate valuable funds for the Ministry of Defence not only to strengthen our country's deterrent capacity, but above all because this budget is a budget of peace and honour. We honor the Armed Forces and their families, we guarantee peace in the wider geopolitical region, and we exploit the potential and knowledge of the Armed Forces in peacetime to prevent and tackle natural disasters and help in humanitarian crises. In the context of parliamentary diplomacy, I would like to encourage, with respect for parliamentarians, Members of all the Mediterranean parliaments to remain, as they are, firmly attached to the tank of the Public International Law. Because international law is what ensures peace and prosperity for our peoples and enables our parliaments to vote for every end of the year of peace and cooperation budgets so that we all look for the future with optimism. To close, I wish a great deal to everyone and to your families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u38	I would also like to thank Mrs Agrinopoulou, especially for the time she has taken. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to my House that from the above Western theory they are attending the meeting, since they participated in the educational program "Worker of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and a training session from the 15th Municipal School of Kallitheas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Harula Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA. Then to prepare Mr Anastasios Hadjivassiliou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot say a word about what we have heard before my colleague on education and recruitment in education. Launched recruitment and a secured budget of 22 million for recruitment in Special Education by the Ministry of Education in the SYRIZA government do not go any further. And we come here and say, 'We're going to take up education.' I come to the point now. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget really is a very serious issue in parliamentary matters. It is an important parliamentary moment, because it sets out economic, social and environmental policies for next year, and indeed concepts and any ideas may exist from the political forces, depending on their position on the budget. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, we heard the Minister for Energy, Mr Hatzidakis saying: 'A budget of opportunities for all'. We ask: What opportunities? We believe that it really is an opportunity budget for large capital. And I'll come more specifically to say what I mean. The Minister of Development, a week ago in New York, asked questions about privatizations and why they do not go ahead, said: "Our appetite is so huge, every month that it gets even bigger." This perception shows, precisely, the perception of the New Democracy, which is reflected in the budget. Your policy is privatization, tariff increases, violation of social goods. This is the hard neoliberal model of New Democracy's development, as I said in the budget. The election announcements of the New Democracy are false. It turns out after each other. What did the New Democracy promise by electoral means about small and medium-sized enterprises, about the weak? He promised tax relief for employees, pensioners, small and medium-sized enterprises. Instead, however, one-sixth of the 2020 reductions concerns two hundred large enterprises with profits of more than EUR 7.5 million. 2.5% of SMEs benefit from lowering rates, of course, from 28% to 24%. 60% of small and medium-sized enterprises, however, have no profits, so they have no benefit. Nine out of ten companies have profits of up to 5,000 euros. Their gains with the new tax, which is also reflected in the budget, are 200 euros a year, an amount which will be eliminated by the increase in PPC's tariffs, which for businesses is around 15%, by the increase in insurance contributions and so many others. Of course, that's not all SYRIZA says. Even POMIDA made a statement and spoke about the fact that we are looking to find tax relief bills for small and medium-sized enterprises. BSE, of course, has a different view. We now have a reduction in benefits in vulnerable social groups. Nine hundred and fifty thousand people will get a social dividend of three and a half million that they took in 2018. We have 400 million reductions in social benefits. I come to the question of electricity reconnections for vulnerable social groups, which due to debts and due debts have lost the good of energy, to say that. In 2018, more than 15 million were provided by means of a special account and more than four thousand households were reconnected to electricity. Here, I also have a question that we tabled SYRIZA Members in August and we were asking about this. In the answers we have received, PPC states: "In order to benefit from this measure and other households, the appropriate decisions of the State should be taken". I asked the relevant Minister in the Trade Committee about this: 'Why in the 2020 budget is nothing involved?' But I haven't got an answer yet. I now come to the gas sector, and I ask: will the private person go to the mountains, to the remote regions, when you, with your announcements, are talking about the effective privatisation of DEPA, the infrastructures, the Network DPA? How's this thing going to happen? Not to say, however, on the other hand, and the announcements made by Mr Hatzidakis yesterday about IGB, about the interconnection of the islands, for EastMed, of projects launched by SYRIZA, have started and others have been completed. But he told us some new ones, too. He told us about the full privatisation of the networks, whether high, medium, or low-voltage, to further privatise the IPTO, which at present has 51% with the policy of the SYRIZA Government. Now, he's talking about further privatization. This new IPTO also participates privately. Because you're telling us that the Left is allergy with the private initiative and foreign capital in Chinese. Now you're going to privatize him completely. He again brought the issue of the TEN, the low and medium-voltage networks for privatisation, and, of course, natural gas, as I mentioned before with the full privatisation of the PPA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Our country, ladies and gentlemen, came out of the memorials in August 2018. The budget must be of a different nature, because now our country must be of a development nature. But your budget is turning us back. The new budget had to have a 50% reduction in tax advance, a abolition of a solidarity contribution of up to EUR 20,000, a reduction in HICP in 2020 of 30% in mid-term, 50% in small and medium-sized incomes, an increase of 7.5% in the lowest wage. Of course, all of this was - and they are - the planning of SYRIZA on the basis of the use of the financial space that we have created, and the cash surplus. For us, the budget must incorporate the dimension of climate change at all levels, in line with the Green Deal guidelines, which the European Union has recently published. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. Europe is heading to climate neutrality in 2050 and complete carbon decommissioning. It is not enough, ladies and gentlemen, to close lignite units in 2023. How's it going to happen? What's this planning going to be? The main role in your plan is reflected in the National Energy Plan and the Climate plays in natural gas. But natural gas has a negative ecological footprint. Secondly, the European Investment Bank recently announced its intention not to finance infrastructure investments in natural gas networks. This is a serious matter. Of course, how will these projects be financed by private individuals? How will projects of common interest be financed? I'm talking about natural gas. We, ladies and gentlemen, upgraded the country geostrategically...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u40	Mrs. Kafantari, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u41	I'm done. ...with tripartite, quadruple meetings and contacts in the Southeast Mediterranean region with active foreign policy. But do you intend to maintain the country's energy, transit, digital hub, peace and development factor in the Balkans and the South-East Mediterranean region? That's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u43	Here you go, Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u44	If SYRIZA's colleagues continue to scare the clock, we realise that it cannot be accidental. It means there's a line not to talk to the rest of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, in respect of only the other Members, please make an effort, even for the types, to keep up the time that the Bureau gives you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u45	Mrs. Bakoyannis is right. I've stressed it myself. We cannot respect the Members who will speak at the end. I have explained that they are still fifty-eight Members at the moment when the parliamentary representatives and, of course, the Heads of State and Government have not spoken. This thing can't be done. We must respect colleagues. No one in this Chamber has any privileges more than anyone else. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber of ENIZELOS and informed of the history of the building and the way this House is organized and running, forty-five students and students and three attendants of their teachers from the 2nd General High School of Amarousio (First Chamber). The House is calling you back. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're continuing with Mr. Hatzivasiou from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the country's leading economic law, which gives the mark of our own perception, the law describing the priorities we have in 2020, a budget ambitious, politically visioned, aimed at economic development for all Greeks, and that is why it is a patriotic budget. Mrs Kafantaris called us 'fakes' a little ago. However, the positive measures that we voted on some time ago disprove the same thing: a 9% reduction in income tax, a 24% reduction in corporate tax, a reduction in employee contributions, a reduction in VAT on special categories, support for building activity. All this will bring growth in investment and employment and will contribute to a wider improvement in the economic climate. Indicators have already improved. This time last year IOBE said the scale index was 97. Now she's reached 107. This means that we are setting the foundations for a strong tomorrow's economy, and that is just the beginning. We are also optimistic about GDP growth at 2.8%. This practically means 7,000,000 euros or about 1600 euros a year for each Greek household. So a period of hope begins today. With the incorporation into the budget of all the development measures decided by this government at last, the cycle of overtaxation and the excessive surpluses that you have inherited us, the SYRIZA government. More importantly, this hope is not just based on wishing, it is based on hard work, the responsibility and the seriousness shown by this government. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget also has a strong social dimension. It includes family support measures, an increase in the expenditure on hospitals through the special reserve and an increase in the appropriations for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Some in opposition say that today we are increasing inequality and not looking after our fellow citizens. But how do you say that? You are accusing us, for example, of allegedly reducing the heating allowance. And yet, this year the government gives it increased and earlier. That's the reality even if you don't like it. So when all these measures are included for the weak, when we support the family with an allowance of EUR 2 000 for every new child, when we reduce taxes, is that not real support? But you do not want citizens to be free to make their income available as they wish. You want them to be bound up with the micro-subsidies that you have sadly shared for many years. The budget has also included measures for farmers. Today I am pleased that we are voting on appropriations to improve production, we are voting on increased exports of products, their insurance. We are exploiting the CAP, we are strengthening farmers through the ASEAN, we incorporate funds of EUR 8 000 000 into the Public Investment Programme for Agriculture, and we are delivering immediately, as Mr Vorides said yesterday, EUR 20,000 000 for improvement and processing projects for farmers. In recent years, too, we have had a bad phenomenon, migrating thousands of young children from the country. We lost the best minds in the country. And if not everyone comes back, at least we need to shape the framework for people to return. This will actively contribute to the reduction of social security contributions and the modernisation of the state. In this respect, the budget provides for expenditure on rationalisation of the operation of the public administration and an important ambitious plan for the digital age. In addition, our priority is to support innovation and new entrepreneurship. That is why we motivate innovative businesses and new technologies in the budget, which SYRIZA had completely neglected in the past few years. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving with confidence and a strong economy, for a Greece that is not afraid of the future. We rely on the labour and productivity of all Greeks. We are fighting to guarantee them security, stability and prosperity. That's why we vote. And let me also comment briefly on the current national issues. Last week the government managed to create a single front of the twenty-seven European Union towards Turkey, and this is a very important tool. Also an important tool is the compassion and harmony shown by political parties in the Foreign Policy Council. However, it is important that the opposition should show the same consensus outside the Foreign Policy Council. Time requires responsibility from everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for keeping time. Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos from SYRIZA is now being asked to prepare Mr. Constantine Maravegias from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u48	Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u49	Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u50	Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your wishes. Be well, good holidays to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u52	Happy birthday, Mr. Kalematian.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Today all Dionysies and Dionysies celebrate. The budget vote recommends the presentation of the government's programme, recommends the presentation of the government's work for next year and more generally. They are the unveiling of the government's policy before the citizens who voted for it and also before the entire Greek people. I'm trying to put myself in the position of the voter who believed in your election promises. They were condensed in a medium-class record, wage support and purchasing power of households. It was reported that you would bring more well - paid jobs and jobs. Eventually, however, the middle class sees its expectations of being crumbly crushed. Initially, the workers, in five months' time, see you horrificly degrade the operation of the Labour Inspectorate, which means fewer quality and quantitative checks at workplaces, abolishing the existence of the main reason for the validity of redundancies, which means easier redundancies. You are watched with fear of dissolving collective labour contracts and collective autonomy, as you did at PPC, which means worse paid jobs, less wages. What do you do for workers? You compress wages and deregulation the labour market. Repeat all those Memorandum Policies of the International Monetary Fund that led to a protracted economic crisis. Who was that? Reducing 25% of GDP, 27% unemployment, two hundred thousand businesses that have closed down from your policy. In a few months you have proved that you are the most loyal followers of austerity policies for many and gifts for the few and mighty. Then, small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises. They remember, of course, what you were saying in an election. You promised that they would pay less contributions, that they would see large tax reliefs, and that they would be involved in the product of the huge growth you would bring. You were talking about 4%, now we see 2.8% and of course no serious organism agrees with this number. What do they see instead of them? EUR 17 tax reduction for some, an increase in insurance contributions for 85% of the free professions, i.e. by 25 euros per month more contributions and an additional 24% increase for young scientists under five years. So it seems that you are facing the fleeing of our young people abroad, the phenomenon of Brain Drain. Allow me to make a reference to this. You create a programme for five hundred new jobs of scientists working abroad to return to our country. At the same time, however, you do not renew and lead to our dismissal of four thousand young people who are already working. They are our young, scientists, who have postgraduate, doctoral, working with the program that the SYRIZA government has carried out and you're firing them, you're kicking them out, to bring you five hundred. That's the nerve, that's the mockery that goes beyond every limit for our young people. Then we have the retired. What did you promise the pensioners? Increases in pensions. That is why you are also abolishing the thirteenth pension instead. Mr. Metarakis left too before. You accused us of electively giving it a gift. Ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, I invite you to read the FEK of Law 4611 of May 2019. This stipulates that the thirteenth pension will be a permanent, stable benefit, a permanent, stable pension. And it was given for partial restoration of the cut gifts and allowances of the cut third and fourteenth pension, which you cut with the n.4093/2012. The rule of SYRIZA is coming, it restores the thirteenth pension, and you say now that you will cut it. And you're saying you're going to make an increase! Only our pensioners will lose from 300 to 800 euros. That was the restoration we had anticipated, I repeat, stable in time. I invite you not to bring a law that abolishes it, because the coroner and the pensioners are given a certain amount, and I analyzed it. You have given large-scale property owners a discount, you are reducing taxation on shipowners and large incomes, and of course there is nothing to give our retired people. You do the same in poorly populace, that is what you accused us of feeding crumbs. From the improved economy we have delivered you - because we have given you improved economy and you cannot say that we have delivered you "burned land" and you do not, rightly so - for the social dividend of 2018, in the last year, that is, the governance of SYRIZA, the sum of EUR 780 million was allocated to three million seven hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. You now come and share 178 million euros in two hundred and fifty thousand households. These are the things that have obviously been left of the gifts to your friendly businessmen. Reduce the tax on the remnants of athletes and give relief of 17 euros to small incomes. That's your policy! But are they all unhappy? No, of course not. The rich and chosen have every reason to be happy and to support you with their media. Make donations to them, graceful arrangements, tax exemptions, discounts on HNVY, wage pressure, reduction of the right of strike and collective autonomy, reduced costs for the social state and much more. For the vast majority of the people, the middle and small incomes, you only have austerity and repression. But allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to make a reference to a few figures. When the Bank of Greece says it in its report that your policy will lead to a reduction in wages and redundancies, you come to the budget and anticipate a reduction in unemployment. In fact, by two percentage points, and an increase in the amount of insurance contributions. These are your magical finances, which we expect to see at the end of the year if they will be implemented. You have decided to show your most anti-linguistic face to the poor, so you are reducing the allowance for people with disabilities, family allowances and rent benefits. It is also characteristic that while the SYRIZA government has fought hard to reduce unemployment and reduce it by nine points, you come and reduce the amount for the OAS employment programmes. It is certain that this option will lead to an increase rather than a fall in unemployment. Finally, pension expenditure appears to be reduced by EUR 200 million. This means that you won't publish the pensions that we had started to publish in time. So we already have fifteen thousand overdue benefits that have not been provided. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, I should like to refer to my special homeland, Elias, which is a typical example of the regression and destruction you have been able to bring within five months. You have made fun of its citizens that you will immediately proceed to development projects concerning her. Unfortunately, we see the Minister for Infrastructure delaying the development of the process of the implementing Patras - Tower motorway and changing the planning for the rail crossing from Patras, which would lead to Elias. Also, we see the Minister of Education announcing the suspension of operation of the Department of TEFA founded by the SYRIZA Government at the Tower, along with another thirty-seven departments. And I say again that the government of SYRIZA has founded three university departments in Elia and now comes your own governance that either abolishes or suspends them or deceives them. You are also abolishing the "Philodimos" programme from which several municipalities of Elias expected to complete development projects. Not only do you not go ahead with the projects that SYRIZA's governance has achieved, but you are destroying them, degrading them, and you are progressing almost nothing further.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u54	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, with the wishes for many years I have lost some time. I celebrate today, give me the right to say two more words. I'll be done in 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u56	Because of your celebration, we'll tolerate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u57	I'm celebrating, Mrs. Bakoyannis today, so I have the right. Mr. Metarakis has come too now for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u58	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. In the neoliberal sense, therefore, you show a class division against the social majority of workers, farmers, small and medium-sized enterprises, young people, scientists, the unemployed, our pensioners. You are showing you are worthy of representatives of the few and strong who support you. But the numbers are vague. Today the last delusions are falling apart. We are voting against, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the budget, a budget of yesterday, anti-development, anti-social, a budget which introduces new burdens for the vast majority of the people, a budget that is at the reverse of the needs of society. We will oppose him with all our powers, along with all the progressive and democratic citizens who see that, if we want a sustainable and fair development mark, this is only done with a strong social state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u60	Mr Stavros Kalafatis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for years now the Greeks have been used to say 'every last year and better'. And the worst thing is not to say it, the worst is that it was accurate. That was the reality. In the years that passed, the Greeks lost income, wages and pensions. We've lost the expectation of better days. We've lost our optimism. Today we can say that that period has expired definitively. We can say it started a new era. And we will say this by voting on the 2020 budget, the budget that marks the end of the catastrophe and the beginning of a new path, the budget that starts at the beginning of the economic upswing and the raising of our society. Only six months after the election, the data do not allow doubts. The final fee for capital controls was paid back the most expensive part of the IMF's loans, the cost of public borrowing was drastically reduced, the ten-year bonds record historically low, while the lent note has negative interest rates. The economic climate index is moving above the Eurozone average. The consumer confidence index is above the levels of the last nineteen years. The general index of the Exchange climbs to 900 units. The Greeks, as they point out all the measurements, find again the optimism we have lost. The markets give a vote of confidence in the prospects of the Greek economy. They cast a vote of confidence in the government's policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget makes the beginning of closing the vicious cycle of overtaxation. Not only does it impose additional restrictive measures, but it also reduces the burden that has accumulated in previous years on households and businesses. Already in the new tax law, taxes on businesses are being reduced, incentives are being introduced to attract foreign capital, a rate of 9% for incomes up to EUR 10,000 is being introduced, measures are being introduced to increase the income of workers and support the family. Enterprises and households are getting rid of taxes of EUR 1.2 billion. Everything that Kyriakos Mitsotakis said at the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki is being done. Everything we said we do. Ladies and gentlemen, just before the elections those who were running to deceive the citizens and undermine the next government's path, they had shared Easter even the Christmas gift, they had exhausted all the financial margins, forcing the then chalk of the economy to confess that they had not even had to reduce VAT on coffee. Leaving, they had chosen to burn the seeds and tear down the bridges. Even the Commission's reports provided then that the target for the 2019 surplus will not be reached. Nevertheless, we reduced HNPH by 22%, increased the heating allowance, covered debts to PPC, granted increased widow's pensions, and now we share exceptional financial assistance to all disabled people and to all multiple and single parents who have unemployed members. Today, despite the opposite forecasts, the 2019 targets are being achieved and solid bases are being created for a better new year. The growth and investment gap, which kept Greece soaring in investment and a champion in unemployment, is being addressed and is increasing GDP by 7 billion euros, compared to this year, for each household. But the good news doesn't end here. On the contrary, as the Prime Minister has already said, the best things are ahead of us and they are gradually coming. The Eurogroup has just decided to set up within 2020 a working group to change the use of the profits of Greek bonds held by the Eurosystem central banks in their portfolios. What does that mean? That this money, which is around EUR 1.2 billion for 2020, will be reimbursed not only for the repayment of the debt but also for other investment purposes. So in 2020 there will be an even greater financial space to support development, the relief of taxpayers and the strengthening of our weakest fellow citizens. At the same time, in 2020, conditions will be created that will further increase the budget area in 2021. Just recently at the summit, the Prime Minister developed our proposal to reduce primary surpluses and it is certain that we will find a response. After all, the commitment to a surplus of 3.5% has already been overcome by developments, as the country is borrowing cheaper than ever and confidence in our economy is being strengthened every day. We therefore believe that in 2020 we will have good news for 2021 as well. Let us not forget, after all, that one unit of GDP is about EUR 2 billion. And an agreement on lower surpluses will give our economy significant additional resources. However, we also note the HERAKLIS project, which will relieve banks of a large volume of red loans and allow them to provide liquidity to businesses and support households. We also note the reduction of HPAI, the three-year suspension of capital gains tax, the also three-year suspension of VAT, the reduction of the tax on renovation work for buildings. They are decisions which already stimulate building activity and help create new jobs. Decisions they collect, so that our homes can regain the value they have lost. We also note that within time the favourable arrangements of the Development Act "Investing in Greece" will begin. At the same time, strategic investments that have been left on paper and drawers will have been unlocked. Of course, the ESDP programmes will be running faster. And with all this it is more than certain that in 2020 we will have new investments, new businesses and new jobs. The unemployed will be considerably reduced and the workers will have better incomes. Ladies and gentlemen, all the facts, all the estimates, all our policies lead with certainty to a new better year. "Every last year and better" ends here. The country stands on its feet again, Greece reintroduces the investment map, Greece claims the future it is entitled to. From now on, the Greeks can be sure that they come for better days. From now on our children won't leave, but they'll be back home. From now on, we can rediscover the expectations, hope, the dreams we have lost. With these figures, with these perspectives, we say 'yes' to the 2020 budget, 'yes' to the first budget of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, 'yes' to the budget that leads with sure and solid steps to our homeland in the future. The worst part has passed, the best ones are coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u62	Mr Maraveyas from New Democracy is called to Stepma and then Mrs Theodora Augeris from SYRIZA will be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, anyone listening to this year's budget debate will certainly be confused because it is called upon to solve a paradoxical mystery. How is it possible for the New Democracy Government to go ahead with tax relief for everyone and financial support for the weakest, while, as the Opposition says, depositing a budget literally similar to that of SYRIZA 2019, Mr.Scandalides said so, or relying on the definitive abandonment of the reduction of surpluses, as the SYRIZ rapporteur, Mrs Papanatziou said. Indeed, they question the growth rate of the economy provided by Mr Stagioras and say that 2.8% is not realistic for 2020 when on your day it was less than half. So the reasonable question arises: How does Mr Mitsotakis manage to return money from overtaxation and to plan, at the same time, increases in pensions? When critics tell us that money is the same. I am here on a small backdrop to clarify something that SYRIZA's colleagues do not understand. We have two types of surpluses, the primary, which is nominal, and the final surplus, which is the result of the budget. Of course, what has been committed and will be done in 2020 too is to mitigate the final surplus, what will result from the actual implementation of the budget. Because we want to stop the Greek society's total bleeding policy implemented by SYRIZA to finally keep money in the real economy. This does not mean, as the Prime Minister from Brussels said a few days ago, that we do not aim to reduce nominal surpluses, agreed with the lenders from SYRIZA. Obviously, we will renegotiate and manage, contrary to the seventeen hours of tough negotiation after which we have reached the bottom. And all that is understood by every good-for-nothing man, but not by SYRIZA, of course. You blame us for not immediately reducing the primary surpluses and, as you say, Mrs Papanatsiou, ignoring what the Prime Minister said in Brussels, we are supposedly abandoning their ultimate goal of reducing them. SYRIZA obviously doesn't read the interviews of Mr. Mitsotakis, because he prefers to study other things and so here he applies your opponent's goblinic method of enclosing in the goals that you set yourself arbitrarily. So SYRIZA says: “Why does the Mitsotakis not now, as he supposedly promised, reduce the primary surpluses for 2020?” So let's see what the Prime Minister said in Brussels and what he said in a Belgian newspaper before the elections in May. "I have explained why some rules from the past, rules of strict budgetary discipline, such as the extremely high primary surplus, have been overcome by developments. Greece will raise the issue of primary surpluses and their reduction from 2021. We believe the soil is mature. We are absolutely consistent and everything we have said in the economy and not just," the Prime Minister stressed in the interview in Belgium. I now read what the President of the New Democracy was saying in May 2019. ‘The government which will arise after the national elections shall negotiate a change in the objectives so that the new lower primary surplus will apply as from 2021’. No difference between him and him. No abandonment of objectives from the New Democracy. Just the opposite happened. SYRIZA is just trying to reverse reality. And you follow the same practice every time you talk, colleagues of SYRIZA. I am fed up with hearing from the time I stepped on my foot in the House that the New Democracy revised its position in the Prespecies Agreement, that it revised the "sea has borders" and so on. Towards the end of yesterday's debate, Mr. Paulakis referred inaccurately to the alleged first placement of these days of a robotic system of surgery Da Vinci in the hospital "Granomas" financed by the overcrowding. It's a shame he's also a surgeon, but for his bad luck a surgeon is the one listening to him. Since 2008, this system has been operating and I give you for the Practical article of Dr. Nikitias from the official website of the "Lual Hospital". This doctor was one of the first to use it and confirms what I'm saying. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Maraveyas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, your nerve has no limits because the equipment was decommissioned due to poor maintenance. And I'm not saying it, Stavros Theodorakis says it in his article at the "LEVERRO TYPE" in 2017, which I also quote in the Minutes. [[At this point the Member, Mr Constantine Maraveyas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Chief of the River passed away in 2017. It, however, adapted privately to operate robotics, since, as stated in the article I have already mentioned, the system did not work because of non-preservation from a year and a half earlier. The conclusions of yours. Ladies and gentlemen, as my fellow citizens' reaction to Magnesia reveals, the Greeks are optimistic about 2020 and happy, because in 2019 Kyriakos Mitsotakis surprised them. Society itself has received positive contributions from the new government in the first half of the New Democracy. The reason why SYRIZA ignores all this can be explained by his isolation in Greek society. What concerns all Greeks, however, is the future of the country, its strong growth and its relaunch, which is reflected in the 2020 budget. So in order to return to the original mystery, we really need to answer this question: Since 2020 the measures of the financial relief of the citizens of New Democracy, where do the money come from? How did the money come back to society? Where did we finance the ENPIA, which was already in 2019? Who printed the money to give the widow's pensions you didn't give, SYRIZA colleagues? I can go on with many examples, which simply prove and underline the same paradox that I have mentioned. How can it be possible at the same time to apply what they say SYRIZA and Change Movement for stagnation and at the same time bring in 2020 new tax reductions and insurance contributions? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The experience of 2019 alone gives us the answer. And what is true is the reality and not the distortions. The reality, then, is that the New Democracy has decided to return a large part of the looted money from SYRIZA to the Greek people, and this is the famous surplus, it is the famous class division, which he formulated and applied against all those who had an income from wherever it came. If you were a middle class, you shouldn't have just paid SYRIZA's heavy taxes, but you had to pay additional contributions, after all, "you have to give", as Mr. Petropoulos said. He was the same Undersecretary responsible for social security and was allegedly asked by merchants, when he went to the stores, to increase insurance contributions. This distortive mentality imposed between 2016 and 2018 on taxpayers with approximately EUR 11,5 billion in addition to the primary surpluses that SYRIZA had agreed with lenders.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u64	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u65	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Watch out, 11.5 billion additionally, for you tormented from Greek society until last year and beyond everything you committed to the country. We'll undo it. But we don't rip cards. We're leaving this lame woman to you, as far as the excesses are concerned, for which you're so much cut.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Comrade, you've reached nine minutes. You need to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u67	So since you are concerned, let us explain to the taxpayers why for three years you have been looting the Greek people and overcoming the agreed ones. And if you don't want to apologize, at least don't cause the people's intelligence by denouncing the New Democracy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government is indifferent to the political theatre and is interested in the real benefit of citizens. We're trying to correct SYRIZA's broken pieces, like the removal of the ESS and so much more. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we understand the problem you have with the first budget of the new government, but, if you do not want to help, at least do not mislead our efforts. Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u68	Mrs Theodora Augeris is now called to Step. She is the last speaker from the thirteenth circle of speakers. I don't know if afterward there's a minister to talk from the people that's scheduled. There are too many ministers and they should be here one of the candidates for the ministers, because they will all fall together. Here, Mrs. Aeger, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the 2020 budget, and it has been ten years since the beginning of the Memorandum of Adventure. And while Greece has finally emerged from the memoranda and from the conditions of bankruptcy, unfortunately, after years with a New Democracy Government, this budget brings us to mind all those negative features that have led us to give birth to the crisis, and much more extended it. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are quite speaking here, this New Democracy government budget looks like that political experiment in the first memoranda, which has worked more as a means of social discipline and much less as a means of structural reform. The 2020 budget with a New Democracy Government is what the New Democracy and those who support it are promoting by all available means, not only itself, but also those who support it and those who support it, even when it was in the military opposition. It is a project of total reinstatement - within many introductorys - "normality" before 2015, as the few, the rich, the powerful of the country, those who both historically and historically and over time actually abuse the word "national", since they do not really care about the needs of society that creates this nation. However, the New Democracy budget has one particular feature which deserves to be noted. A careful reader finds that this budget is essentially divided into two parts. One is described as, of course, and expected, what badly comes with the Mitsotakis Government. The other is described - and this is also very correct - as well as what has been done in the government of Tsipras and SYRIZA. In a sense, this budget, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy Government, is a reversal of your election positions, which was all the fault of SYRIZA. For example, then you said 'fourth Memorandum of Tsipras'. However, in the preliminary draft budget submitted to the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, you say, but. And I carry them to you: "The completion of the third programme, following the implementation of the medium-term debt relief measures and the strengthening of the cash available security, have created favourable conditions for the uninterrupted financing of the Greek State through the markets." Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democrat Republic, be noisy of me getting up on the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u70	Here's the doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u71	And you're a doctor!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u72	Excuse me, but I was asking for some clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u73	So I'm going to make you a surgical note. Thank you very much for your attention! What I mentioned is just a simple example of what you yourself admit, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, if anything, that you receive an economy of prestige, rise and order. But let's say the other things, the bad ones, they're all yours. Here we have one more split in two. On the one hand, these are the few people who wanted to hear because, you're supposed to, you wanted to make a few promises. On the other hand, it is the many hard things you did not want to hear and you record them at times in this budget here. Electionally you said about a reduction in taxation. In the budget, however, the great benefit of tax relief is directed to a few, large, profitable businesses. You electioned the middle class flag. In this budget, however, the vast majority of employees and pensioners do not see any substantial improvement. In these other examples, which my colleagues have mentioned very closely, no one sees the political inconsistency as your political amoralism. It does not see a political vision that is disproved, but a political method for at all costs, a resurgence of power on your part. The New Democracy budget is the economic manual behind each number of which describes a culture of power. Describe how the Right puts the most and everything in the service of a few and selected ones without delay. The few and elite who are baptized “excellent” just to deepen social automation and devour those other than real excellence have a racing mind. Ultimately, the New Democracy budget is a political manual which proclaims the very simple: 'Everyone alone and who can withstand'. For citizens in the Municipality of Piraeus - Chortiatis, for example, from the 2nd Region of Thessaloniki, where I come from, this is now translated into the actual absence of municipal day-care stations. For the citizens of many other regions it may mean a lot of school gaps. But for everyone, it marks a discount from the principles and values of the social state, which is part of our best traditions. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting to see the local dimension of the neo-democratic method or, more rightly,'mechanism'. At central level, the Government of New Democracy is supposed to lighten the burdens. And then, without one understanding it, it moves it to a local level, as if local communities were the rug under which the central authority could hide its unbroken ones. A more important example, of course, is the abolition of the "PHILDIMOS" programme to finance local government. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Despite observance of good practice, and despite the resources secured for the start of the programme achieved by the SYRIZA Government, this government, the New Democracy, is promoting a lack of funding and abolishing a crucial tool for the development of local government and the realisation of the necessary projects in the region. Instead, it creates a new special management and implementation agency, completely controlled by the Office of the Minister of Interior. Controlling funding depends on the LAGs from the notorious “final state” and disturbs the relationship between local administrations and citizens. It favours a customer hierarchy, a state of perfection within the final state, where the whip is sub-financing and the carrot, the privileged access to the minister, and opens the door to all kinds of private interests that over time want to put their hands on services, such as cleanliness to the municipalities. And here, "Everyone alone and anyone who can bear", unless you have a minister at your side. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What I mentioned above is social injustice. The government tells them opportunities. With what the government has been advocating, medium and low incomes should wait until normality is restored first for the rich and powerful and then, as the neoliberal doctrine prophesys, wealth will be diffuse in a magically downwards, with the state being a client-in-law. If something reminds you of this prophecy, this is the time before the outbreak of the crisis and we have experienced the work before. I will catch up with the adversary - and I am closing up with it - which is nowadays updated and says that, in the end, this neoliberal logic believes in time and citizens on the class counterfactuals of the few and the favoured. The Left does not ignore the points of the times, but also does not forget - and the history has shown this - that the sirens of neoliberalism cease when society sails on the rocks of social inequalities and social inequalities are every footnote to this draft law. From the post of Officerial Response we will not just recall the danger, but prepare and quantify the progressive policy that neutralizes it. We are here to vote against everything that leads us to the worst times of our collective life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty-five students and students and three educational sessions from the 2nd General High School of Amarousio (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Jikalaya Zésis has the floor now from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now five months since New Democracy took over the country's governance. Today we are discussing and tomorrow we will vote on the 2020 budget. These five months, there's been a lot of it. In my view, hierarchical and brief, the most important are: First of all, the psychology of Greek citizens has risen. There is a strong government with a self-government parliamentary majority which, in the hands of the President and Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis is moving forward. We've shown we've got a program, organization. We've done a lot more than we promised. Secondly, there has been a sense of security and stability has been established for Greek citizens. Significant steps towards this were the restoration of university asylum in its true sense, as an area of free movement of ideas and clearing operations by the Security and Police Authorities in the fields of lawlessness. Thirdly, strong economic breath was given, mainly to me achievements of reducing HPAI, the hundred and twenty-six instalments, reductions in tax rates, mainly 22%, which became 9% for incomes up to 10,000, from 28% to 24% and from where it continues. Capital control has been lifted, capital controls imposed four years before the previous government have reduced borrowing interest rates and a second chance is given to the indebted enterprises and households, and building measures are taken. Fourthly, we voted for the final state, and I say we voted for it and we haven't fixed it yet. We know what we're dealing with. We know the bureaucracy, the fingers of the average citizen's suffering. However, we have given an impetus, a move towards speeding up to many levels, for example by setting exclusive deadlines for the authorisations of new businesses. And finally, we took action on the demographics. Coming to the Chamber and thinking about the reference I would make to the issues of my constituency, as many colleagues do very well, I was concerned about the tone of the seriousness and gravity I would like to give. So I've decided to pragmatize reality with realism. What I have been doing all this time throughout the pyramid of the Greek Government, from the State Secretarys, the Ministers, to the Prime Minister, I feel the need to do it today from the Step of the National Representation. Minister, the Kastoria Prefecture is demographically spreading, poorly and socially degraded. That is why I am hitting the alarm, I mean sound bell, I am transmitting SOS, and I say that if we do not do what we have decided yesterday with society and the relevant bodies, we may be in a situation without a return. From the major projects, therefore, the regional council of Western Macedonia, which will bring our region together with Jordan and the Amynteios region, will open the way to upgrading the airport of Western Macedonia in Kastoria, because it is the only area that has no daily air communication with the capital. Secondly, as soon as possible, the provision of cheap energy with natural gas through the LAG, complete the strategic planning of 2021, so that the TENA can start building the pipelines from 2020. And thirdly, the dams will start to be constructed immediately, such as the Dipotamia dam, announced by the Minister for Rural Development and signed today by the Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis. I now come to sectoral issues, where the county develops. These are three areas: primary sector, we in the region have mainly apples and beans. The main thing is this: Immediately to put an end to the illegal globalisation of agricultural products and to speed up the expansion of the distributed compensation. Second, tourism. That is where we ask for the government's help in projecting what we have. We have seventy - two Byzantine and post - Byzantine churches, mansionally beyond the unparalleled natural beauty. Minister, I will say a poetic thing: because Kastoria is lusting, sleeping in the waters of the lake, we want to suspend or repeal Article 27 of Law No4607/2019 which the previous government has voted for, because it actually closes, puts tombstones in the businesses of interest of cafeteria around the lake with medieval fines, as well as the punishments, let us say, for five years, withdrew from a new company to a second degree. In conclusion with tourism, I would like to say and ask - as soon as the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs left - Kastoria to be the seat of the Greek-German Youth Foundation. And I come to the last chapter - I will ask for a small tolerance, Mr President, beyond my time - which is the fur. Until a few years ago the fur gave 80% of the income of the county. The income of the county fell to 40%-50% and the fur fell to 60%. Some measures need to be taken. The application of Article 5 of Law 4557 must be suspended, because our region has one particular feature, at least 95% of exports are made with the republics of the former Soviet Union. There is a special regime there. Therefore, this law requires buyers to bring us registered companies and shareholders. This cannot be done with these countries. We have an example with an ally of the Schengen Treaty, Italy, which does not apply to that country. So we are asking for the same thing to be done with Italy. Suspension of electronic delivery of proof at customs offices and airports. So far, proof is being cut out in the sales stores, the seal enters the airport, customs, if it is confirmed that it is not all legal, then the seller will pay the VAT. There's a way. With these two precedents, Minister, we will have at least a 50% reduction in our already very low export activity. Finally, I would like to raise an alarm about a phenomenon that has been employing our society in recent months. For a year and a half, checks have been carried out by the CEFOMAPs of Athens and Thessaloniki. We are imposing exterminated fines and we are calling for a reintroduction of logic. So, for example, they don't realize that the $500,000 advance can be executed, is that the nature of production after a year and a half? In the absence of logic, the producer and exporter are often asked to tax twice. They don't just recognize things. For example, the Cooperative Bank of Western Macedonia closed down, there were some transfers from Cyprus to the other bank, say Alpha Bank, and they were invited to prove themselves. For 2013 incomes, for entrepreneurs who trade with hundreds of thousands of euros and some with millions of euros, because they are the big ones, they are the product expensive, they are suffering months, they are going to Thessaloniki and Athens to prove, let's say, the rents for the children they sent, where they found the money and paid for the insurance contributions. In conclusion, I would like to say that from the work of our Government so far and from the expectations of the budget for 2020, but also for the current four years, but also for the hope that I have that the government will come up with interest in the precise area that I represent, I am enthusiastic about the budget and I wish everyone a good Christmas.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u76	It is known in this House that from the top Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been toured in the exhibition 'The Parliament of the Greeks. The one-way stations of almost two hundred years' duration, organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and two teachers attendants since the 9th Kallitheas High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs. Theodora has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2020 budget as a holistic bill is unfolding for the first time in public, with figures, not only the election lies of Mr Mitsotakis's 'neodexia', but also the deep and unrealistically violent redistribution of national income in favour of the systemic interests that made him Prime Minister. Before I comment on the budget, I would like to say a few words about the morality of the government and its partners. As soon as yesterday, at the expense of popular anger, the ministerial decision giving millions of publishers who support Mitsotakis' interests was revoked. In the past few days, we have lived through the conflict of media owners about who owes less and who gets more from NOVARTIS. Five months after the Mitsotakis election, the country has moved aesthetically and politically into Latin America. Where else would the accounts of convicted public abusers be released? Where else would the three-time recapitalised banks remove debts of big business, making them fewer? Where else would the business centres and the entire state machine be secretly governed by related policies? Ladies and gentlemen, before the budget debate begins we should keep a minute's silence on the account of lies, atrocities and arrogance of the 'neodexe' form that runs through the country in one of the most critical periods of history. But let us now go to the very economic framework described in this bill. First of all, this budget takes away ECU 12 billion. of the 35 billion people's trust, created by the SYRIZA government. Where's the money? The banks. To be saved? No, because the only ones to be saved are the bankrupt debtors, friends of the Mitsotakis regime. That's what I want us to stand on. The plan "HRAKLIS", in fact, socialises the unpunished sea-loans that bankers who went bankrupt to the politicians and entrepreneurs who went bankrupt in the country without guarantees. Because, with their exemption from red loans, in fact, they will relieve eternal globes and, on the other hand, when state guarantees are suppressed, the only ones to be found in the courts, because they are the easy victims, are the borrowers of housing loans, so popular and medium-sized strata. Eternal debtors will have charged the tax office and will have parties on exotic destinations, and the borrowers, who have been beaten by the crisis, will be found, by bank debtors, public debtors and even at levels that exceed the limits of criminal prosecution. All of these will self-evidently lose the benefit of adjusting the hundred and twenty doses to which they have joined. This will also be the end of the real economy, since tens of thousands of houses will be auctioned, demolished the real estate market, and banks will regain the right and liquidity to lend the bankers, who have been bankrupt, with the most characteristic example of the so-called "investment in Greek". Ladies and gentlemen, this is not 'Hercules', it is 'January'. One person right will return joy to her benefactors and the other person will become the remnant persecutor of the popular and middle classes. Such a disaster and such redistribution has never occurred in time. However, this budget, ladies and gentlemen, also contains metaphysical elements, such as, for example, the provision of an increase in public VAT revenues, while the government is legislating to reduce VAT revenues, with, in particular, economic activity. In practice, in the physical field, VAT revenues will collapse, while in the metaphysical budget they appear to increase. In this, I predict that social media start a party with a slogan "The revenues of the state will be like growing, but will be reduced", the very same party that is held every day with the forged degrees of excellence appointed to points. We have a budget here, which boldly provides expenditure for the creation of five hundred jobs for Greek women who will be repatriated as excellent at a salary of EUR 3 000 per month, when there is absolutely nothing for thousands of Greeks with more qualifications than the expatriated borns of the Right, who survive with 700 euros on the Greek labour market or who are unemployed. And I'm talking about expatriated right-wing offspring, because right-wing wants to hide, but joy doesn't leave her. Just yesterday's editor proudly stated that he will be his own child in these five hundred positions. Do you see any place you, ladies and gentlemen, SAPA procedures? Do you see anything worthy? Do you see anywhere friendly when the relevant Minister comes out and talks about twenty thousand recruitments to the public, which SYRIZA has already ensured, and has found the money and named them in the fields of health and education? The budget tells us is how much money they will spend, but it doesn't tell us who, how and how many will hire. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a metaphysical field of public investment, since at the same time as Mr Mitsotakis sent us a bill which provides for the increase in public investment, at the same time closes the ears, when all Greece goes for the postponement or cancellation of major development projects. I wonder: Do public investment mean increased public participation in private or co-financed investments? Are the roads finally becoming wind turbines? Did you see any prospect of spending on building new schools and new hospitals? Did you see somewhere to predict expenditure on the implementation of routed and mature road corridors, such as the Thessaloniki-Edessa road axis? Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about public investment, it is about confiscation of social wealth. There is another point, which reveals another great lie of the Mitsotakis regime. They were speaking in electoral terms about tax evasion and regeneration of the middle class and bringing us a budget that provides a benefit of EUR 17 for every small and countless million for the villas of the rich, due to the reduction of the HNVA for them. Obviously, now with the EUR 2 000 bonus, which will give all those who do not have the sun fate, the New Democracy hopes that it will face the great demographic problem. Moreover, with the new insurance, announced by the Minister responsible, insurance contributions for about 90% of the professions are increased, while we hear that the pension limit will also be increased. And because they do not want to make any increase in the wages borne by their grand supporters, the wealthy employers who have supported and supported the New Democracy, they are reducing the non-wage cost, which means bleeding for the insurance funds, and to no advantage for the employees, and they will be bleededededed out, of course, by all future pensioners at the end of the day. Of course, as it was in the period of Kostas Karamanlis, who I know has been sufficiently rested and is thinking of returning as President of the Republic, this will be managed by another government. Otherwise, the objective values of property are increased for many, while the heating allowance and allowances are generally reduced, again, for many. However, New Democracy has found room to reduce dividend tax, i.e. the possibility of tax evasion and tax systematically avoid bringing their money back to the country legally and without consequences. Now one can set up a company in Bulgaria or Cyprus, which is taxed with 5% and 10%, and then bring his money to the country with 5% tax. We will therefore have two speeds: the big companies, which pay nothing, and the middle-class and the employees, who will pay for everything. Of course, because the question of power is well known by the Right, it has no problem using the worst powers in society to impose a mediation silence and make lies true and true lies. You are the moral perpetrators of this stench, which is the breath of the Callaic mediatic democracy that has been imposed. However, whatever the means say, Greek citizens will see the consequences of your policy and understand them very soon if they have not already understood them. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a play-station budget. This is a virtual, imaginary and metaphysical piece of legislation, intended to conceal the pre-agreed assignment of the Hellenic Republic and the popular sovereign rights to economic protectors of the country's ruling families. Work cases on which it was structured have already been overcome by economic reality. Neither will growth rates be increased, because investors remain unrealistic, nor will surplus be maintained, because it will be dispersed in guarantees to buy red loans from speculative funds, nor will public spending be retained. And, if they restrain themselves, it'll be because there'll be more money being taken out of the pockets of the populace. With this budget we are reminded by the government of the popular wisdom and the answer given by a rich man, refusing to help a economically weak one. In popular wisdom this phrase was left as 'Help me, my poor, not to be like you'. I wouldn't expect another budget from this vile, neoliberal government. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, my colleague. The reason for this is the Deputy Minister of Economics Mr. Skakakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I would ask for a little tolerance in time, because I have heard a lot these days. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the Qualified Opposition, in an up-to-date version, to tell us exactly the same thing before the elections, I realised that it has not yet understood either why it failed or lost. And, like all those who do not want to make elementary self-criticism, it gives its defeat to bad communication and to the people who did not understand its achievements. Ladies and gentlemen, you have failed in communication, in the economy, to fail. That's why the Greek people voted against you. And you failed not only in the tragic first half of 2015, when you unnecessarily destroyed a public property of EUR 25 billion, with the zeroing of the value of the shares held by Greek taxpayers in the banks, when you tied the country with primary surpluses, until 2060, but then failed. From 2016 to 2018, when you made an austerity of 11.4 billion euros bigger than Siomple was asking for. And, to achieve it, you increased the tax burden of EUR 30 billion in addition to those that Shoeble asked for and I remind the House of how that results. Revenue beyond the objectives agreed by SYRIZA in the Memorandums EUR 11.4 billion, after all benefits, etc., clearly. And an additional increase in the due amount of EUR 18.1 billion, a sum of EUR 29.5 billion higher tax burden. From Kenyans, you have even heard the black zero in the German budget. If Kynes had seen you somewhere from above, he would have tore his book "The general theory of evolution, interest and money". From rebels without cause, you became tax collectors without cause. And all this, for no reason. This is what I believe - the greatest failure, for the biggest gafa of the payment of economic policy. You killed yourself politically and you still haven't understood. It has not yet been found one of you to wonder: “Why, you guys, did we break them up in taxes? What did we want with the 37 billion euro pillow? How did Samaras, without a pillow, borrow in March 2014 with 4.9% and we with a cocktail pudding pillow even borrow in March 2019, with 3.9%? Five years and 37 billion euros pillow to drop the 1% interest rate? And what just happened was we were losing the election and Mitsotakis came in and the interest rates fell to 2% and then 1.5%? Did we do anything stupid?" I would have hoped that you would consider all this, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of Officerial Vice-Presidents, if I hadn't heard you all these hours talking about the economy and not a word about the greatest problem that you inherited us. How does the 2020 budget start? In finding the huge problem of the economy today, which is the huge investment deficit. You delivered Greece, with regard to investment, lastly in Europe and fourth of the end of the world. In 2018, a worse percentage of investment as a percentage of GDP, based on the World Bank figures, had only Guinea-Bissau, Puerto Rico and Guatemala. The country has been losing capital for years. The capital invested is less than what is amortised. Without capital, without investment, there is no growth. There is no competitiveness, no jobs, no future. What do Members of the party who have been ruling for four and a half years answer for this? Nothing. It's like there isn't the point, it's not the problem. We are only told of something about foreign direct investment, which in 2018 was somewhat larger. Foreign direct investment is, to say, 2 to 3 billion euros, investment in the country as a whole is just over 20. They respond to 10% of the problem and ignore the disaster that has occurred since 100% of the problem and all they find to tell us is that the reduction in business tax does not redistribute income. Of course, it is not a redistribution of income, since it is an incentive to invest. Business taxes are the main incentive for investment. Every businessman - and anyone who has made a business knows about it, - when he makes his account of whether to make an investment, it counts what the final result is. It counts there, of course, the impact of the tax. Each investment includes this calculation. Our economic policy is an incentive, which is why it will work. Because the half of the budget area in 2020, which we have created, is intended to bring investment. And, once this policy has been completed, it will make Greece one of the most competitive countries fiscally, in terms of businesses, throughout the OECD, and will bring growth that will be at rates that I fear will make Mr Polakis even more fashionable, which would threaten us yesterday to put copper in the nose if we achieve our goals. I am now going to your other argument, the reduction - supposedly - of the social state. Let's see what the 2019 budget was foreseeing. Benefits. OPEKA budget. In the 2019 report, total expenditures of EUR 3,203,000. OPEKA 2020 budget, total expenditure EUR 3 439 000 000, over EUR 200 million. What was the budget for the insurance funds in 2019? Total revenue 42.8 billion euros. What does the 2020 budget provide for in the respective rapporteur report? It provides for 44 billion euros. More than EUR 1 billion, which goes to say that both the money and more than the so-called ‘Twelfth pension’ are included. As for health and education, you yourself told us that money is somewhat more about hospitals and EEAS and education, but it is not enough. You forget, however, that money in terms of education and health does not tell themselves the whole truth. The performance of these services counts, the quality, and that's where a housekeeping is needed. Above all, hospital supplies need to be measured, so that the work of the many and exceptional people we have in these areas is to pay for the benefit of the ordinary taxpayer. This is the key to health and education with quality for all. I now come to the middle-class debate. First, if I were SYRIZA, I would avoid talking about the middle class, because you are doing what Mr Tsakalotos and his British education would call "adding insult to injury". In just Greek, you upset her in the middle class on taxes and now you're showing up as her late defenders. But if we really want to identify who belongs to the middle-class on economic terms, then the debate becomes much more complex. Because we need to take into account not only the income available, that is, the revenue resulting from taxes and contributions, but also the net assets. And the net property arises only if we put the real estate, but also the movable property, and if we get out of it, tax and insurance, the debts that citizens have. This is people's real estate. And, of course, we must also take into account the degree of liquidity of each household. One may have a big property and that cannot be liquidated and destroyed. Unfortunately, all this is not known in the state today. In Greece we all know that there is very important tax evasion, too much cash, a lot of money in deposits abroad and a lot of real estate is not recorded properly, while we have not matched loans and liabilities with mobile and real estate. What does all this mean? In fact, the state alone can only identify who are in the middle class or are poor and this assessment has a very large margin of error. This means, in effect, that all public policies, taxes and subsidies, inherently, contain enormous injustices. To say it simply, there are cases that the state is currently facing as wealthy destroyed people, whose debts are larger than their property, and they are inhumanly working to pay their instalments and are facing as poor tax fugitives who simply hide income and cash. This is the reality and whoever has walked in this country knows it. The conclusion: First, in any case we must reduce taxes and tax evasion, in order to reveal, and with incentives, who are poor and who are rich or in the middle class. Secondly, the state must gain a much better image of citizens' economics in order to make genuinely serious and fair policies. And, of course, we must - and this is what this budget is doing - reduce taxes, reduce them by EUR 1.1 billion, and increase the revenue of the State resulting from tax evasion. And that's what we're doing here. This budget does not have a euro that does not result from tax evasion or expansion of the tax base. Now, the reduction of taxes, as we define it, is already about the middle class. The reduction we made for over 60,000 euros is about the entire middle class. It's a small part of what's about the biggest properties. It's about the whole middle class.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u80	Over 500 thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u81	I've explained to you, but you don't want to understand that the middle class is a function of mobile and immovable property and debts and debts that no one has counted. But then let's go. We move, at the same time, on this budget, to reduce income tax, company tax, dividend tax, wage earners' insurance contributions and, above all, to exempt free professionals from the shortstage of linking incomes to insurance contributions, which deprived them of the property and led them to tax evasion, with mathematical accuracy and a loss of public revenue. All this already exists in this budget. In our planning for the next four years, as we have said in the run-up to the elections - and we also respect our commitments, and it is rather funny to hear that the commitments for a four-year period, which we have explicitly said are about four years old, should be fulfilled in the first year of the budget, remember what you did in the first year with your commitments - are still included: an additional reduction in the HPAI, abolition of the solidarity levy, new major reductions in the insurance contributions of employees, and completion of the reduction in business tax and other things that you will see in the process. So, ladies and gentlemen of Officer County, don't waste hypocritical tears on the middle class. Because in this Chamber you will regret every year everything you said the previous day. The most important thing, however, for the middle-class, but also for the entire Greek people, is not tax redistribution. The most important thing is the recovery of the economy. Because then only Greeks will have the opportunity to enjoy fruits from higher growth and the opportunity to rebuild income and property. We Greeks, ladies and gentlemen, have not survived as a nation for giving us benefits. We have survived as a nation because every time, after the disasters and crises, we rise on our feet, with our work and our efforts! That's what we have to do now. The government of Mr Mitsotakis, with hard work, frankly, opens up a new era for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u83	What do you want, Mr. Chakaloto?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u84	As a parliamentary representative, I would like the floor for a minute to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u85	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Dogman, you said I shouldn't add an insult to the damage and not talk about the middle layers at all. Are you not telling me, before the Greek crisis, the six years before 2009, what government existed in Greece and created this crisis? Do you remember that? Can you inform your colleagues and colleagues? Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Between 2000 and 2014 how much did GDP fall? Do you agree to 26%? And then it increased a little bit 2% in our time? Is it possible to claim that the middle class was not destroyed by the major bankruptcy crisis, which were you government before bankruptcy? It cannot be destroyed when GDP declined by 26%, but it was destroyed when we had 2% growth. Who's that, Mr. Dog? Where did you learn these finances? The fall in GDP of 26%, the greater decline in any economy in a time of peace, did it not result in the middle-class? Apart from ‘adding insult to injury’, there is also the ‘end shave the groom’. And you will find out when you understand that with your own policies and bring the middle class where it is and you will not bring it back where you would like it to be, because other objectives you have in your economic policy, as I will say in my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u88	Medea, I'll give the floor to Mr. Dog for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u89	First of all, because I was in politics many years ago, thirty years ago, I remember you shouting about spending more. You had no other argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u90	Answer the questions!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u91	I'm answering. And in the elections thirty years, I remember you saying, "Tax, spend, spend!"
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u92	Answer a question for once!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u93	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u94	Thirty years! I remember you saying this in the 2009 European elections on eve of the crisis...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u95	So it was our fault? Were we government? What do you say to the Greek Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u96	No, it's too many of them. You are, however, one of those who should not react with so much arrogantness to what has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u97	How much did GDP fall in 2010-2014?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u98	But I would add something else. GDP has fallen 26% since the crisis, all of the post-population crisis. Indeed, it was a tragic consequence of this crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u99	You and PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u100	You alone, however, charged the Greek people with 16%, in addition to what Shoeble asked for. You charged him with 16% alone, no reason and no reason. Do a little self-criticism, it doesn't hurt.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u102	Let's close it here, Minister. Members are also waiting to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u103	He can be alone, Mr. Stakoura. He has the ability to answer for himself. You don't have to cover him.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u104	You have a minute, Minister. Warm request.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u105	First of all, I don't cover the Undersecretary, and we have an excellent relationship. I just want to fill in some clues. You've learned to smack everything. In 2010-2014 we all ruled here? Why are you messing with them? Why don't you split the period as it should, for when each party ruled? What did you receive at the end of 2014? Did you receive or did you not receive by signature a positive sign of economic growth?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u106	How much had GDP fallen, man? It was 26% down. Is it possible that he hadn't destroyed the middle class?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Chakalato, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u108	I'm talking to you with great respect, and I'm talking to you with clues.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u109	I'm talking with respect to you, too. How much did GDP fall?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u110	I heard you. Did I interrupt you? I repeat, you're slapping between 2010 and 2014. We're not all the same. We delivered the economy with a positive sign of economic growth, the New Democracy Government, with a trunk of the New Democracy and the participation of PASOK at that time. So you received an economy that had a positive rate of economic growth, returned it to the recession and led it to a third unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased You spoke about before 2009. Before 2009, because you are an economist too, have you looked a little bit at how much the deficit and debt went up in Greece between 2007 and 2009 and how much did it get up in Europe on average? Have you heard anywhere, why should you know that there was a systemic crisis in the world then? I would therefore like to say to you - and whenever you want, and tomorrow, I will bring you the information - that the deficit and debt in Greece has increased less than the European average in 2007-2009. That is the definition of the systemic crisis. From there on, there are indeed all of us mistakes in how we were led to the crisis, because, yes, the endogenous problems were much larger in our country than in the other countries. And that is what we need to deal with and that is what we are dealing with in the budget, for example, with investment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, the following will be followed by the following speakers: Mr Buga, whom we also call on the New Democracy in Step. Then there is Mr Kastanides, Mr Giokas, who has been from yesterday, but has not been consulted and has not spoken yesterday and then Mr Gioulekas has not spoken. This is the next four speakers. Mr. Buga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u112	It really needs a large stock of political hardship to move the fingers of those who had a strategic choice to charge the middle class. Ladies and gentlemen, the deposit of the first budget of the New Democracy Government reflects and implements a genuinely development economic policy, which was seriously designed and which we had announced in detail. This policy, which is implemented in practice during the first months of our governance, is about the whole of Greek society. It touches every Greek and every Greek. Our main concern is the restoration of as many injustices as possible against the middle-class who was so ill-inspired by the SYRIZA government. Last year, the people waited for discharge in the budget. This year they're waiting for improvement. The 2020 budget shall include tax relief, exemptions and tax incentives, calculated at an amount exceeding 1 billion. It thus creates the conditions for attracting investment, creating new jobs and increasing consumption. It is, at the same time, a realistic programme that aims to strengthen the country's economy in an environment of supervision by the European Union. We are ambitious to achieve the growth of the incomes of all citizens, primarily by reducing the tax rates, always aimed at achieving the surplus target, so that in no case is the fatal and unjustified exceedment of the targets recorded in the period 2016-2018. The important measures for the economy that have already been adopted and are already being implemented, within a period of five months, demonstrate the consistency of our programme commitments and our determination. The importance of measures such as the HRAKLIS project, the brave and lasting reduction of HNVIA, the significant improvement in the regulation of citizens' tax debts, as well as the simplification of procedures for the protection of first residence, have shown other colleagues who spoke before. I shall be content with pointing out in my speech the exemption from real estate VAT and the suspension for another three years of the value added tax on real estate transfers. This move by the government has already stimulated the real estate market, all professional groups active in the building sector, but above all the interest of citizens in newly built buildings. Significant funds are also expected to be channelled towards the renovation and reconstruction of existing real estate, which is considered a very crucial field for the short-term stimulation of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, an essential condition for stimulation of the economy and development, directly and directly linked to the budget being discussed, is the strengthening of the institutions, as well as the smooth and uninterrupted functioning of justice. This Review House has reached agreement on very crucial chapters of the Constitution, as the charter of our constitution: the equivalence of the military with the ordinary judges, in order to ensure their full independence. The provision and minority of the House of Parliament of the possibility of setting up committees of inquiry as an authentic instrument of parliamentary control. The constitutionalisation of minimum guaranteed income, so as to ensure a decent living for every citizen. The exercise of the right of vote of the non-national electorate. The incorporation of the 'Folk Legislative Initiative'. Finally, the early dismantling of the House from the election of the President of the Republic. Moreover, development depends largely on the security of citizens and confidence with which the citizens surround justice. Justice must finally cease to function as a factor reliant on development. We expect criminal justice to identify directly those who violate criminal law and disrupt the country's normal social and economic life, their rapid referral to trial, the actual elaboration of the sentences that may be imposed by the courts on those who are found guilty and the avoidance of early releases, especially when they have political targets. Simple citizens and investors are also entitled to feel safe that any administrative or civil case of theirs will soon be judged by an independent and impartial judge that our legal system provides alternative ways of resolving theirs, and in the end that they can through an effective and rapid enforcement procedure, satisfy the requirements that may be imposed upon them by the courts. The above aims serve the amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as other instruments that have recently been voted in favour of by the National Representation. We reinstated, as we were committed, specific offences as a felony, thereby upgrading them in terms of criminal sanctions. In addition to this, we have made key contributions, which are mainly identified in essential criminal law and, secondly, in criminal proceedings, in the face of terrorism, corruption, judicial proceedings and the proper functioning of the state. The new mediation law brings in a new institution aimed at dismantling the confiscated Greek courts and promotes a different legal culture of rapid and oligopolistic dispute resolution. There are amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure to speed up the political trial and to the general application of electronic justice. The most important thing, however, is that our political system must shield justice from any interventions by the executive, such as those that shocked public life, it is alleged that they have taken place in the recent past, and are already being investigated by Parliament and justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, very briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, real development must be balanced. It also requires projects in the region which can create employment conditions everywhere. Two large and absolutely necessary projects for Central Greece, Fokida and the entire country are the connecting axis of Thermopylon - Itea - Antirios, which will link the major roads, the National Road of Athens - Thessaloniki with the Ionian Road and the Rios - Antirios bridge. This road will take out of isolation and create conditions for sustainable development for the entire Central Central Central region. The other major project is the construction of the Mornos Lake coastal pipeline for the collection and safe disposal of the waste water around the lake settlements and the Maltese detention store. The construction of the above project will significantly improve the water quality of the lake that is watered by the Lefkapodio, will relieve the area of burdensome constraints imposed and prohibit all kinds of development and thus create a reasonable and fair compensation. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, with the budget being voted on, achieves rationalisation of economic sizes, the creation of a financial margin, which is being used to reduce tax burdens, the relaunching of the economy, with real prospects, tangible and measurable benefits for every citizen. We are voting in favour of the budget, so that we can change our page definitively and, finally, restore hope to the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Castanides has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a budget for small settlements. Its figures do not reflect the breath of any project for the future of the country. Before I speak, however, in particular on the 2020 budget, let me make a comment. I followed the debate before with interest between the ministers of the New Democracy and the Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA. I would recommend to both sides that they be distinguished from greater restraint, considering how much damage they have done to the country in different periods and not by provoking a rhetoric of benefits - allegedly - because of their country's policies. I'll be specific. We all know that lenders themselves, in particular in the report of the European Parliament in March 2013, have said heavy things about the New Democracy Government of the period 2004-2009 and about the financial derailment brought about by its policy. In fact, I would point out, as far as statistics are concerned, that the expression in the report of the European Parliament in March 2013 that the government of 2004-2009 has resorted to fast-tracking in order to hide the spread of real budgets. Mr Stagioras said earlier, trying to defend this period, that in 2007-2009 the international crisis, the well-known international financial crisis, was that which affected the country's budgetary situation, but less than it happened in other countries. I would like to remind Mr Stakoura, who was also dealing with economic affairs from another position, that the problem arose in 2004, when, in violation of European accounting standards, the then Minister of Finance, Mr. Aloscoufs, decided to transfer the expenditure on defensive equipment from their time of payment to the time of order. This is how the funds of the National Defence Agency were transferred - I mean, defence equipment - in earlier times, that is, in times prior to 2004. What happened in 2007 and Mr Stagiras hides from it is that the European Commission, after many years of effort - because it is a long time from 2004 to 2007 - has brought the New Democracy Government back to respect for international and European accounting standards and the defensive expenditure on their position has been changed, carried over from order time to pay, so that we have a significant burden, regardless of the tachypical ones, to which the European Parliament report refers. SYRIZA also knows - and Mr Tsakalotos also knows - that the period of unscrupulous policies in the first half of 2015 did lead to a third memorandum, which was nominally EUR 86 billion - in practice a little less - which was not necessary for the country at all. And it took more than many attempts to get us to the current weighed financial situation. Let me remind you, Mr President - because this is the conclusion of the crisis - that the road to the International Support Mechanism was a one-way path to the situation that we were in 2009, but it took us ten years to get out of the memoranda, due to the abundance, both of the New Republic of the first period and of SYRIZA, which instead of making the invitations to a national understanding necessary, as happened in Ireland, Portugal and Cyprus - and that is why it took only three years to get out of the memorandum - they used a public rhetoric of populism and hatred, resulting in social and political divisions and tensions, polarisation in the political scene, to lead to a significant delay. Now, for the budget, I am absolutely certain that the figures shown in the budget are not always accurate. I will give a single example. There is an underestimation of insurance costs. A budget allocation of EUR 192 million is entered in the budget in respect of expenditure on the insurance system. However, I think it is absolutely certain that, on the basis of the pending decisions of the Council of State - and I have some of the Court of Auditors' decisions to say - the government will have to adjust its budgetary figures. The picture of the balance in the insurance funds will therefore prove to be false, because it will have to pay higher amounts than it now shows. The second point is that the budget does not make any sense. Recently, Mr. Tsakalotos said that it was a conscious choice of the SYRIZA government - a choice compatible with the ideology of the then ruling party - to exaggerate the middle class.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u115	That's not exactly what I said. I said start with the popular strata and the humanitarian crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u116	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u117	Dialogue is absolutely useful. Mr. Tsakalotos, the basis was that it was compatible to overtax the middle layers with the ideology of SYRIZA. It should also be recalled that the New Democracy had as one of its basic, fundamental, proclamations of the restoration of the middle class. Rehabilitation of the middle class is mainly the recreation of the middle class. The middle class was literally destroyed during the crisis, beyond the popular layers, which were already in an unfavourable position in the first place. So what we are talking about is the recreation of the middle-class. I will make a comment on this. The medium-sized rehabilitator does not pass through the reduction of tax rates, as New Democracy claims. The reduction in tax rates is, in fact, very targeted at the 2020 budget. It involves, in particular, reducing the import rate by 9%. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that the annual incomes between EUR 20,000 and EUR 50,000 are not going to see any relief at all. Therefore, the declaration of rehabilitation, even by reducing the tax rates, of the middle class is not reflected in the 2020 budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Castanides, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u119	I shall finish, Mr President. I hope that sometime it will be reflected in the future. Let's take care of one more thing. The targeted policies, if we are able to share some of the surplus, cannot rule out periods of severe demographic crisis in social classes, which were perfectly reasonable to rely on. For example, as long as we embrace multitudes in love, I do not understand why third-party families are exempted from a number of favourable tax arrangements. Third-party families have been excluded at the moment, in fact, from tax concessions or arrangements even for football anonymity companies. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we must pay attention to this. The restoration of the middle class is its recreation, but its recreation within the production process itself. During the post-multiple process, the formation of extensive medium-sized sections of farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises and public sector employees and free professionals was the result of the redistribution of the community's public revenues and payments. It was not the result of a genuine production process. That is why in the state's first budgetary crisis, when it was no longer possible to support the redistribution of state revenues and the community's transfer payments, politically devoid of birds. In any case, then, what is needed is a concrete, developmental plan to re-create the middle class. It is also a crucial issue for democracy, but only through the country's productive restructuring and its competitiveness in the international environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Ioannis Giokas has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u121	There is nothing more unscientific, not on the basis of the approaches of the Marxist political economy, even of the urban political economy, than that of the middle class. I'm talking about the definition. There is a working class, there is a bourgeoisie class, and there are the middle layers, the majority of whose terms of life approach the working class, that is, they belong to the popular layers, and there are the upper middle layers that are in another category. But this medium-sized invention, and even the limits for who is in the middle-class on the basis of the European Union's criteria on substance, are in the so-called middle-class even poorly populated strata. But why has it been cultivated all these years? To justify the attack on the middle layers in a logic that you all have: 'The poor to pay for the poorest.' On this basis, all this idea of middle-class, which ignores reality was exploited. In relation to the budget, there is a lot of evidence that we are talking about another anti-grass budget that is moving in the humiliated and previous budgets of the SYRIZA government. There were not a few ministers - despite the intense controversy, which was much less than others - who clearly said that the New Democracy Government is moving in the footsteps of the previous SYRIZA government, as well as in the privatisation programme and other projects, such as the Greek one, and with regard to the tax relief of big capital. That is why the basic budget figures remain the same, as they have been years ago. What are those sizes? Firstly, the primary surpluses that are still very high and, secondly, the vast majority of public revenues are to come out to 93% in excess of that of the people, when large companies are involved in state revenues with just 7%. And there is another element that highlights not only the anti-grassroots character of this budget but essentially the anti-grassroots and unjust nature of the development for which you celebrate. What's that? The product of developing this larger pie as you usually say. At a time when there is an increase in the tax revenue of EUR 750,000, 000 and new cuts in critical areas such as health and education, for business groups you are considering a reduction of EUR 446,000. These are reductions, of course, that SYRIZA started and continued in New Democracy. SYRIZA as a government has evacuated the most unfair tax, which is indirect taxation. At the same time, we should remember the reduction in share dividends, the reduction in even the voluntary contribution of shipowners and the basis for further reducing the tax on business groups. All this proves that your development not only brings back the huge losses that workers had in the years of the crisis, it does not even bring back a significant part of these losses, but it is also a lever for further opening up the class differences and social inequalities. It was the day before yesterday - I think it was Mr. Skylakakis who mentioned it - a debate on the issue of the real estate market and the adjustment of the objective values. If I am not mistaken indeed, the State Secretary said that it is good that prices have increased, etc. What's behind it, though? Firstly, there is the huge concentration of real estate in the hands of investors who are exploited in the short-term lease and, secondly, the price ejection of rents for the people's families who are trying to satisfy their housing needs. Here, therefore, from the resurgence of the market, the popular layers will be hit twice, both by the rise in the objective values and by the escalation in the prices of rents which, in some cases, even in the labour-popular districts, are greedy. So here's the nature of your development. The richest and poorer will suffice in the crumbs, in the mercifulness, in the social dividends you have set up, to golden the anti-grassroots pill and to hide that these one-off allowances come in order to replace built-in rights that have been demolished in previous years, and above all, to train the people to put their demands on more and more. This is your common strategy. That is why the JRC over the years said that the so-called national development objective was false, that it is the national objective of Greece of capital and not of Greece of the workers and that the exit from the crisis for the benefit of the people cannot be achieved without the replacement and recovery of losses and without physical radical overturns in the economy and power. Today the caramel of the national objectives of the national homogeneity, national understanding and so on, on the occasion of the escalation and developments in Greek-Turkish. The more falsely the national development objective, the more falsely the national objective of the country's geostrategic upgrading, which is the common denominator of all parties' foreign policy. In fact, behind the so-called national consensus, the country's ever greater integration into the American chariot is hiding and you are all cultivating the false expectation that this choice of bonding, integration into the US planning will allegedly promote peace, security and the protection of the country's sovereign rights. And when do you say that? You say this at a time when this entire account is falling apart, and which the powerful allies are supposed to be holding the Pontius Pilate stop over certain unbearable verbal convictions that ultimately encourage Turkish provocativeness, although in recent times it is obvious that they are growing right and left and voices that say that collapsing should not be demonised, that it must be disintegrated, that speaking about Greek EEZ, for example, in order to protect the borders - because that is why - it is not so progressive and so much so much so that it is butter on the bread of imperialist designs. The former Prime Minister, Mr Simitis, has dug up on this issue, although many people claim it. He's also claiming KINAL's PASOK, and it looks like he's also claiming SYRIZA's PASOK. The JRC - and I conclude, Mr President - calls on the people to see the thread linking poverty, insecurity, the possibility of a new crisis with the major risks that accumulate in our region. This thread is held by the ruling class and only serves capitalist superprofits. And, like the sacrifices made by the people in the name of exit from the crisis, they eventually did not bring growth to its benefit, so the sacrifices it makes for the geostrategic upgrade - EUR 4 billion every year in NATO - or those that will be called upon to do in the future will not ensure either peace or security for the people in the region. So it is necessary to break this thread, to reverse this policy, to focus on a path of development that serves people's needs, is based on popular struggle and power, to build mutually beneficial relations with the other peoples in the region. This road is both realistic and necessary as ever.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u122	Mr Constantine Güulekas has the floor from New Democracy. The Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy will be followed by Aleka Papariga.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought that here many of my fellow Members, respecting the labors and sacrifices of the Greek people over the years of the tragic crisis, which destroyed the daily life of the Greek citizen, would speak more wisely about where we are today. By making their criticism, of course, but also by making their suggestions on the other hand. But I have seen, with a surprise, the economic operator over the past few years that with very ease he is making'reasonable' leaps, but not properly. He talks about what happened until 2014, forgets that from 2015 to 2019 there was another governance, the SYRIZA - ANEL governance, and he comes today to the 2020 budget to tell us what he and his resignation believes. And I would say this leap could be justified on the grounds of politicians. It cannot be justified, however, by anyone who lived all these years on the line of what the SYRIZA - ANLE rule meant. It would be a shame to spend time talking about the past. We care what happens from now on. That is why I said that the Greek people are waiting to hear what the government is proposing to lead the country away from the economic deadlocks, but also what all the parties are proposing. It made me a terrible impression, though, that some insist on this sterile opposition. The only difference is that they do not calculate these four and a half years that they ruled. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. Because at that time you have not ruled, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, so quite rightly you have said, you are critical. But today we're in 2020 now, it's over in 2019. Four and a half years, what did you do? Now it is a pity to talk about it, but we have to talk about it because you are making us do it. Wouldn't you come to her house, send Madame Merkel, "go back", didn't you say to smash memorials, abolish HISBIA, so, uh, there, there? You said that. What have you been doing all these years? You took credit, as polite organs and students, from German Chancellor, you cut pensions, you sinked the economy, you committed the public property for a hundred years, you cut the NSA, you cut the social benefits, you cut the predictive benefits. These were works and days of SYRIZA - ANEL? Didn't they become your own governance? I wonder, therefore, all the previous people have destroyed the country, destroying the country with its policy, but for 2015-2019, nothing! You have brought a Memorandum, you have all voted willingly, 'Yes to everything'. Have you forgotten that, as far as 2014 with flags outside the squares, were you urging the world to protest against the anti-grassroots policy followed by the so-called rulers? When you guys got here, you guys came. You voted for the Memorandums 'necessary'. You didn't want it there. But others didn't want to. Wrong? Of course they did, the Minister of Finance told you, mistakes from all sides. Didn't you find so much political dignity to say: 'We also recognize mistakes'? Nothing, you did everything right. And we're coming to tear it down. Well, that is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. It ends in 2019, in 15 days it enters 2020, this time comes with many bonuses, bonuses in nationalities. We have to deal with the Turkish challenge, which is now moving towards a ruthless pace. Agreements with Libya, insane equipment, Erdogan threaten to drill south of Crete, builds memorandums of cooperation with Libya. We have been excitement to the refugee - immigration problem, which is really a very hot issue, which has been afflicting our country for years and in recent years with great intensity, because the refugee flows have increased sharply and we have the economy we are discussing today. And I wonder, instead of standing there and seeing how our country can go, I see a sterile opposition tactic. Do you think you are addressing a people who have a short memory and do not remember? He remembers very well. In any case, because we are talking about today's budget, yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are proud. We are committed to some things and we are implementing them with the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. We are really consistent with what we committed to the Greek people by 7 July, to implement them. And we're doing it. Thirty-two bills were passed since 7 July. It's not a matter of quantity, but of quality. All these bills help. And they help who? Mostly the weaker ones. This is very important. Unless you disagree with the lower income tax reduction, that is, for the initial rate to 9%. Unless you disagree, why the tax on businesses is reduced from 28% to 24%, because there are small and medium-sized enterprises there too. Unless you disagree about exempting from the solidarity levy families who have a disabled person, unless you disagree with all this. I do not think you disagree and I do not think anyone can really argue seriously in saying that 'you know, all of this is against us'. With regard to the development aspect of this budget, I think that the objectives are achieved. We will, of course, see it from its execution. But in any case the messages we have from the fourth report of enhanced supervision, which is better than all previous ones, and the indicators which show that the economy is heading in the right direction. So that is what we are trying to do about this year's budget. We are really trying, ladies and gentlemen, to be faithful to the commitments we have undertaken to remove burdens which you have placed on the economically weaker. I say this because you are talking about elite and a budget for the few. No, it's a lot of people. It concerns the many, because what I have just said and a number of other measures which have already been voted on by this House or which come from here and now and which have been announced and which are included in the budget are for the many who are suffering. And in that sense we are entirely consistent with the commitments we have made to the Greek people. With our conscience in mind, therefore, that we are doing our duty, for that is precisely why the Greek people have given us the mandate to rule the place, we are voting for this year's budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational program "The King and the Revolution", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and two teachers since the 9th Gymnasium of Kallitheas. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Lebanon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, we have seen another attempt just now by Mr Kastanides on behalf of the Change Movement to bring us back to the past. It has been done in the past few days with matters relating to foreign policy. Today we are dealing with the economic policy issues of the past following Mr Tsakalotou's intervention and a debate he had with the Minister for Finance. We are determined to look into the future and not to deal with the past. But we have to restore the truth every time we come to this Chamber. Mr. Kastanidis was confused and spoke about Mr. Stavoura, who was in passing not in a ministerial position in 2007-2009, as Mr. Kastanides said. The Karamanlis government has practically undertaken to cover the debts and expenses of all the armaments programs that the PASOK governments had done, ordered and executed with the known results of the prisons and so on. This obviously created a diversion in a part of the economy and, at the same time, as the Minister of Finance said before, the crisis that existed created a more general crisis in Europe and Greece, despite the problems of debts, managed to be in its debt below Europe's average. I think we all know that. We just need to repeat it every time to restore the truth. As far as the government's good will is concerned, apart from looking at the past to be in the right position, Mr Tsakalots yesterday sent a letter to the Minister of Finance, who accepted to bring the staff of the SYRIZA officials and to discuss and show them the evidence of the deficit you left behind in your budget. This shows that, firstly, we are working with the truth and the evidence, and secondly, that we want dialogue and constructive cooperation. I now come to the first budget of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who, in our opinion, marks a substantial change of page for our country. It is a development budget that overturns overtaxation, strengthens investment, enlarges the tax base, improves the efficiency of the state. It is mainly a budget that has a positive social character - this is the real effort - as it is implementing small steps in fact, as Mrs Canelles said and put us in order the other day - but these are small steps, but we can do - and we can do - a constant structured strengthening of the financially vulnerable social groups, but also those who have lifted the burden of budgetary adjustment for a decade. It is therefore predicting an increase in growth rate to 2.8% for 2020 and 2% for 2019 and a decline in unemployment to 15.6% from 17.4%. It puts an end to the unnecessarily surpluses of the SYRIZA government, but it respects the country's commitment to primary surpluses as it should have done at 3.5%, the reduction of which is a strategic goal of our government for the whole four years, as we have often mentioned. A few days ago Mr Mitsotakis put it back at the summit, and our objective will be achieved exactly as we said beforehand, since we are creating, as we do today, the appropriate conditions, i.e. higher economic growth, lower borrowing costs, early repayment of the debts to the IMF, the use of profits from the retention of Greek bonds by the European banks. These conditions will enhance the viability of Greek debt and provide us with greater security to claim lower surpluses. Because we have no delusions, such as the previous government, and we do not want to lead the country to similar adventures with those of the first half of 2015. We build the credibility of our country - step by step, and we believe that in 2020 we will have good news for 2021 then. Is this budget correcting all the bad texts here? Is he traveling us to the "promised" one-off? Apparently, no. But it puts Greece in a new era, as a matter of principle and rationality, and it defines a structured framework for growth and justice. It is the budget that opens the door to the future, leaving behind the ten-year crisis that has troubled our country. The sacrifices of the Greek people led to an unprecedented impressive fiscal adjustment of Greece. The years before have become mistakes from all political sites, and we are the first to accept it. It was evidently followed by a distorted production model. We were over-expected and consumed more than our productive potential. Even so, with mistakes and excesses, in the forty-five years of post-multi-population, we have led to a clear improvement in the standard of living and convergence of our economy with those of the developed Western countries. However, the crisis that we experienced was not just an economic crisis, it was a crisis of values, institutions and standards, a crisis that has levelled symbols that society believed and respected, a crisis which was reflected in the low confidence of citizens in the institutions of democracy, justice and the rule of law. The darkest instincts of Greek society emerged. He incubated the snake’s egg, dominated the extreme word, cheap demagogy and populism. So Greece does not only need to change our economic and productive model. It requires a change of attitude and a review of our collective standards and objectives. In front of us we have the national milestone of the two hundred years anniversary since 1821, a historic opportunity to reflect on who we are and where we are going, which Greece we envision for the future, which Greece we want for our children. We politicians have to prove that we deserve citizens' confidence again. With our actions and results and not with words we will convince us that a major political change is taking place. The New Democracy Government marks this much wider change and the budget, in a faithful implementation of the plans, shows that we finally have the first government that was prepared to implement what it promised. This is reflected in both the budget and in the general plan which the government willly, determination, speed and efficiency has been implementing since the next elections. It is a three-axle project. The first axis is reform. We shall boldly move on to institutional changes that seek to make the policy of a more general change of attitude. We universally implement anti-smoking law, restore citizens' security in their homes and neighborhoods, abolish the asylum of lawlessness in universities, promote digital governance, lay the foundations for a modern and flexible state of order, reduce bureaucratic obstacles, modernise PPC, promote environmentally friendly actions. The second axis is the change in the budget mix and the reduction in taxes and levies. Since the first few days we have reduced HPAI for all citizens, we have improved the regulation for the hundred and twenty instalments, we have abolished the capital controls, we have reduced the tax rate for businesses and incomes up to EUR 10,000, we have increased the tax rate for every child and we have strengthened the property market. In 2020, the conditions are expected to allow tax reductions for both natural persons and for non-wage businesses, which will increase the income available to both businesses and workers and stimulate economic activity. The third axis is one of the strongest banking systems free of red loans. Given the criticality of the problem, last week we voted in Parliament on the draft "HRAKLIS" for the effective management of the large volume of non-performing loans which allows banks to support the real economy by increasing liquidity. The results of our policy are tangible, namely: Change of the economic climate, vertical reduction of Greece's borrowing interest rates, a marked increase of confidence in the Greek Stock Exchange, an increase of investment interest, a clear improvement in the economic climate index, an increase in consumer and business confidence, the creation of a financial space that allows for the gradual exercise of a social policy that we want. Faithful to the project that development and social sensitivity are going together, we have already taken a series of measures that relieved our most vulnerable and weak fellow citizens. We paid social dividends to the citizens most in need, the HEIs and the multitude families, forwarded the heating allowance, accelerated the issue of sixty-six thousand widows' pensions, abolished the luxurious living tax for the multiples and even granted an allowance of 2,000 euros for each child born. At the same time, the budget will increase by EUR 236 million. Ladies and gentlemen, is that enough? Oh, no. But we're trying to improve the situation. Within these months we have already done a great deal. We have more and more difficulty in front of us and we will remain committed to our reform agenda. Allow me, because of developments in our national issues, to make a brief reference. Undoubtedly we have been facing one of the most critical periods in recent decades. Our firm compass is the principles and values, as set out by Constantine Karamanlis, with our participation in the core of the European Union and the Western Alliance. The active and multi-dimensional foreign policy, pursued responsibly by both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, results in the universal support and solidarity of our allies and our reinstatement as a leader in the Balkans. In Greek-Turkish we seek good neighbourliness and cooperation. We are open to dialogue under international law. But we are always ready to defend our national rights and national sovereignty in every way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Our strategy for national defence is based on modernising the operation of the army, investing in technology and modern weapons systems and developing the property of the Armed Forces. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the first budget of the New Democracy Government is giving both internally and externally a strong message of development prospects, economic and social prosperity. It inspires the change of philosophy and practice in the model of governance that reshapes citizens' confidence relations - politicians. It preaches the revolution of reason and the change of collective mentality. It creates optimism for everyone for the liberation of creativity and the development of entrepreneurship. We are proud of this budget and we invite you to vote for it for the good of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u126	Ms. Aleka Papapagiga, from the Communist Party of Greece, and after the list of speakers, Mr. Giannoulis from SYRIZA, Mr. Thraniotis from SYRIZA, Mr. Kouvelas from New Democracy and Mr. Mousalas from SYRIZA, will follow. Let's go fours. Here you go, Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u127	In my opinion, Mr Lebanese brought us back ten years, when the crisis broke out, and then the theoretical or theoretical brains of the New Democracy and PASOK were talking about a crisis of overconsumption, which they were of course putting on the people. Then we had SYRIZA who, when it was opposition, was shouting about the problem of subconsumption, and today, there are some indicators which say that the single index of consumption is rising. I will not go into the debate and the term 'consumption' because it has from theoretical to practical aspects. However, you put in the same bag the needs of the working class and the populaces that shape the vast majority of wealth, with the needs of those who exploit them. And yet, if you want to incorporate and corruption, it is the distorting consumption that grows the system and you may also have subconsumption and distorting consumption. So I'm on my way. The policy of the New Democracy, as illustrated not only in its programme and in its election promises, but also in the laws it has brought, together with the state budget that the MPs of the JRC have demonstrated that it is a tax-free, anti-social, anti-liberal, anti-liberal, anti-liberal, and so forth, it has a prerequisite to implement, in particular as regards the invitation of Greek and foreign investors to shape, build, build new businesses in Greece or buy, if any, many of the existing ones, or to invest in mountain volumes, beaches, shores and others. This prerequisite, therefore, is tension, an increase in state repression. That is, of course, no news. There's no government - and SYRIZA's, against everything he said in the election that he didn't at some point use state repression. In fact, he used state repression and under conditions that the movement was not at a great stimulus, but was in relative or even more substantial retreat. It's inevitable. Whatever you say, you can't do any other way. Because, look at you, no matter how much you make fun of the world, now he's more mature. She also passed her "first time on the left", reappearing the New Democracy, which seems to be upgraded, does criticism in her past and self-criticism - the one she does, the hypocritical - at some point she will understand that it is not right that hope dies lately. She must die on time and as valid as possible so that no more time is lost. Therefore, repression is on the agenda. I will not disagree with the SYRIZA Members who refer to specific cases of state repression. At least those who mentioned were real. However, what shows the great hypocrisy of SYRIZA is that it restricts the issue of state repression. But state repression cannot work unless it is based on direct and indirect employers' violence and employers' repression. And if you want, as long as you grow up - and grow up - the employers' repression and the new businesses that will come, state repression will be limited to some streets, some common spaces. Big violence from there starts. Here's a word! Go on, too much for SYRIZA to mess with a businessman who, if he happens and is a New Democracy's best friend, he's gonna get rid of him. And on this occasion, let me tell you this. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, every day you come out and say that there can't be a thousand people blocking the streets, it can't be two thousand, it can't be three thousand. Of course, forget it was ten thousand and twenty thousand and thirty thousand. Because there is the individual right, the right to go through the streets, not to prevent me from concentrating, not being crowded in cars or from having free access to shops. The people's pockets ran out of money and all they have left is to come to the center of Athens - not to other shopping centers - to shop. Could you tell me a country in the world, not now, but since the 19th century, where everyone who belonged to a sector or all of the branches took part in races? I say it for SYRIZA, who made the famous law "written in unions". Unfortunately, in the circumstances of capitalism compared to those who strike, those on the streets in relation to the number of industry or the total number of workers are the fewer. However, thanks to them all the workers, whether they were abducted or afraid, won some conquests. The winners, they took them back, they won something more, sometimes less. Is that how you count them? But here we have governments expressing minorities in relation to the whole of the voters. In fact, SYRIZA has brought us to vote in the Constitution on the possibility of a minority government. Such governments existed in Spain, Portugal and elsewhere. Governments that did not have a majority of seats, which we know that seats are not the same as electoral systems. Some party gets a premium and someone loses. He may lose the second, lose the third etc. Do you have the right to measure how many workers in the industry are and how many people go out on the streets? But is there a worse thing than employers' terrorism? Besides, the state crackdown isn't hidden. When the MATs come out, one, the other and strips protesters, uh, it's going to be known everywhere. And it frightens, but it also creates a reaction. Employer terrorism is terrible. And employers' terrorism has many forms. The whole illusion that took place before the GFCM conference, which did not finally take place, did not rely on the role of the employer? No Minister went to organize fraud. And here the SYRIZA trade unions have shone in important branches, from which they were the chosen children of the employer's lists. Isn't that an ergonomic terrorism? Look, it's gone and it's over. We'll call on the workers not to respect any anti-operative laws. Of course it's not enough not to respect him, it's not enough to convict him. You need to have - and you need to have - the courage to overthrow him, not to apply him in practice. The workers will do it sooner or later. And you started now, this race is a guild, the other one is a guild, the third is a guild. To make something clear, yes, there are racing activities that have colonial requests. What does syndicate demands mean? For years now, the controversy of the New Democracy and PASOK has shaped in some places - I will not now name them - as a trade union demand. So is SYRIZA and New Democracy confrontation. Excuse me. Benefitology, for example. All the fight these days in the budget was if SYRIZA gave benefits to more and if New Democracy gives fewer. Only benefits and not wage increases. We are not talking about family, maternity, etc., for people with disabilities, we are not talking about such allowances, but about some fake on-calls and other things, such as firewood. There is far too much prerogative and it nourishes and cultivates within the trade union movement and the other movements, the coalition. We're not with the guilds at all. We are barely fighting for the massity of the movement, for all forms of struggle, which workers each time shape - and the most uploaded, without regarding these as ends, depending on what workers decide at the time, but in any case, all forms of struggle - and we are interested not only in forms of struggle, because sometimes you can have racing very upward forms of struggle with completely syndicated demands, but also in requests. We, you know very well, that we are talking about anti-capitalist, anti-monopoly struggle that multiplyes, organizes forces and directs the working class and its allies to see that under the appropriate conditions they must overturn the power of the bourgeoisie, the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie. By the way - to finish - all opposition parties criticised the New Democracy. I would like to tell you that on many issues, in particular, he did it was fair. However, I have not heard any opposition parties but the JRC say that they are right for workers to claim the return of the losses, of all the losses from the crisis. It can be done in a year, i.e. the return of the losses. I didn't hear any party. And even I remember SYRIZA saying "we'll be back in 2009". Neither for us is the vision of the 1990s nor of the 2000s nor of 2009, but it is very important that you start claiming on the basis of your modern needs and on the basis of the profitability that will take place, the one that will take place in the coming years, and today there is. In fact, we are not only talking about losses of finance, about what we say in nominal wages or nominal pensions. For example, the Katorugalou law was not only a reduction in pensions. He tied the workers' hands up for fifty years later. And it is not, as you were saying, that you are simply correcting certain things, but making them worse. The way in which the pension is calculated, the rate of replacement, the increase in the retirement age, the increase in the age of thirty-five years that it was, Katrugalos did so in forty, to have a full pension, the sustainability clause for the insurance funds, the separation of pensions into national and payroll, the three pillars of private insurance - which were also before SYRIZA and SYRIZA strengthened them. We are talking, in other words, not just about the return of economic losses, but about those of the structural funds - as you usually say - of measures which will lead workers in the coming years to claim increases and certain rights from a level of zero and below, under zero. So what's your flag? What are the results of the previous government? The downgrading of requirements, the establishment of requirements, the workers. Of course, from this point of view, he tells you 50 euros to get more is a lot. Look, the one missing 100 euros a month, who feels at the end of the month that it is less than 100 euros, actually missing 500 euros and 1000 euros. Think about it. The one who is missing 50 euros and when he gets it says "oh, breathless" he actually misses a lot more. You can't live well and miss them on the 27th or 30th of the 50th euros. It means you miss ten times, at least. So that's what you want: Suppression, employers' violence, prestigious demands. It won't pass you. We're realists. You don't press buttons and the movement starts, but it's certain the people accumulated valuable experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u128	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational attendants from the High School of Arcadias. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Giannoulis Christos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u129	For the record, Mrs Papayannakis, can I tell you that yesterday, a member of the New Democracy questioned 'but with the pensioners' 50th we will now be dealing with'? It's also recorded. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a question as to what happened to the invitation - a challenge which Mr Tsakalots has made to Mr Staikoras, for the most honest ones in the public debate, to have a meeting at which the facts of both sides will be presented, so that there can be undeniable truth. It is a challenge that no one has answered. Mr. Staguras is missing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u130	You're wrong. He's answered. You're not following the conversation. You're not up to date.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u131	He is replaced by Mr. Skylakakis, whom I will be very respectful to say that I can trust him so, listening to him today to defend Mr. Samaras as long as he was an ally of Mrs. Bakoyannis and Mr. Augiakis was in different political camps. All this, of course, because I hear often, Mr Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, your colleagues say that we are being called today in a splendid way to vote for one of the most development budgets in recent years. I wonder if you have the historical feeling that at some point in this Chamber we should convince the citizens that governments are not dealing with lies. And they do not deal with lies much more when they are camouflaged - laugh as much as you like, unfortunately the people cry - in a budget that one anticipates the previous one. It is also in 'neo-democracy'. Before I tell you my opinion on the budget, I will invite you to remember who and why you do not count on them at all. You don't even respect the pretexts. You do not, first of all, consider that voting is no longer a white cheque, a check which leads to arrogance and misdemocracy within the limits of the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. You are not counting on wage earners and pensioners who are still on the suspension caused by bankruptcy, which you have caused. You are not counting about 400 million, which is reduced by social solidarity on the basis of the budget connection between 19 and 20 with the most dishonest, politically dishonorable for your extradition, the 4 million euros that you are reducing, within 400 years, for uninsured over-ages. Mercy! Shame on you! Four million euros are deducted from uninsured over-ages, not to add the remaining figures which make up the sum of 396 million - more than four and would be 400 million, and that is why you were careful. You also do not estimate that all the figures you quote to convince yourself, obviously, that the budget is developmental, it is a mile away from the pompous lies you have made in the elections. I will give you an example which is a kind of vagina, an alchemy. The special education, which has a particular value - and political and social - is of paramount importance, is curious how, within the budget line or within the accounts for natural disasters, for electoral procedures, for a number of things which, alone, co-existence is a social paradox. It may be technical, it may be a maniac, but when we discuss the specific treatment of people with special skills and disabilities, even this could show your sensitivity. You don't care, it's obvious. It can be seen from chapter 2, page 27, of the draft budget. There's all the rest there. How do you manage, in the field of education - I said it earlier - one projection, one prediction of rescinding the previous one? How do you manage, by continuous reductions, to say that you will fill the gaps in education? You're the only ones who know that. Of course, I want to remind you that populism has made him a science. It is only today that Kathimerini, one - I imagine, according to a common confession - hosts statements from the head of PPC, who says this, and technically and politically and politically paradoxical, that Lignite Unit 5 - because you are trying to fight lignite - will be abolished in 2028. It is an investment costing 1.5 billion. The euro. But we don't know which technology we're going to replace. We go blindly, it's a blind date. We're going to abolish it in 2028, the cost is 1.5 billion, we don't know what's going to go on. Of course, populism, which you have made science, has started earlier, since the Prespecies Agreement, intolerance, demagogy, all that is choking you today, because you have to know reality. You're unrepentant. You have attempted to discover even the Golden Dawn Press Office, with a brochure entitled "MAKELIO" but that is not the worst. The worst thing is not the way you tried to justify it. And that does not make your resignation credible to budget for the interests of the Greek people. You said: “We? SYRIZA! "We? SYRIZA!’ SYRIZA has legislated - and because I see Mr Rousopoulos, who has a great deal of experience in the press - SYRIZA has legislated to strengthen the press, which we all agree - if we get rid of our party small-scaleism - that the media needs support, there is no need for agreements under the table. SYRIZA therefore legislated to strengthen the press, based on criteria, based on data and commitments, which prohibited funding by a joint ministerial decision of the brochure entitled "MAKELIO" and is the Golden Dawn Press Office. But you're looking for allies from everywhere. You're not even stopping at this. Finally, I will not get tired - even though many colleagues have said so - of your gift of lying to make it true and of social wounds of communication. Your arithmetics, whether they are within the budget or within your political and party rhetoric, cannot be arithmetic 'I repatriate five hundred skilled scientists, but I am driving another five and a half thousand with half a foot abroad'. You may not have received the slightest care for high-qualified graduates. These are the perfect ones, not the Diamandians and all the others who got away with it. Where did you discover them I wanted to know, who was that perfect competition you did to end up with all of them. So in that case, you did not receive any welfare for these five and a half thousand scientists, except to be told that five hundred young people will return. I would like to tell you that I am voting against this budget, because since 7 July, because the citizens have trusted me with this responsibility, and also with the party I respect and serve, and with the fact that I am serving, I feel that the most important thing they are asking is to stop the truth of the government being the great lie in society and the citizens. For everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I would like, please, to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u133	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u134	I would like to respond to the specific point raised by the honourable Member. I leave the personal things he said about whether or not he trusts me. Who one trusts is his topic.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u135	You weren't in this party?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u136	You're very welcome. Quiet. We will listen to the Minister and close the matter, Mr Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u137	Your Honor, you are uninformed. After seven minutes we have an appointment, which we closed last night, with Mr. Juliarakis and Mrs. Ahtsioglou, following the letter sent by Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotos to Mr. Stoura, and we will also have a service representation as a debt. And for this matter, you don't have to trust me, trust the General Accounting Office of the State. When I came and took my place, the first thing I did was that I officially asked to tell me how much financial space there is. I have received the relevant document, and I am invoking this document, and I am telling you again what exactly it was describing. Actually, it's an entire spreadsheet. It says EUR 396 million in the budget gap for 2019, with the calculations of 10 July 2019, and EUR 1,080 million in the budget gap for 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, I would like to reply because 'dayless' is personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u139	You have no say, Mr Giannoulis, that is not what this is all about. Please. But is this a charge now? Sit down. Mr. Thraniotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u140	Are you ignoring me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u141	No, I'm not ignoring anyone. Please sit down. I didn't give you the floor. Not provided.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u142	Don't you want to hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u143	And the three hundred, I want to hear. But I am not here to listen to the three hundred or whoever wants to address the Bureau for some reason, I am here to conduct this debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u144	Then do it well.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Thraniotus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the 2020 budget today, which reflects the intentions, pursuits and orientation of the government, in a few words, in what direction does it close the eye with its choices. One might wonder: 'Well, have you waited for the budget to understand its intentions?' Obviously not. But the budget is the mirror from which no one can hide, and this one confirms the criticism we have so far made in the budgetary and, more generally, in the economic policy of the New Democracy. This is a budget, which is neither social nor development, although it is submitted at a time of favourableness, as the government itself admits in the draft law that we are discussing, after leaving the memoranda. As soon as the day before yesterday, our country borrowed almost zero interest rates, with what this implies for the sustainability of public debt and the economy. Of course, you are able to say that this is due to your own successes. You have fruits of our government policy, which has increased the competitiveness of the Greek economy. We have reduced unemployment by eleven points, from 27% to 16%, we have supported the weakest social strata with social solidarity income, housing benefits, the abolition of the subsistence and the increase in the minimum wage, as well as the coverage of our uninsured fellow citizens. We delivered cash-flows of about EUR 35 billion, unlike you left empty funds in 2015, betting on 'left parentheses'. In short, if the Greek economy today shows evidence of recovery, if it runs a little better on its feet, it owes it mainly to our own good management. The budget presented for a debate by the government marks the return to the Memorandum of Understanding, and indeed to a Memorandum of Understanding, which means that while we were legislating under the threat of the troika, which reminds us of the fact that you are stirring up, today you are reducing taxation on the profits of businesses, at the same time that you are making cuts in the welfare state, rich benefits and tax relief for the strong, crumbs for small and medium-sized enterprises. Indicative is also the statements made by Mr Stavoura to abolish the thirteenth pension that SYRIZA has passed. Out of this year's social dividend at EUR 175 million, in two hundred and fifty thousand beneficiaries, compared to 700 million and a multiple number of beneficiaries in 2015. So he's not generous with low and middle incomes at all. It doesn't relieve middle class. Let us also point to the most famous statements, about the middle class and who are it, of what income criteria start at EUR 450 per month. I mean, 6,000 euros a year. The benefits of leaving the country from the Memorandum of Understanding and lasting development from our own governance, not only are they not geared to the needs of the large social majority but, on the contrary, they are distributed in exactly the way that led us to the crisis and bankruptcy. This is well illustrated by the cut in the EUR 175 million pre-school allowances, the social by EUR 150 million, the rental allowance by EUR 50 million, EUR 30 million less in school meals, and the OAED's employment programmes are reduced by EUR 75 million. If these are not cuts to the detriment of many, then what are they? EUR 700 million for the reduction of taxes on undertakings as a priority, and the dividends they distribute through tax relief only to large companies, because they are highly profitable and can divide high dividends. It is true that the first measures you have adopted at the direction of BSE and employers at the expense of workers are the abolition of justified dismissal and the responsibility of a contractor and subcontractor. The worst: you refused a constitutional ratification of a law tabled by SYRIZA in Revision of the Constitution of equal pay for equal work, independent of age. Refusal to the introduction of the insulting and derogating regulation of the under-paid wage for young people under the age of twenty-five, extinguishing them to exploitation and migration. As far as the area of health is concerned, we are concerned about the lack of planning, the health needs you intend to cover and the target. By strengthening the public health system or by buying services from the private sector? In our own administration, the restriction of contract services has made a significant contribution to saving resources with better working conditions and pay for workers. We stabilised the health system, which was bleeding and largely stopped the fleeing of new doctors abroad. We have implemented free access to health services for all our uninsured fellow citizens, while at the same time deleting 28 million accredited tax debts, while freezing another 150 million not transferred to the tax. I should like to refer to Lassithi with the considerable support of staff, medical and other staff, but also with the increased support of hospital budgets. We have been able to open a closed clinic for years and restore security for our fellow citizens. All of this has been implemented within a narrow budgetary framework. The citizens felt the change and effort that we made in the area of health you had deceived. I find it difficult, of course, to believe that you will support with the same passion all this effort and not see the health system as a brilliant field of investment opportunity, with increased costs in the patient's backs. In conclusion, I would like to refer to the Lassithi Law, which with the SYRIZA Government finally saw being treated on an equal footing with the other prefectures of Crete. They were also divided into university schools in our county, with the establishment of the new university. Development projects were launched, financed by the "Philodimos I" and "Philodimos II" programme, with a total of more than 25 million euros, which were approved without mediation as sought by the current Minister. I want to believe that the attempt to reap every measure of the SYRIZA government for the county will not cancel planned projects. I fear, however, that, following the reply given by the Minister for Infrastructure to a timely question by Mr Manolis Syntagakis, we will say goodbye to the northern road that we are waiting for. Many government MPs from this party are challenging SYRIZA because he has not been able to do all the previous ones in four years in your policy. Just to remind the Greek Bank of Greece's secret report on October 6, 2009, which said that debt has escaped and is no longer viable. As much as you are trying to purify yourself into the swimming pool of Siloam, history is a ruthless judge and in history it has been recorded that the country has been bankrupt by your policies and this, however much you are trying, does not change. It is therefore an additional reason to vote against the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u147	Thank you. Next speaker, Mr Kouvella, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, we are discussing the first government budget of the New Democracy with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. A budget of substance, optimism, but above all realism. A budget which seals a different mix of policy, less burdens and more investment. A budget which has been drawn up in conditions of constant effort since the summer, for the complete stabilisation and strengthening of our economy. Let us not forget that, just last June, the General Accounting Office of the State and the Commission in their report on the progress of the Greek economy estimated that, after the election benefits of May by the previous SYRIZA government, there was a great risk of not achieving the primary surplus target in 3.5% of GDP, which would lead to a budget gap, and that would, of course, entail additional measures - necessarily, there was no other solution and option - for the 2020 budget, which were estimated at more than EUR 1 billion. In its new report, the Commission said not only a month ago that there is no asterisk or fear for this year, but that the budget we are debating today was approved, which provides for a reduction of EUR 1.2 billion. The country now submits balanced budgets. In fact, for the first time in her history she borrows at negative interest rates, she borrows cheaper than the United States of America, as was very recently admitted by the Minister of Trade, Mr Ross, who was in Athens. It is in any case on a continuous upward path from summer. In a word, that is, the markets are downgrading our economy and betting on it. At the same time, we are completely abolishing, removing the restrictions on capital movements and continuing upgrades to our economy's creditworthiness. I think they've been giving answers about what's, in particular, changed to the level of confidence and psychology in the last six months. The budgetary gap that SYRIZA left came and became a budget space for tax reductions and the Greek budget was finally commended, when budgets from other Member States - members of the euro area were returned for corrections. The Mitsotakis government has given the signal of the new economic policy since its first days. Less taxes, more investment. Smaller surpluses, larger space for growth. Less burdens in productive Greece, more and better jobs. It is true that the budget has been drawn up with several external unstable factors coming into force at the present time. The Balkan region presents conditions and outbreaks of instability. The Eastern Mediterranean is faced with dangers that tend to shape the region's backbone. Europe is being touched on by a generalised awkwardness, and it is being exacerbated by the need to manage the sure thing now, Brexit, after the recent results of the British elections. Under this unstable external environment, the 2020 budget manages to serve specific economic, political and social objectives, for even better everyday life. It is based on a philosophy of social solidarity and support for our weakest fellow citizens. These are the programming commitments of the Mitsotakis Government. These are the guarantees that we promised in the run-up to elections and programmes to our fellow citizens, and they are being carried out. A number of characteristic points are those on which I will stand very briefly: Point one. The budget provides for a significant increase in the growth rate of the Greek economy, from 1.5% observed in the first half of 2019 to 2.8% for 2020. The new government's economic policy aims to increase investment dynamically in the country to gradually reach pre-crisis levels. I would remind you that we are at 12% in investment rate compared with 20% which is the average European condition. It is worth noting that 2019 is expected to close with growth of over 2%, making it possible to achieve the target of 2.8% for 2020 absolutely feasible. Point two. The budget we are voting on tomorrow comes to confirm the tax bill that passed ten days ago and received support from the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. We have said that directly, ladies and gentlemen. Point 3. The budget we are discussing also provides for a more efficient and less costly state. We are moving on to drastically adjusting the expenditure limits of the regular budget to reduce the under-utilisation shown in previous years and to create a financial space to alleviate the tax burden on citizens. We are establishing the new special reserve for expenditure, particularly in the fields of education, health, security, social welfare and defence. This special reserve will be used for the systematic strengthening of the relevant ministries, the ministries concerned, throughout the year. We are putting rules to combat tax evasion, reduce the paradox and widen the tax base, so as to make the citizens consistent with their obligations all these years. Our aim is to reward these citizens who have put back on their obligations, to support the economy. It is time for someone to talk about green borrowers at last. Point 4. There is an end to the policy of overcrowding and the aim is to rationalise the objective. I would remind you that between 2016 and 2018, on the altar of the high primary surpluses, they were removed from the economy and mainly from the Greek households of around 11.5 billion euros. I do not hide from you that I would like to see the budget line on the expenditure of the Armed Forces reinforced. We can all realise that in addition to the determination we have in defending our sovereign rights and national unity, which is true that it is at high levels at this time, modern armament is needed. Unfortunately, times do not allow for discounts in the area of the Armed Forces and our defence spending. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, with the new economic policy the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis proves by means of acts that it strengthens social justice and cohesion and is trying to regenerate the middle class. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] I hear you, colleagues of the SYRIZA, criticise and move your finger, saying that the middle-class is affected by the tax bill that passed the other day and the budget that we are discussing. So, they're talking who? The ones who reduced the tax? The ones who cut off the C.E.S.S.? Those who increased their health contributions to main and supplementary pensions? The people who added, did they legislate, twenty-nine new taxes? We are voting for the first, essentially developmental, optimistic and budgetaryly integrated budget in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, since the previous period, where the government has been trying to cut off the heavy duty imposed on allowances - fireworks, it is time for us to really support the citizens, the employees, the pensioners, the professionals, the farmers, especially the middle class. Read the budget carefully and I am sure you will come to our words. We owe them the enormous sacrifices they have made over the years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u149	And we thank Mr. Kouvella from New Democracy. Mr Ioannis Muzalas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget is one of the most important laws of the state, restrictive for all year round. So this is a very important debate. In what environment is this debate going on today? The police, in special areas, with special bodies, are increasing violence against the citizen and establishing something that we old juntas have known, strips the civilians, seeks them in their secrets. I'm making an appeal. I met the police as Minister of Immigration. A House which has shown itself to be democratic, not to let any anti-democratic practices, such as those that are fragmentary, occur in the centre of Athens. ‘Law and order’ was probably not imposed. The attacks of the 'bugs', as they say, increased, went to the periphery too. They just emptied three or four occupations. Measures were taken to repatriate five hundred scientists from abroad with drum impacts. It was buried that four and a half thousand as serious scientists are being fired. We have fallen into the Turkish- Libyan memorandum which, I will agree with Mr Syragos, creates reciprocity and political side effects for our country. The NSA, where we were happy to appoint a postgraduate student of music, was unable to inform us in time to move in such a direction. Unless they'd let us know and we didn't move. The Minister of Government doesn't get enough. Every month, he wants more privatization. He wants it all. And it is presented to foreign investment centres as "the haystack". He can't get enough. This government wants more privatization and other privatization, without integrating them into a development plan, in a context of development. We have a dividend cut for three million people. Mrs Papariga spoke of the value of 50 euros. You cannot understand it, colleagues of the New Democracy, no matter how many of you come from such circles, which 50 euros would once be the decisive between dignity and lack of dignity. And you are happy about that and you say 'we're talking about it'. And because you said it, you did it and three million people collect it. The third pension is abolished, and there is no reason, as Mr Metarakis and Mr Brutsis say, to rejoin the political debate. "FINANCIAL TIMES" say about bankers, they say about money laundering, they say about acquittal of all of them. Industrial production fell in October 7.7%. A hundred and thirty-two thousand redundancies were made in the same month. With re-appointment, we have thirty thousand lost jobs. In justice, the lawyers are attacking the government for interference with the rule of law yesterday and the judges confirmed yesterday, blaming the government for the same reason. Appointments are something that you were ready for. Father is the tip of the iceberg. It's nothing. Because here we have best friends, cowards, pedophiles. The president of New Democracy from this city, from Preveza, goes to Arta, from Arta to Preveza. The state of excellence is with fake certificates that some say more will be found. You lied. And under this perspective we will also judge the budget, which is taxly unfair, because it favours those who have great wealth, it is indifferent to the majority of people and it makes it difficult for those who are not in possession. You have no way of promoting growth, bringing investment. I spend every day in Greek. I'm afraid the bulldozers will kill me. So far, I've avoided this thing. Nor do we have any noise from the works that are done or anything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Also, he denounces one company that your consultants are advisers of the other company. And you turn around and say, "We are hailers. We're not getting old. We want investments." You don't do anything. I'll tell you about the refugee. Six times in six months, every month you make a tatarjoom unbelievable. Televisions, channels, statements. Six times you lie to the Greeks. Six times you suggest measures in which we could have a very serious debate on the barbarity that they are possessing if they were not ineffective and ineffective. What have you said six times with different people? Decongestion. You're kidding, of course. You received five thousand two hundred, eighteen thousand in Mytilini, three thousand in Samos, are seven thousand, a thousand five hundred in Chios, six thousand. What a decongestion. Border security. You're kidding, of course. What are the border guards? From Evros to Thessaloniki they laugh about Evros, where you put wires. What's up with the wires? It's like you're going to put wires on the coast of Lesvos. Once half of the river passes, it belongs to Greece, we have to take him, arrest him and put him in international procedures. It's sad to see a general's picture like Mr. Stefani exquisite that they put on a horizontal string of wires. The army will take them off the coast unless you think we'll let them die of hunger or cold on the coast. You'll tell us. For the first time, money is received from the budget for the wonderfully closed centers. Why is that so? Because European law does not allow the European Union to fund this inappropriate barbaric idea. Where are you going to do the closed centers, gentlemen? We don't know anywhere. Nothing's started at all. But it is no coincidence that Mr. Stefanis came out with a map of the Levithas. I therefore claim that, in addition to the inability you have, you are already overreacting to the inability to drive the Greeks through social automation and fatigue, to accept the solution with Levitha and the dry islands as a necessary evil. There you drive things, so you catalyse every concept of a state as formed in the European Union by the Enlightenment and then, where the Ministry exists and the army obeys the Ministry, there is the Ministry of Shipping and the port is obeying its Ministry, there is the Ministry that has immigration policy and asylum work autonomously there. You're getting everything mixed up together. You make them the beginning of a man who is directly subject to the Prime Minister. And you do not protect the Prime Minister, who all those who come to speak from New Democracy say "Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Kyriakos Mitsotakis". You will put the Greek people in shame for centuries, because you will take the situation to the mountains. It is not inappropriate, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr SYRIZA's colleague. It's a plan we have to resist. We must protect our people from this thing, which will mark our history. Listen, I often say, it's not whether you love or don't love refugees. It's not whether you love or don't love immigrants. It's if you think you're a rule of law and you have to defend the rule of law. You have to defend rights and demand obligations. You don't. You don't want to do it locked up in your ideoscopy. You'll proceed to Levitha and to dry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u151	Finish, Mr. Muzala.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u152	I shall conclude, Mr President. The transformed SYRIZA of the progressive party will be with the people against these plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u154	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u155	I had a closure that I want to say, guys. You're a '65 P.E. You're not a New Democracy. You're on your way to Alarm. Look at it for those of you who want to stay New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Muzala, you're done. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u157	First of all, I would like to say to Mr Muzala that the New Democracy is the liberal party that has put the country in Europe and when all SYRIZA and your left-wing soul have fought the European perspective, it has defended the country's stay in Europe with courage and political costs. That's not to start the stories of parentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u158	Let's get them started.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u159	Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u160	Here is a question about immigration - refugee. The question is: has the SYRIZA policy been implemented over the last few years? Was it a policy that made you proud?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u161	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u162	Was it a policy that took credit all over the planet? Or was it a policy that had two thousand headlines condemning Greece for its inhuman behaviour? It has caused political developments across Europe. He maned extreme right movements in all European countries because they feared the management that was being done here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u163	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u164	The point is, you've reached one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u165	Greece has decided to do something that it did not do in previous years.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u166	Please, you're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u167	Please, I have the right to speak. Please write down time. I do not accept a holiday from the Bureau. Greece has decided to make a policy that you unfortunately did not. It is a policy that is not outside European rules and rules of international law. It is a policy that says: I am shielding my borders as much as I can - both land and sea. I am strengthening this surveillance and, at the same time, creating a mechanism to operate this agreement that you defended, the joint declaration of Europe - Turkey, which imposes the refund mechanism, which has not been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u168	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u169	Please let it be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u170	Because in the hundred thousand people who came to Greece after the Europe-Turkey Joint Declaration, you managed to send back just a thousand eight hundred and this one from...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u171	Since the 7th of July, how many did you get back?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u172	Please, no dialogue. You will, if you will, answer your parliamentary representative or you when you are on your way up to the Step. Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u173	And today we are trying to set up this mechanism, at a time when flows have multiplyed due to many different factors, including Ankara's choice to exacerbate its relationship with Europe. And instead of listening to a political criticism of Europe, which was the usual elephant of SYRIZA, we are today hearing a political criticism that the New Democracy was supposedly trying to build a drystorm and has made a plan to build a drystorm and make a policy, he says, in the 1950s and 40s. You're wrong. You're reading the data wrong. It is a problem that you have not delivered something for which we must be happy and proud. We are trying to improve it at all levels at a time when conditions are becoming more unfavourable. And one last thing that we do should have been done a long time ago. The Ministry of Migration Policy Minister, which we abolished, did not have the responsibilities of the national coordinator and at last there is a national coordinator working both on border guarding and internal management. Because throughout the past period no one knew who manages and what, for the first time, we have involved local government agencies in this process too, so that we do not get to the phenomenon of finding local societies that feel excluded from the decisions of the central authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u174	And we thank the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Varvitsiotis. Mr. Maximos Sedetakis has the floor from Heraklion and we will close the tenth cycle of speakers with Mrs. Meropi Jufi from Yannina.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy has been given a clear mandate to govern the country, because Greece was last in investment and was the first to unemployment among the countries of the European Union. It was a country that over-taxed its citizens so that they could not bear the excessive burden. Only in the last three years have the outstanding public debts increased by EUR 18.1 billion. It is the country that is missing about five hundred thousand scientists, who are needed to run the development train. These performances are sufficient, to describe the situation that we have received, to the extent necessary, to compare the work of the government at the end of the four-year period. We will be told, of course, by the populists that when the numbers prosper, the citizens are unhappy. So imagine - I answer - what happens when the numbers are miserable, what citizens do. The good thing about the numbers, however, is that they are not questioned. And when a country has a colossal investment gap, high unemployment, this is reflected in the daily lives of citizens. Benefits simply fool unhappiness, they don't deal with it. It is not just a question of working time, it is a question of working time, but also of working time. So because we all want social welfare and unemployment to be reduced, we agree that increasing investment, domestic and foreign, is vitally important, we agree that new money on the market is a one-way road. In order to have investment, however, we must proceed with a series of reforms that will make business easier. To leave the seventy-ninth place of Doing Business, where we become today, policies are needed to make it clear and certain the prospect of profit for anyone who wants to bring their money to Greece. There will be a profit for him, but also for society, which means respect for employment rights and protection of the environment. That's what we did. The law on the state at last was intended. The new development law was intended there. The tax rate there was going to be. This budget is also aimed at. Because, ladies and gentlemen, facilitating investment is a profound social measure. Giving the opportunity to work is the maximum social contribution and the only way to get our children back. Social contribution is also to house the state. You don't want a state that accumulates 11.4 billion unnecessarily overcrowded by fixing the market. You want a state of managers, which accurately budgets state spending, respect taxpayers' money, set targets, measure results. It was enough to streamline revenue to save the surpluses without depriving any of the social benefits. The first housekeeping came in and the first score came in. Firstly, the budget gap of EUR 396 million was covered by the election benefits of the previous government. So, Mr. Chakalote, what should we do? They're going to tell you to the Commission. There was then a surplus compared with a target of 436 million and there was no deduction of social benefits. In other words, in a few months the budgetary result has increased by 832 million. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not magically, they are reasonable. Citizens realised that the state finally houses and responded to the favorable regulation of one hundred and twenty instalments, offering critical liquidity at the start of the new government. But they responded, and why the government immediately began to reduce taxes, as we promised by election. I would remind you that HPAI has been cut by 22%, the tax rate has been reduced from 28% to 24% and much more, but faster than we have said. Ladies and gentlemen, everything that this government has done so far has been socially sound and socially imprinted. That is why it regains citizens' confidence every day. And citizens' confidence will be built on as far as we move towards a further reduction in taxes and the broadening of the social base as well as on targeted social benefits such as EUR 2 000 for each newborn child. As long as the government wins the people's trust, it will also gain the confidence of the markets. Already in October, 10-year bonds were issued with the historically low yield of 1.5% where they were 3.9% last March. At the same time something had never happened before. Institutional investors have actually paid for their money by buying Greek short bills at a negative interest rate, please. And that goes on to date. Aren't these developments socially reflected? But think about it. When money becomes cheap for the state, it becomes cheap for the banks, for businesses, and finally for our households. At the same time, confidence has also brought about the removal of capital controls, the banking system is not at risk with capital leakage, it is optimistic and it is looking forward to the repatriation of capital. This, in conjunction with the 'HRAKLIS' programme adopted, is moving forward and will gradually solve the problem of red loans. It will restore the banks to their development role and to the financing of the real economy. And within all of this, by 2023, we will receive the 5.1 billion from the European Central Bank, which will give us another dimension to public investment, offering funding solutions, as will BOAK for us down in Crete. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the reasons why citizens trust the government and this social acquis will be safeguarded, because it is the crucial issue and the prerequisite for economic development, that is to say, that the citizens feel that they live in a sincere and fair state, with a government ally in every need but also in every ambitious project. The confidence of citizens and markets is the spark that will trigger a virtuous cycle of economic progress that we all seek. And to close as I have started, if this four-year governance cycle of the New Democracy leads to an increase in investment and a reduction in unemployment, then that is not something that the government and Kyriakos Mitsotakis will only fruit it for our country and our children. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of the 2020 budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much Mr. Sedetakis. Mrs. Merope Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA and beautiful Yanna.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget presented by the Government for 2020 confirms the true political plan of the New Democracy, a plan which was diligently dismissed by the election and which is now well-prescribed by the members of the Government and the Prime Minister. However, beyond the vague triumphs of the ministers, the numbers, as many have said, are ruthless and the neoliberal political plan in particular, giving a lot to the few and a few. More specifically, it seems that the New Democracy considers that in the government of SYRIZA everything needed to strengthen the social state has been done. Otherwise, it does not explain that, apart from the EUR 2 000 measure for every child, health and education expenditure is, in fact, well-established, while they are being reduced for welfare and social protection. For example, in a total of 1.2 billion positive measures, the increase in spending on the social state is of the order of only 120 million, i.e. 10%. The rest are aimed at reducing taxation in a way that favours the expropriation of the economic elite rather than medium and low incomes. As far as education is concerned, the government is in favour of increasing funding. The minister responsible consumed her speech yesterday in idealized acronyms, avoiding actually focusing on the number that shows that the government's budget for education is a clear budgetary retreat. Even after the break-up of research, the increase is anemic, disguising any expectations of the memorial era and overlooking the enormous needs of the educational system. Ladies and gentlemen, reading her education finances from 2009 until today reveals the great economic adventure of our country as a whole. Thus, from 2009 to 2015, expenditure fell by 34%, while the Samaras government's medium-term projected cuts of 1 billion. In 2015 we received the education system in unstable conditions, with key elements of sub-financing and sub-selling. There have been brutal efforts to prevent creditors agreed with them, while in 2016 - and then - we have enabled the budget of education to be increased by about 200 million a year. This was mainly reflected in the last budget of 2019, where the increase is 6.2%. In this context, it was possible to launch fifteen thousand permanent recruitments after ten years of aptitude, care for two thousand ICP members and five thousand two hundred young researchers at universities, and the rule of "one to one" was established on departures, recruitments to accelerate the coverage of the gaps. At the same time, at this stage, and as the establishment of the single area of higher education and research evolved, there were also financial support to institutions with additional grants for infrastructure and staff, while in the same direction, targeted financial tools were used for critical areas of education, in order to develop important programmes in special education and vocational training. Can anyone be happy? Apparently, no. There was only one stabilisation and initial reversal of the image, since targeting should be and should be at 4% of GDP, converging with the European average for state funding. We now come more specifically to New Democracy's budget for education. Payroll costs are an increase of 3.6%, given, however, that the number of regular staff remains unchanged. Obviously, this increase reflects the expected wage maturities and, perhaps, additionally favourable benefits for officials at the offices of the Ministers and the Secretary-General. The Minister responsible spoke to us yesterday about new recruitments entered in the regular payroll code, creating reasonable questions. The report does not describe anything in this respect and does not clarify the timetable. More specifically, the appropriations under code 21 are only increased by about EUR 100 million for all grades, primary, secondary, higher and special education, which, as I said before, marginally covers the average trend of wage maturities and therefore leaves no room for the pay coverage of new recruitments. In addition, the estimated cost of EUR 22 million last year to cover special education and training for all four thousand five hundred recruits, after not complete in 2009, was lost. Or rather, to be precise, it was given as an exceptional grant to universities - because the same figure obviously cannot be random, the EUR 22 million - since it was not possible for the Ministry to implement this commitment. On the other hand, in recruitment under code 29, which is the regular reserve, the relevant expenditure is about half of 2019. In addition, care for the funds is general and deliberately unclear. So we ask: Despite the positive announcement of the five thousand permanent recruitments to general education in 2020, how exactly will this be done? What is the timetable for their implementation, since there is no clear record of the budget? On the other hand, we have a reduction in operating requirements of EUR 338 million, a 36% reduction in transport costs, a reduction in the purchases of goods and services. All this in order to finance the tax reliefs to which I have referred, which clearly prescribes restrictive interventions, particularly in the distribution of university studies. Of course, it clearly prescribes the reduction of vital appropriations for the operation of schools and universities, the withdrawal of the State from the obligation to finance public education which forms conditions, where privatisation and tuition will be presented as the necessary and saving option. In addition, with regard to universities, the reduction in public funding has already been announced by the forthcoming assessment and the establishment of the new party-facilitated PPP, which will do the difficult work instead of the government, but on behalf of the Government. This assessment - there is no doubt - will lead to many regional divisions in masturbation and closure, the introduction of tuition fees, the search for resources outside the public purse, the organisation of accurate postgraduate diplomas, and ultimately the mobilisation of indirect privatisation. Is that something new? Oh, no. Has it been implemented in the past? Sure. We have similar examples of this. There is international experience. It is typical of the English universities, where in 2010 conservatives reduced the budget for teaching needs in the third, forcing universities to introduce a tuition fee of £9.000 and for students to be converted into customers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As time is not enough, I would like another minute, Mr President. I would like to say two words about the part of the investigation, which is so critical. It has been our times and under difficult conditions to double spending on research at about 1% of GDP. On the contrary, after its transfer to the Ministry of Development, its budget is reduced to levels lower than those of 2017. While a great deal of work was produced with the Hellenic Institute for Research and Innovation, which enabled young scientists to create actions that surpassed the 300 million, ten thousand new quality jobs were created in universities and research centres, 463 million and innovation with 860 million euros, leading to Greece - which is the thing - in position sixty of the eighty in innovation. Therefore, the disfellowshipment of research by the Ministry of Education, its sub-funding to the Ministry of Development, is a retrogressive originality, without any consultation with the academic and research community that delivers research activity to the private interests, undermines basic research and seriously calls into question the future of social and human sciences. On this basis, therefore, we are voting against the New Democracy budget as a whole and more specifically on education. Our strategic plan is on the reverse of the neoliberal policy implemented by the government. The New Democracy perceives education as a merchandise, schools and universities as business, students and students as customers. In the educational commodity of the free market, SYRIZA contrasts education with freedom and lifelong selection. Education and research carried out at universities and public research centres in the country are a key lever for the development of the country. The increase in expenditure, therefore, in these areas, at least, on the average of the countries of the European Union, is a direct necessity and a claiming framework for fighting the country's progress towards a definitive exit from the economic crisis. In this direction we will move in search of fellow students and fellow students, students, parents, workers, researchers and teachers of all levels. Because for us the social state and rights are the heart of our vision and our political programme. The progressive and conservative concept of the 21st century will be opposed to this. We are convinced that the world of work and the new generation will be mobilised to prevent the policies that you are introducing and which, unfortunately, will have disastrous results for the vast social majority. Thank you very much for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u178	So do we.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u180	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u181	Mr President, I have listened with great interest to Mrs Jufi's position, and I would like to take note of the remarks that she referred to me personally. He said, 'cleaned expenditure on education and budgetary retreat'. I understand from this, Mrs Jufi, that you consider the additional EUR 113 million that we give to education as a retreat. I understand from this that you consider the almost ten thousand recruitments - permanent appointments - to education that has not been done for more than a decade and that retreat, which you have never done. But because people see you, people judge. You said the recruitments weren't planned. I direct you to Special Body 1019206000000. You'll see the relevant entries there. Third point: EUR 22 million has been lost, you say. Untrue, Mrs. Jufi. I'm so sorry. The amount has been transferred. Point four: You said about university writings.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u182	...(Don't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u183	Mrs. Jufi, please, no dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u184	Allow me. You are forcing us, Mrs. Jufi, while in 2017 you only paid 33 million euros of the 60s that we had to pay for university writings and we come to pay yours broken. A little self-esteem wouldn't hurt. Fifth point: You said about university funding. For our plan, which says that at last, objective criteria, number of students, geographical distribution of an institution and rating criteria, quality criteria. What do you think? "No, we prefer SYRIZA's system, where the Minister of Education decided to give customers, privileged to specific universities, to state grants." That's what you prefer, Mrs. Jufi, since you don't agree with that. And, of course, I am very interested to hear that you are voting against the budget, so to understand the people who are listening to us, you are voting against 113 million euros for education and SYRIZA is voting against, listen - listen, ten thousand recruitments of permanent appointments for education. The masks are down!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-three students and students and an educational attendant from the 1st High School of Arcadias (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] With Mr. Stylion and beautiful Arta, the fifteenth cycle will begin. I mention that Mrs. Skoufa will then speak from SYRIZA, Mr. Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, Mr. Chrysomalis from New Democracy, Mr. Spirtzis, Mr. Kastaniotis, Mrs. Sultana Eleftheriadou, Mrs. Ahtsoglou, Mr. Liutas and Mr. Xanthos. It's the 15th cycle. I should also like to point out that at 3 p.m. the Minister of State, Mr. Kyriakos Pierracakis, has asked to speak. Mr. Stylus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the differences in this year's budget in relation to the previous ones? For the first time, there is an attempt not to lose 1 euro, there is an attempt to absorb all the resources and not to have any phenomena of its implementation. The money that was wasted every year due to under-utilisation is estimated to reach 2,5 to 2.7 billion euros in previous budgets, which could go to the market and have a multiplier effect on the economy and growth. It is also worth noting that there are criteria for assessing the ministries in relation to the absorption of money from this year's budget. In other words, there is a central effort to assess the course of implementation of the budget. Finally, it should be noted that this year's budget is a continuation of the entire government's effort to raise and recover the country into a liberalized reasonable tax reduction. We started in the summer with the law on ENVIA and the hundred and twenty doses. It followed the development bill on simplifying licensing, providing incentives, unblocking large and emblematic investments. We then recently had the draft law on the liberalisation of the energy market for the new PPC, a major reform. Just a few days ago, we had the new tax bill and then followed the bank bill, the HERAKLIS plan for reducing red loans and liberalising the market liquidity. And we are now continuing with the 2020 budget. We therefore have a comprehensive, coherent plan, a realistic plan for the recovery of the Greek economy. We have cleared the terms, the conditions for next year's follow-up and this has been cleared up to everyone, to businesses, to citizens, to the state, to investors. We have a clear liberal policy, a policy to strengthen the competitiveness of the Greek economy, to reduce bureaucracy and state intervention, to reduce taxes, to increase economic freedom, to liberate the creative forces of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, with the new budget we have a new philosophy, a new framework for Greece, a new framework for the continent, a new framework for Arta, a new production model that emphasises the small and medium-sized enterprises, pays particular attention to small and medium-sized rural enterprises, the processing of new quality products. To achieve this is needed collectively, collaboratively, sectorally, and groupings are needed. We have a connection between the agri-food sector and tourism. So we have a change, for example, from the recycling of misery to creativity in a clear direction, specialization and the production of wealth for many. We have a country that wants to leave the past behind, the passions of populism and endless conflict, a people who no longer have delusion, who expects specific acts of the political system for his future, which requires dignity here and now in all the manifestations of public life, which calls for the credibility of the country everywhere and abroad and internally. Ladies and gentlemen, policies do not apply to sterile environments, do not apply to a test tube. They apply to societies, peoples with experiences and attitudes. We have an environment unstable and unpredictable. Developments in Greek-Turkish give rise to concern and insecurity. Immigration - refugee divides local communities. The international economy faces challenges. Europe cannot find its pace by trying to balance two boats many times. Brexit is a reality and creates dissolutionist tendencies. In this context we are called upon to function Ladies and gentlemen, I have often spoken from this Step and I have referred to a multipolar Greece, to a Greece that emphasises the Greek region which highlights the comparative advantages of each region, such as our islands with tourism, mainland Greece, the pioneer continent in the primary sector with special biodiversity. My special homeland, Arta, also contributes to this effort and can contribute and expect much from the government. It has all these features that can make it pioneering and create separate products with its particular crops and advantages, but with works targeted, such as the elevations in the Arta plain, where the necessary studies must quickly run and those that are ready, with the university, which must be upgraded, with research teams seeking to link production to research, with the highlighting of the historical and cultural heritage of the Arta Prefecture, where it must be demonstrated to increase the area's visitability, with the need to strengthen and support road infrastructures, such as easy access to the campus and mountainous areas of Arta and the western Tzoummerikos on the Ionian Road and the exit to Ennaia, with the completion of the enclavement and the settlement of Arachthos' bed, in order to solve a chronic problem that concerns the city of Arta. Ladies and gentlemen, all of us must work in this direction. We must move on with realism, with a programme, with coordinate timetables, with measurable work, effectively, to change the daily lives of the citizen. Our 'all' is about the government, the Ministers, the State Secretarys, the state officials, and it also concerns us MPs who support this government. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget serves our plan for the next day. It has a positive social sign, it is expected to work multiplierly for the Greek economy and society, giving opportunities and opportunities for many to build a better future for our children, a better future for our homeland. I support and vote in favour of this year's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, too. Mrs Elisabeth Scoofa has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u188	The budget you are tabling, Mr President and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is, of course, neither genuinely globally nor of course socially just, unless you consider the development of further giantization of oversized multinationals - on the basis of the colostrum - and the removal of the domestic small and medium-sized ones. With this model, however, neither we as SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance nor the great majority of the Greek people agree. Your budget is based on oversimplification of forecasts in relation to key sizes and key indicators, such as the increase in private consumption from 0.6% this year to 1.8% in 2020, and at a time when Greek households are charged with an extra EUR 323 million in income taxes and EUR 84 million in real estate taxes. There will therefore be no more income available and private consumption will therefore not increase from these social strata. Indeed, the Greek Finance Council in its special annual report summarises and notes that the most important factor, which could have a catalytic effect on the growth of private consumption, is credit expansion, namely lending from the banks. Now, whether you consider the loan to the banks to be developmental, and whether it needs to be clearly discussed and clarified. There is also provision for an growth rate of 2.8% and an increase in GDP. Another optimistic prediction that if he's licking... I will refer to this point in the above-mentioned annual report of the Greek Financial Council, which notes: "The forecast by the Ministry of Finance for GDP growth is within the range of its economic forecasts, but with constant oil prices and without the impact of Brexit". In Britain we had elections. Conservative Johnson prevailed. Let's move on to Brexit, the effects of which will be called on the people of the Member States of the European Union and, of course, the Greeks and Greeks. This Brexit event, in any case, engulfs in turn whatever unstable certainty your over-estimating forecasts can have for GDP growth, etc. In any case, we wish the best. However, in a country's applied policy and governance, governments must do and implement, not just wish. Obviously, you only mean growth through the hyper-privatisations and, indeed, without overall national planning and in the form of a fast track. That is why in your budget we find the most aggressive year-on-year deprivation plan from TEAD, with a total revenue of 2,45 billion. There is also provision for an increase in investment by 13.4%. You are obviously referring to large investments and large-scale investment. Is that exactly what it is about the wider social majority? You are telling us that these large investments will also bring more jobs. But what kind of jobs is the major issue? When will these jobs be created and, of course, with what wages? With the wages you have introduced into your bill of development and which you have actually foreseen exceptions to exceptions even from sectoral labour contracts? With regard to the tax forecasts, you are costing a reduction in the corporate tax to 550 million. Very good. However, from these 450 million reductions, that is, 80% of the relief will be granted to only six thousand enterprises, that is, 2.5% of all Greek businesses. Is this also support for the development and reduction of medium and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the backbone of the Greek economy? I will also mention the sum of EUR 557 million over-ambitiously provided for in the budget, by extending the measure of electronic means of payment. However, once again the Greek Financial Council notes that this measure, like your provision for an extension of the tax base, is characterised by a high degree of uncertainty and it is unclear how and, above all, what you mean by this extension of the tax base. So we have again ambiguity and uncertainty, like the one you condemned when you were in the opposition. With regard to the social state and the well-advertised allowance for each newborn at EUR 2 000, you claim that you will cover 90% of the 2020 births. However, as soon as 2018 the new births were eighty-six thousand four hundred forty, which means that with these 123 million euros that you budget for this allowance, you will be able to cover only 71% of the families. A communiqué bubble once again and a deception against families living in the country. Of course, the super "chef" lies in the other social benefits. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, because there has been a huge dialogue with regard to the importance of social benefits, we have to decide: Or the state is obliged to the Greek taxpayers to support our financially or socially weak fellow citizens, or we will hand over the AMEs and the elderly to the life expectancy, not to say anything worse. So you are cutting off 173 million from the pre-novative benefits for LEIs, 139 million from family allowances, 51 million from the rental allowance and, as previous colleague said, 4 million euros from the benefits for uninsured over-ages. I would like to ask you, because it is not clear about the budget, is this EUR 4 million cut also pertaining to our Northcontinental counterparts? Is it also about uninsured over-ages who don't have a home in their name? We expect to see the follow-up and, above all, we expect clear and clear answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u189	And I'm waiting for you to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u190	I'm done. I would like to finish, although there are too many very black points in the budget. Let me say that you have the nerve to cut off from the OAU EUR 50 million. This means that, in the new year, there will be even fewer programmes for the unemployed and, of course, there will be no continuation. You deceived workers in the public-private programmes of forest protection, reception and matching centres and, of course, the four thousand unemployed young scientists who, with a SYRIZA programme, have been working for a year in public positions, which really needed. So your budget, ladies and gentlemen, is neither developmental nor social. It concerns the few, you support them, which is why we are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order. A Member may speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u193	He didn't say anything about you. I didn't hear anything. The parliamentary representative speaks of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u194	I can speak on a point of order. They keep talking more by nine to ten minutes all SYRIZA Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u195	No, it's not like that. It's not like that. Everybody! In one hour I'm here, I'm aware that you're going over your time by two to three minutes. I can go on the other hand, but I will be strict for the whole year. You should know that. I will tell you something, to keep it in mind: 'If we don't die for each other, we're all dead.' It will not be paid for by the Bureau, the next one will pay it, by your colleagues. I'd like to inform you that at 15:30, Mr. Chakalotos asked to speak. At 15:30, Mr. Gregorydis wants to talk, but I'm gonna ask him to go a little further. Thank you very much. Mr. Kyriakos Pierracakis, Minister of State, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the drafting, tabling and voting of a budget is a top parliamentary and governmental process and this is because the content of a budget reflects, on the one hand, the national treaty, the budgetary possibilities of the state, the macroeconomic prospects and, on the other, it conceals political priorities of the government. Behind the numbers we hide perceptions and designs, behind the graphs hide beliefs and policies. The text of this budget in this light follows in the last few months and crystallises the expectations that have been born as a result of a very detailed and well-designed plan, a very well-prepared plan. Expectations that are initially reflected in the degression in the interest rates of the ten-year government bond from 3.9% of March to 1.5% of October, the successful issues of fixed rate bonds, the improvement of the country's credit rating by the "STANDARD & POOR"S. And, of course, it is certain that the lifting of capital controls, capital controls, together with the HARAKLIS project, enables the country to signal a clear change of page. Ladies and gentlemen, a well-known saying says: 'Don't tell me what you think, show me your budget and I'll tell you what you think.' Here we have a dominant change of philosophy in the budget text, initially visible from dealing with so-called surpluses. In previous years a restrictive policy was pursued beyond that agreed with lenders in both 2016 and 2017 and 2018. The creation of these overcrowdings has de facto impacted on the country's development performance. The change we make in economic policy starts with the degression of taxes, as shown by HISPIA and the corporate tax, and contributes significantly to the 2.8% growth forecast for 2020, which is almost double the European average. In view of this, it is clear that we do not have an austerity burden-sharing budget in our hands but a budget to create well-being, a budget to change a page. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to comment briefly on the priorities of the Ministry of Digital Governance for the next year and on the text of the budget, in the light of what has been achieved during the first five months of the new government. First of all, we have come across a coherent vision of the digital transformation of the state and the economy. We have created a new Ministry of Digital Governance, with new responsibilities from those that the old Ministry of Digital Policy had. The emphasis is now on simplifying procedures, on interoperability, on the new relationship between the citizen and the State, with an emphasis on technology as an instrument, not as an end in itself and with a clear objective of convergence with the European Union's average. It is assumed that the creation of the new institutional infrastructure for the Ministry, with two interventions, with Law 4623 and Law 4635 of 2019, created new possibilities in this Ministry, a new institutional infrastructure. For example, I mention the new framework for interoperability in Law 4623, which now allows us to interconnect the registers, create the gov.gr, establish the gov.gr as a single digital portal for public services for citizens - I will speak in the course of it -, create the national simplification programme, simplify the authorisation procedure for mobile telephony antennas - this was a necessary treaty so that we can get through to the age of the fifth generation networks, given that a large part of the antennas were not licensed. In addition to this, we established the new National Government Security Authority, created the single digital institutional maps - the project will be launched in 2020 - and of course we proceeded with a ministerial decision on the definition of FEBY, the so-called key service operators, that is, for the first time in the country what constitutes a critical infrastructure, a necessary treaty so that we can create a coherent framework for cybersecurity. With the necessary institutional tools now, it is time to move on to a series of technical and additional legislative initiatives. I am referring in particular to the following: Firstly, we are planning and soon putting the gov.gr into operation. We have said that this will take place in the first half of next year. The implementation of the platform is under way, the first version of the portal is already ready internally, and our aim is first there to pass all the services of the Greek State, which are already available digitally - these are hundreds - and add two new ones. The authorisation and the responsible statement. As we have said many times, the prospect is that there will eventually be almost all the services that can be digitised through a single portal. Our aim is, in its final version of course, that gov.gr does not issue certificates, but that, in the end, services can search themselves for the available data for citizens and thus exchange information rather than papers. Secondly, a citizens' identification strategy. This is where we've taken multiple steps. First of all, the competition for new identities, as we committed ourselves, is a matter of days and will be immediately announced by the Ministry of Civil Protection. But, beyond that, the recognition of citizens is a wider strategy. There is one European directive on this subject, the eIDAS directive, which we must now start to apply seriously in our country, so that we can give access to these digital services to the citizens, and in this respect we have already said that, firstly, we will be generally using the taxisnet codes so that people can have access to the services and we will add to it the banking codes, as provided for, that is, in many other countries in Europe, and as the European directive in question provides, so that citizens can have multiple means of identification. This strategy is part of the creation of a single number for citizens, a number that will replace the VRM, the AMMK, the multiple numbers and will now also appear in the new identities when they are issued. Thirdly, applying the 'only once' principle, we are simplifying procedures with regard to the so-called 'living events'. At the beginning of next year we will have a relevant legislative initiative, which will simplify the interaction of citizens and businesses with the state. At the same time, we have already carried out multiple interoperables, which are doing just this job. We have already connected the Civil Registry of the Ministry of Interior with the taxes, with the AIA's Registry. It is no longer necessary for citizens to go to tax, for example, to declare a marriage or a divorce. This update is made automatically from the registries. Today we are able to announce that, with the new year, tax information will begin to become available to all public bodies. So, with every service now starting to draw the information service digitally, we will make it easier for citizens and businesses to use unnecessary bureaucracy. Thirdly, we have had many years now - it has happened to mention it several times - pending the opening of specific major IT projects. The system of intra-operational planning of the Greek State, the ERP, has not yet been auctioned. The Greek government's human resource management system, the HRMS, and the same. So is the civil service system. What we encode as gov.gr had previously been codified as CRMS. There are many other systems still pending the auction, such as teleconferencing systems in justice, integrated information systems relating to justice and many other systems. It is known that the Ministry of Digital Governance has passed the management and implementation of specific codes of the operational programmes of the NRP, which are related to technology and IT, amounting to EUR 738 million. So the tendering of the projects I mentioned and even additional projects begins with the new year. The first auctions will be able to start at the end of January and it is certain that we will move too quickly so that we can now have these systems in our hands with several years' delay. Fourthly, we emphasise the areas of telecommunications networks. We have completed the stage of expression of interest in the competitive dialogue at the ultra fast broadband, and we have already said that we will also be conducting the 5G spectrum auction at the end of 2020. All this is treated particularly positively by the institutions. We had recently, a month ago, a relevant report, the european economic institution papers. He referred positively to the effects and prospects of the government's digital agenda as a whole on the country's economic prospects. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is a given that, with these initiatives and with a much wider framework of initiatives that we have taken in recent months, the Ministry of Digital Governance can support and support in practice all the budget strategies that are necessary for its beneficial implementation. We are already attracting investment in IT and telecommunications. In fact, at the beginning of next year, we will be able to start some communications on this subject. Our aim remains to drastically reduce bureaucracy. This, according to studies, absorbs 6.8% of our GDP, and the aim is to reduce it considerably, so that we can give the citizens money back from the lost time and effort of bureaucracy. I'm closing up with this. This budget is a roadmap, a roadmap for a future that incorporates our values and expectations. It took the collective effort of an entire people to get out of an existential ten-year crisis. In the last ten years we have seen in all corners of the country the power, strength and endurance of the Greeks. We will need another type of collective effort to put the country in the orbit that she deserves, not just to overcome the gap that has taken place over the last ten years, but to overcome it, to rebuild a state for the 21st century and not for the 20th. This budget is an important step in this direction, and that is why I call on you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much. Mr Miltiades Chryssomalis has the floor from New Democracy and the beautiful Messinia.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is my first presence as a Member of Parliament in a budget, a feeling strange, and that is because you expect them otherwise, otherwise you think it is the crucial debates when you are out of Parliament and experience them. I must admit I've been rather surprised. That is because I believe that this is the only debate that could be fully productive, as we are actually talking about on the basis of undeniable figures. Finally, for days I have been following a very theoretical debate with an absolute responsibility for counter-population. Let me keep an eye on her mind. SYRIZA, who was for four and a half years at the wheel of the country, after the July elections, is tabling a political reason why he is trying to convince us that the Greek people were badly tanned to four successive elections. In simple terms, he tells us that everything that has happened in his day was perfect, that all the positive signs of the Greek economy are due to the SYRIZA Government and all the negative ones to the very few months of the New Democracy Government, that a disastrous throat has already occurred due to the ideals of neoliberalism that our extreme right government has allegedly applied. Really? Do you believe that? And you think he hears them or believes them in society? [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is not how we debate it. So let's say truths. Is everything all right in the place? Of course not. Our homeland has entered the vortex for ten years, focusing on the economy. Is anyone questioning it? Oh, no. In these ten years, were there attempts to raise? Of course, yes. The Greek people acknowledge that Greece remained in the euro zone thanks to the titanic work of the Samara - Venizelos government. The then government achieved what the international press called "Grecovery", the outline "success story" that was so obscured by today's Civic Opposition. Between us, let us be honest now. Did Greece pay the fall of this government? Of course, yes. Some of you admit it publicly now. Did Greece pay the negotiation regular for the first half of 2015? Of course he did. Did we get into an unnecessarily third memorandum of this SYRIZA policy? Of course we're in. Anyone deny it today? Of course not. I guess that's as far as we're concerned. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] We're coming to today. Let's go back to truth. Since 2015, SYRIZA has reversed the mixture of economic policy Samaras that consisted of reducing taxes. Has SYRIZA's economic policy achieved its purpose by increasing taxes? Apparently not. Why did he do it? SYRIZA himself has answered that he is at the heart of the thinking of the Left, the Marxists and the neomarxists, the tooling of fiscal policy with a social footprint. The class approach remains a dominant doctrine on the Left and the New Left, even in times when determining order is much more complex than in the past. After all, Mr Chakalotos has gladly admitted that the middle class had deliberately targeted himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u199	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u200	On the contrary, Kyriakos Mitsotakis has already been elected President of the New Democracy since 2016, but also since 2019, who took over the country's helium, made another analysis different and serves it consistently and unequivocally. The dominant position of our economic policy is the gradual reduction of taxation, but not as a tool or a dogma, but as a means of allowing the greater economic freedom of households and businesses, which leads to more, greater economic activity and that in turn leads to greater wealth. This is the essential difference between the historical left and the historical right, in the arrest of the individual, social and national situation. Essentially, wealth as a concept and distribution are our basic ideological difference. The Left fails to answer how wealth is produced. It gives particular weight to its distribution but not to its production. The old, however, Marxist view of the central planning of the economy and the prohibition of individual property has collapsed in practice. Even China's special model is not based on the left-wing view of the economy. It has been shown that the left economic policy leads to a redistribution of poverty, contrary to the free market policy leading to prosperity, better quality of life for individuals, societies and states, and also to class mobility. The 2020 budget is therefore based in the first phase on a sincere attempt to reverse the trend of the Greek economy by redistributing the balances of poverty, the effort to produce new wealth, with targeted tax reliefs, with an effort to attract investment, with new privatisations. It is therefore attempting to create that economic climate which will allow an increase in economic activity to create new wealth. The first steps have already been taken. The beneficial shock in the first few months has led to a rapid improvement in the economic climate. Unmistakable witness is the course of the Greek bond and of the occupants. At the same time, our Government has committed itself to renegotiation the objective of the surplus in order to reduce it. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest. Did Greece come out of the crisis? Obviously not, much more so because the global economic environment is complex and paradoxical and even more so when Europe is burning, the Balkans are shaken, our neighbourhood is shaking. Let us be realistic, honest with each other and, above all, with society. Did Greece come out of the memos? Of course not. The loan contract is over, but the commitments remain until 2060. You brought them, gentlemen of counterpopulation. The margins for autonomous policy are yes, although more than 2017, but remain very limited. How will they grow? Evidently, through the achievement of the objectives so that the expansion of our economic autonomy can be attempted, of course, in the context of the international alliances that we have concluded, as well as they are respected in this strange European Union, with the contradictions and conflicts within its walls. Because a lot sounds, I personally want to be clear. A series of election results in the free Western world show a powerful flow of patriotism against political correctness, against internationalism, against the same coloured societies. Let them take this into account, all of them without exception. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, and looking at you in the eye, I would like to ask you this: is this budget which will allow the Greeks to feel that we are going back to our lost prosperity? Honestly, I certainly do not. With the same honesty, however, I tell you that it is this budget that will make the Greeks feel that it delights, that the dawn is coming. Do you have a problem on the left with dawn? I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u201	No dialogue, please. Say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u203	Be well. Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos, the Parliamentary Representative from SYRIZA, has the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] A little quiet, please, so everyone can hear, but also listen to those who see their turn. After Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Spirtzis will then speak, then Mr. Katsaniotis from New Democracy, then Mr. Loverdos, the Parliamentary Representative from the Change Movement. Mrs. Sultana Eleftheriadou, Mrs. Ahtsoglou, and then Mr. Gregoriadis will be followed by Merra25. I wish, Mr Gregoriadis, that we do not have a change. Thank you very much for the change in the programme. Here, Mr. Chakalote, you have twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u204	At least, I hope.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u205	It's too much. It's too much for you. I trust you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u206	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget would be an opportunity to talk about all economic and economic policy issues and to see the great picture. I want to start with the big picture, because the budget can tell us that there are some risks to worsen international conditions - Brexit, Trump - but it does not tell us anything about what this framework of international markets and economies and where it came from. It does not say anything, because everywhere in Europe and in America we have a fall in investment over the past thirty years. It tells us nothing because in the past twenty years, and after the crisis, we have had poor results in growth and in the forecasts for growth. It tells us nothing because we have been stagnating in real wages and productivity over the past ten years. I will now present it to you - not to spoil it now - so that you too, Minister and you of the Coupling, can see four drafts. One concerns the formation of fixed capital. Except I've been showing it, there's been a downward trend over the last thirty years. You will see that the same applies to growth. I will give you two more tables which show both the countries of the European Union and the world the poor results of productivity and wages. With what policies do we have these results? The Syrian Maduroi ruled in the European Union and in America, and we have these poor results? And why do we expect that in Greece with the same policies we will have different results? But now we're going to your answers. How do you respond to investments and productivity? By reducing taxes. What Trump did, what all right-wing governments do. First of all, as far as the non-market sector is concerned, I do not believe that the tax plays a major role in the services. There it depends more on the available income, something you have not shocked about! In the market sector, it depends much more on tax, public investment, worker training and planning. Let me tell you something else to widen the debate. We have criticised you for the tax exemptions that go only to some businesses. What is your view of the prevailing policy, of the QE? I accept that the situation is better with the QE than it would be without the QE. But are you not telling me that it is not time to say that the non-target tax reductions or the QE that was for all companies did not work and where it led? And it explains low productivity and low investment. Let's look at it, why did all that money go to repo transactions, merges, the financial system, and they didn't go to the real economy? Should we again see that if we really want to increase productivity and investment, we must give tax relief and concrete measures to innovative enterprises? If we are concerned with green growth and tackling the climate crisis, should we think about not going to all businesses but to businesses that take the climate crisis seriously and want to tackle it? Should we, in other words, come back to the idea of industrial policy that was abandoned in the era of neoliberalism and have the results I have told you? And drops in investments, 3% -4% are net investments that are new capital rather than supplementing the spent old capital. Can we look at this again? How do you respond to wage stagnation? By limiting the collective agreements? By limiting the increase in minimum wages? Here Mrs Ahtsioglou was kind enough to give me another table - which I will also present - which shows that in your time the average wage fell and increased a little - and not at a positive rate, was only positive when the collective agreements were back and there was expansion in important areas. And don't tell me we're only dealing with low-paid people. Do not invest in social automation, because what we have in the past twenty years is that if you don't put a floor on minimum wages and wages of the lowest paid workers, it affects all scales upwards. Read the ILO report on Germany and how the middle class is defined that directly says it is impact and the wage stagnation in the lower scales. How are you going to deal with wage stagnation and wage growth, you estimate the 2.8% growth that does not show that it will be done? And how are you going to deal with regional inequalities? With general tax exemptions? Have you realised that in all countries there are development poles and there are big problems if you're not on a development polo in some big city? Look at the British elections, look at the French elections, look at the figures for the Greek regions. How will this be dealt with? With general tax relief? We are now going to social inequality. I don't have a picture of social inequalities in the past twenty years because we've told it so many times. The evidence is so overwhelming for both wealth and income and for access to social goods, which we no longer need to prove. The whole world says that the main problem in Western societies is great inequality. And how do you deal with this? Are you dealing with it by giving EUR 50-60 to the lowest quarter, the poorest, 10% to the available income tax and the five hundred to seven hundred to the richest? Is that going to deal with it? Is the inequality of access to goods being tackled when, in the 1.2 billion available, 10% goes to spending and 90% to taxes? Mr Stavros has announced a small improvement in the years to come, that they will be 20% and 80% respectively. Will you tell us whether Andreas Blonde was wrong to achieve health expenditure at 7%, which is the European Union's average? I'm not saying Sweden, I'm not saying Germany, I'm saying the average. Is it not possible, unrealistic, that this objective should be reached there, that we too should be able to have a health system worthy of our citizens? Unfortunately, Mr. Skokakakis a moment ago - because man is beloved but neoliberal until medulli - said the following sentence: "We Greeks" - said two hours ago - "we have not survived as a nation because we have received benefits". Therefore, we do not need housing allowances, education allowances for children, allowances to be able to stand by the social state! Neither did ETUC, nor did ETUC believe in allowances. But he had the authoritarianism that this authoritarianism we see returns. Since we cannot economically incorporate the pieces of middle and popular strata, we give authoritarianism. And Mrs. Pappiga isn't right. We have often denounced authoritarianism, not only in the rights and police and in the demonstrations but also against workers. And anyway, if you want to get over with the benefits, I suggest you keep an allowance or create an allowance for the recovery of the rebetiko song. At least since they will not receive allowances, the people of the people and of the middle classes can sing as they used to sing for the bitterness, for the meddling and for the suffering! There you will become the middle class and the world of work. Ladies and gentlemen, a budget is not just about the available income as important as it is to be the available income. A budget must respond to the general prosperity of the world and especially of the world of work. We have to deal with productivity stagnation. They must respond to the growth stagnation in regional disparities. They must respond to the state of public and social services. They must respond to the shift in the economy to a green growth. In all this, really, you have nothing to say. It is a budget that is fully coordinated with those policies that have reached European and developed economies in the situation that is currently in place. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard many speeches from both the JRC and Mera25 and from the Change Movement. I tell you with all honesty, when we face this government not only in economics, not only in social rights but also in rights, we will run out of the two - three years of opposition for who will get the largest part of the pie? Is that what we are going to tell the people who will see the consequences of this economic policy? That it doesn't matter if it's SYRIZA or New Democracy? Doesn't it make any difference that we got the 700 million of welfare, and we got it to 3 billion? To the workers at the hotels where their expansion gave them breath but others will you say that it doesn't matter? Is that what we're gonna say? That's where we're gonna run out of all our political analysis? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute, Mr President. Or are we going to create together, where we agree, social resistance to both rights and to the workplace and to green development, to create a strong force to prevent this strategy, which we know in advance will not work? You might deny it. But the world of work will not forgive us, neither you nor us. And I'm afraid that if we don't cooperate where we can, the profit will be taken by the far right inside and outside the New Democracy. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Echokris Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You heard the previous speaker. I hope that you have heard him, because patriotism, non-cosmopolitanism - something this word tells me, non-cosmopolitan - has a history of this word - national policy, that is where we will leave it or have an optimism, and we will tell the world of work that there is hope and there is hope in the future of having budgets that respond to the social, economic and the rights of the people of work and the world that we all want to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, too, for respect for time.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u208	I would like to speak for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Dogman, I had noted it. Because you've already spoken, you have a minute. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u210	And less, Mr President. I was, I was, I'm, and I'm gonna be liberal. I do not think there is anyone in this Chamber who doubts. I've paid for that, whenever it took 30 years. In essence I was surprised that Mr Tsakalotos spoke, with great diligentness and interest, on the issues of which we must direct investment, but he failed to say that the country's main problem is that he does not have investments. We were fourth in 2018, at the end, at the bottom, in the world, we are last in Europe. Therefore, when you are in this situation, you must use very powerful weapons of investment mobilisation, a massive tax exemption, an attempt to mobilise investments in every way, because investments - not benefits - will save us. Again, Greece survived as a nation because it created wealth. Benefits do not create wealth. It is necessary, but not sufficient, to change a country's course.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, I would like the floor because the Minister referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u212	You have the floor for thirty seconds, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u213	I would like to remind Mr. Skolakakis that Noam Chomsky's saying that the main element of neoliberalism is that it is neither new nor liberal. You're on a party that you think you're liberal, and you didn't even have the courtesy to support the marriage coexistence of the couples of couples, about what liberalism are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u214	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u215	You know what happened to the police yesterday? Is that liberal? But I want to say something about economic policy. What did Mr. Scully say to us? That what I said about the low investment in the world economy, productivity, growth, but we are even worse. Can Mr. Skylakakis explain from a more economic theorem that failed policies, in rich economies, only become successful policies because they are in fewer wealthy economies? There is no such theorem, because everywhere these elements are both for rich economies and for less rich economies and even less rich economies. You have always failed, despite all thirty years, the lack of liberalism and new, to beat us.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u216	Thank you very much, Mr Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u217	I would like to say a sentence, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u218	Don't have a dialogue, Mr. Dog. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u219	Unsuccessful policies in small economies can nonetheless be changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u220	Parliamentary spokesman from New Democracy and Panagiotis Lebanon has the floor. Then you want the floor, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u221	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u222	Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. That is precisely because we are a politically liberal party, when you have raised the issue, we have left, the leadership, the MPs free, and that will say political liberalism, Mr Tsakalote, not give a line and vote for what the Chief says and be persuasive instruments. We let our Members stand free to express their will with their vote in the House. This is the political liberalism of Mr. Dogakakis and of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u224	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u225	With regard to what you said, you will allow me - you know that I have a special appreciation and sympathy and I see that you are increasing your influence on the parliamentary group, which means that something good you have been doing there - but what I am also enjoying - is that you are in a time libo - which you like - both you and your resignation - because you cannot yet understand that it has been four and a half years that you have been ruling this time, so when you come to this Chamber to criticise the next ones who came because they won the elections that you lost, you must first of all - and with your criticism of welcome and I have found a point where we agree - you should say: First, what did you do? So apologize to us and the Greek people, mostly. And secondly, suggest solutions. So, as far as our main difference is concerned, and I think it is useful to go to society too, what do we say? That we believe that in a country, as Mr Skokakis said, there are no investments, there must be growth, wealth created - we are not afraid of that word - we want to create wealth so that we can then have a social policy and a social state, otherwise you create a social state with the people in debt and countries collapse, as all the countries, who have embraced communism and the Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u226	Last, Mr. Levane.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u227	Yeah. In what you said, if you are looking to find neoliberal enemies in ERA with your pleasure, we have nothing to do with that logic of neoliberalism. But I agree with you that we need to find specific areas where we need to invest and possibly tax and push our economy forward. You're right about that. But at some point I wanted the next speakers to tell us what exactly you mean when you refer to the criticism you are making to us? You don't want to do tax exemptions? Is that why you did not vote for the tax bill that creates opportunities around the world, giving tax exemptions to all Greek citizens? And the second one. You said that we are strengthening regional disparities or, at any rate, we are not closing disparities with our policy. With what policy and what are the results of your own policy, which brought regional economies to convergence in Greece, or in any case, the Left brought them to the world somewhere? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, too. Mr Loverdos, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, has the floor. You have the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u229	Mr President, I have been following the debate all these days and there is a great deal of mention in the middle strata. The reason for this, of course, is, at the budgetary point, that it concerns the government rather than the opposition. Allow me to say to the Secretary-General that at the last meeting of the Standing Committee - I will include it in my speech - I asked for an explanation why, from the viewers - certainly, and from any reasonable person - medium-sized strata with an income of more than EUR 20,000 and up to EUR 30 000, the favourable rules in this budget are zero. That's why he owes an explanation. It's not the input to explain it. The explanation should be straight on the basis of the data. I hear, of course, also the Members of the Officerial Response to memorialize the government to strike the middle classes. I wonder whether the former Deputy Minister, Mr Juliarakis, who made reference to the policies which have been struck by his government in the middle classes - if I am not wrong, am I wrong to apologise - to the former Minister of Finance, which you mentioned, in your own policies, against the middle classes, all of this has been forgotten, because we are going through the government in opposition? Oh, no. The question is what can be done about them. What can be done is politics and nothing else. As for what he said, there is no need for a programme for the learning and dissemination of the rebetiko to sing these songs and the middle layers, Mr Tsakaloto. You taught them to sing "Communion guilty" and sang it well for four years. But let's get serious!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u231	Previously, three Memorandums were brought to the people and have literally smacked the people and now they are struggling about who will save them. Definitely, Argits. Which one of the saviors will save us? Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much. We are now entering the fifteenth circle of speakers. Mr. Spirjis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u233	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with something I have heard now from the representatives of the New Democracy. If you produce so much wealth with your neoliberal policy...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u234	We'll produce it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u235	Yeah. If you will produce for the year, why are you predicting an increase of 2.8% rather than 4% for 2020? We are therefore discussing, ladies and gentlemen, six months after the elections, the first budget with a New Democracy Government and have already emerged not only the lies we have heard for four and a half years, but also the false promises of the New Democracy have emerged, although, ladies and gentlemen, you have the only privilege over all the Greek governments of all time to find full funds, to find 37 billion, unlike in 2015 that we were looking for euros to pay wages and pensions and there was a society in despair. I understand that you want to forget what Greek society was like in 2015, but I do not understand that you have suffered amnesia for the last six months, about what you said before the elections and what you were saying in the first days you were government. So what did you forget? You forgot middle class. In fact, you are attempting to change its definition. It has forgotten one to five that after the elections, it has been overturned by your ministers, but there has been no opening of a competition, a call for recruitment for critical social needs. You're making it backwards. Remove notices in progress via ASP and institutionalise exceptional recruitment everywhere. You've done one to five that you said zero to five, not what you say you'll meet for social needs. The New Democracy's criticism of posters has been forgotten. We will not pluralize, Mr Psilakakis, for what we have heard for four and a half years, neither for relatives nor for supposedly recruiting poster. But we'll show you your old-fashioned communism. You've increased the pay of the retired. We would like to ask you to tell us what payroll code you will pay the salaries of the six hundred staff and poster of the government's presidency. You predicted 31 million for the presidency of the government instead of 8.9 that existed before. What have you calculated at 31 million? You're the only ones who know that. The ERT, the RES, the bodies you have transferred to the Prime Minister? Instead of a budget that clearly shows its costs, you are hiding the costs of your old-fashioned society. You pay tens of millions of dollars for the army of the state that is setting up your aggressive party state, playing hidden in the budget. The excellence and excellence have forgotten the increased qualifications of the excellence, after you have even abolished the degree to the poster and critical positions of the state. You have forgotten the incompatibilities. You abolished that, too. First in six months? The commanders of hospitals, the technocratic ministers without a degree, the abolition of the notices of the Secretary-General, the abolition of the independent authorities? You've increased the pay of the retired. You said we had a fourth memorandum. Put it in the report. You're not writing it. You have forgotten, as always, the national plan which the Right has never had for the country and for the healthy productive forces. Growth was forgotten not 4% but growth in general. The Greek in a week will have bulldozers. It's been six months and you can't complete a competition. In infrastructure projects you cancel one contest after another, and you reserve to tell us the unexistent plan you have six months later. Refuse the national strategic plan for transport with absolutely nothing. In ongoing projects, even those relating to natural disaster restoration have folded and stay unpaid. It's a memorial tomb. You have forgotten even the five flagship works mentioned by the Prime Minister. Where are those archaeological museums with Metsovio, Corydalus prisons and everything else? These go too. A short time ago the Minister of Culture announced cynically the decision of the KAS meeting tomorrow to remove the ancients from Venizelos station in Thessaloniki, ignoring both the scientific community and the decisions of the same institution in 2017. This is a typical example of New Democracy's non-respect to state institutions and their independence. I also heard the Minister for Digital Policy. I wish he could do that, we wish, but because we don't forget the first days and what you said, what happened to that 112 you texted us? Will it ever work out? What about that terrible work you emptyd the plot in Matty and made another one on an illegal plot in Matty at the Navy? What has happened for six months with the joint ministerial decisions of the natural disasters you have not made anywhere, either in Thassos or in Halkidiki or anywhere? What haven't you forgotten? You did not forget your "old sieve" art, services, exceptional recruitments, 12 billion of the Greek people's 37 billion sacrifice for banks, again for banks. You established the project "HRAKLIS" for the banks and the "Lernaia Hydra" project for the Greek people. The "ERGANI" seems to reduce by fifty-six thousand jobs from the results of your policy. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute not on old-fashioned practices but on local self-government within the 'worthiness' which prevails. From 2010 to 2015 you have reduced by 63% the resources of the EBRD. You overthrowed the simple analogue in a few days, bringing chaos. You made five ongoing draft laws other changes. You want to turn the development companies of municipalities into technical services outside the European framework, creating opacity fields. You carry hundreds of millions. From 1.5 billion you go the PPP to 750 million in co-financed projects, closing the eyes to the fact that the municipalities do not have the staff to "run them". Of course, you are abolishing the "Philodimo", a genuinely development breathing program for local government - which had to see it since 2006 - with a great lie of the Minister that he found only 134 million when all the money is at the Deposit and Loan Fund and the European Bank. You want your mayors in the premaritals to beg for a traditional project, and to be good children in the perfect design of the party staff state. Even the CEDEFOP disagreed. You're not telling us about the extraordinary subsidies to the municipalities, the mountains, the islands, the rest. The Greek people, from which you draw authority, are absent from your calculations. You decide without him and at his expense. What you are doing again, as you have done in previous years, has a fundamental objective, overthrowing the rule of law, the welfare state, the social state. In closing, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of old-fashionedism, we call on you not to continue the policy of yesterday's, dogmatic neoliberalism, not to lead the country back to the adventure of the memoranda - because that is where you go - not to call again on the Greek society from the deadlocks you create again and again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, too. The Minister for Health, Mr Vassilis Kikilis, has the floor for ten minutes. Mr. Kikilia, Mr. Loverdos gave you his place to know that. You owe it to him. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u237	Minister, thank you very much for the nobleness of the act. Thank you very much, Mr President. I won't be long. Ladies and gentlemen, when we took over from the Ministry of Health I said from this very point of view that the absolute priority for us are the vulnerable groups, they are the patients, they are the people. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS VITSAS, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] Today, about five months later, I am pleased to stand before you because, indeed, in one of the most difficult and demanding ministries, that of health, the policies that we implement relieve our fellow humans and especially those who cannot or do not have. We have immediately implemented what we have committed in the run-up to. For example, oncology patients have been drawn to the tails of the EOPY pharmacies for years. I want to inform the National Representation that only in November, over nine hundred fellow citizens received their medication directly from private clinics. We donated them, without suffering for them and their relatives, and this is credited to the EEA. Since the first month of next year, in January, in a few days' time, the same will be done for patients, for oncological drugs, for multiple sclerosis in neighborhood pharmacies, against all these well-beingrs who have scattered and said that this will never be implemented. From the first day we came in to cover the medical care of the burns in Matty. These are those, ladies and gentlemen, who, unfortunately, had left the previous government at God's mercy. Immediately after we relieved our fellow citizens who needed blood products from gammaglobin and are watched or hospitalized as patients in specific clinics, without suffering, without waiting hours, without financial burden for the insured. We have created a permanent contact link between patients and the Ministry of Health and a permanent request from the associations. A last-minute news: There's been a negotiation with the company and the EOF at the moment, about the cystic fibrosis. There are our fellow citizens, our fellow humans with very serious problems from this disease. Technology runs, produces new drugs. We have to find a way to bring these together - even before their time - into the country to alleviate these fellow citizens. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has received legislative increases of up to 10% in medicines and for the last year and for the past year no drug price report. Impressive, I confess. We have legislated on the zero increase in the prices of medicinal products for 2020 and on the contrary on reductions of up to 7% for many of them. We have issued a direct drug price report which has been announced, with the total benefit of EUR 180 million for the state and the state and EUR 50 million, as calculated by the EEO from the figures of the previous year, reducing the participation of the insured and the citizens in these medicines. Directly 50m euros reduction! I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you that the previous Minister for Health with a press conference announced the issue of drug prices in the morning, which the Maximus canceled at the time, at night, and a drug price report never came out for the last year and a half, so the insurance price was the same as the retail price or export price and the state was lost and citizens were harmed. We received the ICUs of the country for the months of December, January, February and March at very high pressure, and this is because there was huge tails of our fellow people who had to wait, even by hundreds, for a bed in the ICU. With a personal campaign but also in collaboration with all medical associations, we have reached vaccination in the general population from two million to three million. They were vaccinated and shielded by a million more of our fellow humans, because we believe that prevention is higher than treatment. To prevent this and pre-contractual control, for screening, for public information, we bring early next year, at the beginning of January, a draft framework law on public health, which has to come to the National Delegation structured, sound and scientifically documented since 2005. Ladies and gentlemen, on the recruitment side, we tried to make a health card, just seeing hospitals, TOMY, health centres, on the barren lines that exist. We signed and appointed these hundred and seventy-five doctors who, in fact, had started and started the proceedings - I'm talking about the emergency cases, the TDIs at our hospitals - but also a thousand more three hundred nursing posts of nurses, injured persons, fifty crew seats of the ERC. We launched the recruitment of nine hundred and fifty permanent doctors. After many years, since 2012, we have agreed with the EEAS and signed project contracts eight hundred young doctors of all the qualifications they have obtained after 2012 in order to offer their services and a thousand five hundred qualified nurses follow. We want to introduce these people, these health professionals within the health system, into hospitals during their training. We renewed the four thousand workers in our hospitals through the OAED program. I would remind you that some people have been raped to say that an irreversible right, neoliberal government is not going to renew them. We upgraded the EMCDDA, unifying it with the EMCDDA. It was a common site for crisis management and coordination of ICU and ICU operations. We believe that TLPs should operate twenty-four hours a day and be disconnected from hospitals. We also legislation for the first time in the previous legislation of the Ministry of Health that came to Parliament the assessment of hospital governors per quarter on the basis of qualitative and quantitative objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to be clear. Evaluation and control will be continuous and continuous. We don't have taboo. Where there are failures we are here to correct them, but I would like to tell you that according to the law that we have voted on, these commanders, following a quantitative and qualitative assessment every quarter, can be made redundant, without compensation, if they have not achieved precisely those objectives which are in the public interest. For public health, I do not want to say much but that the main four diseases which produce, unfortunately, morbidity and mortality are cardiovascular diseases, neoplasms, diabetes mellitus and the SPS. The behavioural and social risks caused by smoking, non-exercise, malnutrition and alcohol are 2/3. It is a part of the public health bill that we are bringing directly to the Greek Parliament and which we need to discuss. Public health was thought of it until now, about how we deal with the Nile virus with mosquitoes and some coroners in some lost former prefectures - periphery controlled the water. In a modern state, public health, which is about prevention, pre-symptoms, etc., cannot be understood as such in a modern state. I would like to say that there has been the possibility of an integrated rebrand or an uprooting of the former ERIC, now the National Public Health Agency, which has clearly different orientations and other approaches to matters and the defence of public health. I should like to inform the National Representation - because I know that many of you are particularly sensitive to this - that we have completed all vaccinations for all children and adolescents in Moria and Lesvos, as well as in Chios and Samos. I think that this is another example of how such an organization that has occasionally been slandered over fair and unjust can take another form as I promised you here in defence of the bill and operate in favour of the public good. There is too much that has been done in the past five, six months. I'll move on to the hospitals. I will say that we received the hospitals with written statements by the governors appointed by the previous political leadership and admit that one out of two had no screening system, there was no patient electronic file. Four out of ten hospitals didn't have a safe on-call program. Hospitals had no balance sheets, broken accounts, no internal control, and, of course, clawback was launched to the god. In 2020, I announce that it will be the year of hospitals. It should be stressed that in 2019 we received a budget of 2,321,000,000, which in no case was sufficient for the hospitals to operate. We'll be in cooperation with the Treasury and the State General Accounting Office. There is a man here who, in particular, does a deplorable job, Minister Skylakakis, whom I would like to thank publicly, because there has been a very great effort to stand up to hospitals and EOPYY. We have therefore received more appropriations for 2019, reshaping the limits and frameworks, so that they can survive in order to get through our hospitals and the original budget and the appropriations for 2020 are in the order of 100 million more and possibly reach 2,461,000. In what has to do with hospital organization, I'd have a lot to say. I will simply pass it by saying, ladies and gentlemen, that it is obvious that since the time of Alekos Papadopoulos and because of the economic crisis and the restrictive budgetary policies, my predecessors did not have that possibility and I recognise it. Perhaps not to have it completely, to have it free of charge, but there will be an attempt to support the hospitals in the country and to get the animal on both live material and, of course, on their modern function. This includes our view and our conviction - and I am, as I have said many times, a guardian of free and public health - that it is another issue of state health and other free public health, so we will do all that is required to ensure that our fellow citizens - and above all those who cannot and do not - have very high services within the ERC hospitals, and that is absolutely free of charge. I'll go to EPPYY. What can I say about the EEA accounts for the last four and a half years? Ladies and gentlemen, the previous political leadership, through the administration of the EEA, is responsible for increasing 32.45% of the extra-private pharmaceutical expenditure, i.e. 823 million euros, because it has not taken any measures to rationalise prices, to control prescriptions and has not applied the excellent medical protocols. In order to avoid disturbing your surplus account, you have hidden behind a measure of automatic budgetary adjustment, an unjust horizontal measure, such as the haircut of clawback, and you have spent five years moving problems and poverty policies towards our own shoulders and, of course, to private providers of pharmaceutical products and services. So you increased by EUR 896 million the clawback and rebate, which you have made individuals pay, you strangled their liquidity, compromised jobs, created various kinds of problems. But also the hospital expenditure - not to forget - increased it from EUR 109 million in 2016 to EUR 178 million this year. Overrun there, in the pharmaceutical cost of hospitals, which you asked the companies to pay, increased by 143%, from 40 million in 2016 to 106 million euros this year. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Of course, I don't want to blame you. I have to say that you were extending the measure to what is about our insecure fellow citizens, both in hospitals and in the EEA. Except you forgot to let Mr. Tsakalotus know. When a measure of EUR 58 million is extended, and it reaches EUR 273 million, Minister, you also have to register the corresponding appropriations so that the hospitals do not collapse and the EEAY does not collapse. I've been looking for time, time for the credits in our hospitals and EEAS, and I've never seen anything. Anyway, we're building an EPO of modern times with transparency and respect for the Greek taxpayer's money. I will go further, because I do not want to delay. I left the anti-smoking law last...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u238	Just shorten your time, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u239	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your grace. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that this initiative by the Government and the Ministry of Health has indeed been a convergence point which we have all agreed on. I would like to know the generosity of the former Minister of Health, Mr Xanthos, who has publicly admitted that this is an achievement of the Ministry of Health. If one takes into account that from tobacco, from smoking, we have twenty thousand deaths a year in our country, we have seven hundred thousand days in our hospitals, and that costs 1 billion to the National Health System, I think we have good, even lastly, implemented the anti-smoking law, and I am glad that it is not about smokers and non-smokers, but about the fight against tobacco, we have all successfully won it. So we are moving ahead with plan and political will and steady steps in small victories for a better quality public health for all, supporting what I have said many times that they are the heroes of the ESS, doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, administrative staff with actions and without unnecessary words. Ladies and gentlemen, as Doxiadis once said, the greatest enemies of health are not microbes, viruses or cancers, it is poverty, ignorance and man's exploitation. That man I think we're all struggling to serve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Minister. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, I would like to ask you for permission, because Mr Kikilias is here, to say something. I would also like to give him time to revise a very small issue that has been mentioned. I would like directly - and because it is a sensitive issue - to refer to what he said, that the previous government has left heavy burns in Matti at the mercy of their fate. Because it is a very sensitive issue, I would like to say directly: Because I was an institutional head of the special central account for sponsorships, since November 2018, we have been on the list - nominal indeed - of all cases of heavy situations that needed for long-term treatment, for special medicines. And I'm talking about the special burners, where an account was opened from the about 30 million who were gathered on a nominal basis for the full coverage of both drugs and long-term care of these people. Of course I am aware - because this was the case when the Eye MDG came in on your day - that some of them want even greater treatment from private individuals and through sponsorships, the current government has continued with this programme. But as far as the previous government is concerned, we had given 100% of the central account. I'm in a position to know. I have no health authority, but I am doing this because I was in the trio of the Ministers. As President of Parliament, I know that we had given a great deal of money, and I had to know that. So in no case can we at least say that the burns from Matti were left to their luck. I wanted the Minister to revise this, because the evidence is concrete and he knows it very well. Of course, there has been a continuation of the programme, and I repeat what I remember - through a special sponsorship, which is perhaps for months or years, for some of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. I apologise to Mr Loverdos for announcing his name, but for a minute I will give the floor to the Minister. Mr. Kikilia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, always behave with courtesy and mildness. These do not compensate private individuals, but EEAY and some other things that were not there, such as special suffocations, medications, etc. However, I withdraw the phrase. I had no intention of insulting colleagues, nor of you, for the initiative and the effort you have shown.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Kikilia. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Loverdos, then Mr Katsaniotis, has the floor. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since 7 July, when parliamentary correlations changed, we have had many opportunities in this House to discuss the state of the economy: government's programming statements, HISPIA, red loans, HERAKLIS project recently, fiscal and now 2020 budget. On the occasion of my reference to late loans, I would ask the Government and the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Finance to take the initiative, whether the President or the Minister, in order to inform the Permanent Commission of the relationship between the loan management companies, that is to say, those who buy the claims of banks and the associations of borrowers. This is because we are reading and being informed by the report of the newspaper financial columns, which gives me adequate information, but the information is in one direction, namely that the relationship between management companies and borrowers is going well. We need to know exactly what's going on. In the urgent procedure whereby the HERAKLIS project was passed, of course, which has nothing to do with the protection of borrowers, we have lost this opportunity. However, we must now learn - and with the new year, this will be our initiative - whether the Government or the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs do not take the relevant initiative. Do we want to know how, for example, strategic poor payers are identified? We read that once detected by the management companies, they pay immediately. How does this happen and it was not done by the banks themselves? Yesterday, Mr Stakoras, in reply to my intervention, said that since 2016, when unpaid loans reached their highest point and began to decrease, which has reached 30 billion and exceeded them, it was not all transferring claims to special management companies, but 50% - a large number - were write-offs of loans. I have no doubts about any evidence that any government gives to the National Representation. But from the information we gather, I repeat, from the report - and it is not an honorable report - Parliament is thus learning - only one management company has purchased EUR 13 billion. How it is possible for 50-50 to correspond to the transfer of the requirements to these companies, i.e. 15 billion, and the 13 billion to have received only one. The other two billion are spread over all the others? I have doubts as to the correctness of the information given by the Minister, we require further clarification that I think we are entitled to have and have. Before going to the issues of the 2020 budget, I find it advisable to make a bridge with the previous one, 2019, giving just a few thoughts of what I had expressed in this Chamber again as a parliamentary representative. According to ladies and gentlemen, with the assessments of the central banker of the country, Mr Stournara, the cost of leaping in the dark of the SYRIZANELs on Tsipras - Varoufakis was EUR 86 billion. There have been too many numbers, I confine myself to the one who has been a member of the SYRIZA. The numbers are relentless. The European Commission and the International Monetary Fund for the four years 2015-2018 predicted - that is, high growth rates. But what happened because of the overthrow of the Samara - Venizelos government and the SYRIZA policy? In 2015, instead of 2.9% growth, we had a recession of 0.3%. In 2016 instead of 3.7% growth, we had a 0.2% recession. In 2017 instead of 3.5% growth we had growth, but 1.5% and in 2018 instead of 3.3% growth, we had something close to 1.9%, as I understand from the debate that is taking place in the Chamber. Potential loss, that is, 58 billion euros, but also a crash of the middle class. What about a policy that led there when he listened to the people who exercised it and confessed with absolute honesty, today to defend themselves against this middle-class government? Mercy! And one last sentence for SYRIZA. I am watching his Members, many Members, asking the government why he does not abolish the taxes they have imposed. I don't care about the absurd tactics. Everyone has the responsibility of what he says, people are listening. I do, however, care to reveal the intentional tactics of this party, to deduct its costs from its existence at the wheel of the country, which was also the cause - let us agree on this - is a good basis for the next day - which, because of SYRIZA and ANEL, has passed two crises. The first, together with Cyprus, Portugal, Spain, Ireland and a second, which did not have economic causes, was political. This burden has been recorded and recorded, mainly photographed by the tax policy of the previous four years. Let's go to the present. They had imposed 100% tax advance, than 50% that they found, and there is no more unfair measure than this and uncertain adequacy with regard to data. How do you know, dear friend, Minister, that you impose this measure, that the freelance professional or the business will have the same activity and the same profits in the next financial year? How do you tax uncertain the end of this financial year? This barbaric, unfair and unacceptable measure is becoming 95%. But that's not a change. That's a mock. I assure you, I have never been fascinated by the populists, nor have I treated populism in my political speech. I'm an enemy of populism, because it's against everyone. All of them! It's no use to anyone. It's the convenience in difficulty. For centuries that's been and that's it. But when you have an unreasonable and unjust measure, so irrational and so unfair, saying 'I'm reducing it by 5%' is a change, is it a relief? It's not. We have, in fact, proposed a law proposal, in two years' time 25% and 25%, to reach 50% of 2014. This is not a measure, ladies and gentlemen, of the Coupling, it is a disgraceful measure for public finances. It's about one-and-a-half meter, one off. It is not something that will be burdening the economy for years in terms of budgetary revenue. It could have been attempted instead of other policies, and I think it is a very serious lack of time for the next few years, against hundreds of thousands of people who are involved in the common economy. Still the primary surpluses, 2020 again 3.5%. We've been telling you this since the day of your schedule statements. Mrs Gennamas told you as President of the Change Movement and I as Parliamentary Representative and all of our Members. Mr Scandalidis told you as the rapporteur-general, Mr Katrinis and Mr Arvanitides as our special rapporteurs. But there is one result. The previous government gives you cash available to the 34-35 billion, which we hear here in the budget debate. A few days ago we had a discussion about the loans, the tax, we heard 34 billion. Now we hear 37 billion. In a brief question from my seat in the Minister for Finance, Mr Stakoura, he replied to me that he has not touched on these amounts. So, can I ask two questions: the repayment of the IMF, our Madam debt, EUR 2.7 billion from what funds? I mean the financial area, we were told a few weeks ago by Mr Stakoura that it was ECU 1,100 billion. I was here and you were here. How is there the possibility of prepayments of this size, given that the cash assets have not been damaged? It's a question. And a second question, and more importantly, why is it not about national accounts, but about our daily life: do you not tell me what will happen? I am not one of those who say'supply it to consumption'. I repeat that I oppose populism. But I wonder what's going to happen? We will add 7 billion from the 2020 budget, we will reach 44 billion. Are these 44 billion to be a permanent fund? Do you have a plan for this? Is it a saving of Greek democracy, to borrow in favourable terms? You have to tell us something. The previous ones, at least, said - and now they deny it, but I have heard Mr Chakaloto say it - that the 5.5 billion of them were intended to make some use of them socially sensitive. That's what he said. He didn't. That's what he said. But what do you think? When you hold the primary surpluses for another year and say that it will be time to reduce - I hear this - you need to tell us at the same time and what you will do what you have already accumulated and will continue to accumulate again with the non-payment of time-limits, again with overtaxation, again with no pension payments. Now we're going to a big subject of the day. Defence: The 2020 budget is reduced by EUR 141 million. The GDP rate falls from 1.86% to 1.72%. The counter-project, obviously, is that on page 90 of the report you say that the cost of equipment increases by 12 million. We hear that. We have had a whole debate - I have no time to repeat it - about what others count on us as the costs that go to the defence of the country, equipment and technology. You need to clarify, however, since the equipment is growing - it is not bad, that is good - from where the EUR 141 million reduction I mentioned to you from the defence comes about. We want clarification. The Minister of National Defence will speak tomorrow and I invite him to make this clarification. Because we hear the ministers, ladies and gentlemen, talking to us about it, as if we were in the programming statements. They're talking about politics. They do not say how much each policy does and what year these future expenditures come into being. We do not, however, make programme statements here. The government didn't come to take a vote of confidence. This is where we make a budget. When they talk about measures, then, they must be combined with the 2020 budget and the specific expenditure in question. I conclude by saying: I have asked Mr. Dogsky five questions at the last meeting of the Standing Committee on Finance on Budgets. I already talked about one thing at the beginning of my speech. I would like to repeat, Mr President, only the headings of the four others: what costs are you going to accept in the 2020 budget for immigration and refugee policies? Here you have tabled an amendment a few days ago, a new coordinator. Is he going to be Mr. Stephanie? You're still not answering. Koumoutsakos, Varvitsiotis for European, Stefan and fourth face now? What's going on? You have to tell us. Above all, I ask, however, that the cost of the amendment that you have put forward is undetermined. The whole thing? You told me then that the Department of Health gave you zero cost, even in Lesvos we had so many people there. Now what's going on? It's been two weeks since we talked. Do you have a picture? Secondly, what about the contributions made by SYRIZA to a taxpayer? You know that. As of 2019, contributions have been taxable income. Do you change that? There are hundreds of thousands of free professionals. They're all reading papers. All ‘I'll...’. Will the Minister of Labour say that? What's he gonna do? We also hear about a change of insurance after the collapse of the previous one. What change? In any case, the indirect taxes paid, you say, will be reduced. Who are these ministers who will inform us of the reductions? Minister, you said you would bring in a table of direct-tax relationships. We didn't see him. Since 2017, this relationship has not been reflected in the budget because - this explanation has been given at the time - the relevant calculations have been changed within the European Union. I ask you: we know that direct taxes have been increased and the reason for direct taxes has been growing for three years. Do you continue this policy? That's how it turns out. But this analysis is indirect. We want you to testify to this relationship before we vote tomorrow night. In conclusion, I would like to repeat what I mentioned in my speech one minute ago: How and why do you nullify the reductions for medium-scale incomes of EUR 20,000 to EUR 30,000? Ladies and gentlemen, with these comments, the opposite opinions, reservations, the unanswered questions, we have said that we are voting against the budget. We note that our opposition as it was for five months will continue to be: concrete, serious, unmistakable, unmistakable, but invasive and subversive where words have long distances from the projects being carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u247	Here, Minister, you have the floor. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Ladies and gentlemen, please. One Minister asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u248	Forgive me, but I will only answer these questions. My intervention won't be political. I should like to begin by asking Mr Loverds the question about the famous 'cushion' project. The way this is managed is a direct function and the achievement of the investment grade and the effort we are going to make in the years to come. There is a DPRK plan for what will happen next year, how we move on next year, but things will change dramatically once the country has an investment grade. We have completely other degrees of freedom in this case. Secondly, immigration policies and refugee policies: Look, there is one particular thing there. In the primary surplus, the programme concerned is not recorded. We intend to make an overview of expenditure on all migration so that resources can be saved from the surplus and additional resources can be provided for funding in the European Union. Health was the first step, where we now have a good picture. We will try in other areas. Thirdly, on defence: in defence we have a rise from EUR 258 to EUR 421 in equipment, if my memory is not cheating on me. In the rest, we have a substantial amount in the special reserve, which we will also make available. There will be no resource problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u249	Where?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u250	From the special reserve. I would remind you that in this budget, in addition to the reserve for extraordinary expenditure, there is also the expenditure expert we know will be, but they are highly uncertaintyful and the Treasury keeps them until they see that they are needed somewhere. Finally, for the middle-class to tell you that our intervention in HNVY was for property of over 60,000 euros. This concerns almost all of the middle-class. And there are so many people who pay HIS, who almost all cover. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Katsaniotis has the floor from New Democracy and Mrs Eleftheriadou will be followed by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budgetary procedure is one of the top parliamentary procedures every year. And it is one of the top procedures not because it concerns a set of numbers that can be verified or disproved, but because this set of economic forecasts reflects the government's strategy and philosophy for next year. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government has in front of it a noose in the neck created by the previous SYRIZA - ANEL government: the exorbitant surplus that stifles the economy, which deprives the country of a valuable financial space and prevents the present government from having the necessary scope for a more aggressive development policy. Also, the current government is obligated to constantly move into the minefield created by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Narcotics in pensions, thousands of pensions pending court decisions that have not been implemented. The minefield in education with the Gavroglou law that has dismantled tertiary education. Minefields, even in the nationalities, with the Ambassadors' Agreement and immigration. This is the environment in which the current government was called upon to take over the fates of the country, and this is the environment in which the Greek people once again trusted the great liberal party of the New Democracy, the party that has been identified with the great national choices. I mention this, ladies and gentlemen, because we know where we are, we have no illusions, we do not hide the truth, we do not look at anything. With the language of honesty we have spoken to the Greeks in an election, and with it we will continue to talk to them. So we tell them that this year's budget is just the beginning of a great and difficult effort, the basis on which we begin to reach the country where it really is worth. However, we still do not have the financial space to achieve a further reduction in taxation, as we would like. With this budget we can and should alleviate our citizens as much as budgetary figures allow us. And that has already been done since the first moment and the Greeks recognize it. Evidently, tax reductions will continue - and they must continue - by depleting all the existing margins. And the more Greek economy grows, the less it will grow. This government knows. He must relieve the Greek citizen of the burdens caused by the crisis and especially those who have supported their advancement, their advancement and their children, their work and their minds, the middle class, those who have been trying to make a better tomorrow. We must strengthen and above all free them from stateism and parasitic entrepreneurship, the two sides of the same currency. A country without production, without inspiration, without strong institutions cannot become strong. We are changing this and, as I said, it is not just a question of economics, taxes and budgets. It is also a matter of politics, of important and brave decisions that need to be taken to cut the shells from the state of anxiety, of inertia and of customer relations. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said earlier, we all know that the financial margins available are very specific. The state, however, can help significantly to strengthen the family's available income. It can reduce the costs of health and education of the middle Greek family, providing citizens with quality free services and it must do so. We've paid to do it with our contributions. We've paid to do it with our taxation. It is typical that research on average monthly expenditure on goods and services in Europe shows us that the Greek family, the family of crisis, gives four times as high as German and twice as high as English and Spanish for private education and twice as high as Germany's private health services. These increased over SYRIZA. Bleeding of the family budget. We have to deal with her. This can be done with much better organisation and coordination of bodies and services, with transparency and efficiency. I present the last study carried out by ELSTAT. [[At this point, Mr Andreas Katsaniotis presents for the minutes the above study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If we succeed in reducing the costs that the Greek family has to pay for health and education each year, we will be able to increase the resources available to the Greek family. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still living in difficult times. For a few months, however, we have also lived in times of hope. All polls confirm this, but most importantly, the citizens who are all meeting in our constituencies say so. This fact gave rise to the struggle of truth and truthfulness against lies and populism. And I am sure that the next budget will be even better and the next one will be even better, because day after day and month, we will win all the bets of modern Greece and we will overcome the obstacles that others have put before us. Our line is here to build a better place for everyone. He is here even to tell our partners clearly that we must all discuss Europe that we want. The Europe of Constantine Karamanlis and its protagonists is not yesterday's vision. It is tomorrow's request for Europe. The Europe of guilds and bureaucrats is a dying Europe. Europe's preservation of national identities, respect for the culture of States, the preservation of the lifestyle of its citizens, is a Europe that can resolve the issues of our time in a united and decisive position. Greece will claim and support its interests in every way. Greece will become strong by its own people. This message is sent in every direction, because the party that governs the place today did not divide the Greeks to unite the Skopje. He never cried for solitaries. The times of the so-called revolutionaries, who have turned into the best children of lenders and foreign interests, are over. Greece is coming back. This is the big message of this year's budget, this is the message of our policy, because strong Greece does not exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u253	Mrs. Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA has the floor. Then the Minister of Citizen Protection will speak, and then the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Athanasios, will speak. Mrs Eleftheriadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am really confused in this Chamber and obviously the whole world that is watching us about whether we have before us the Members of the New Democracy and the Members of the Opposition have the same budget text. You say that the budget is in favour of the middle class, we say that the budget is not in favour of the middle class. Eris's apple is the middle class. That is why I, too, will say today what the middle class says, firstly by assembling that the middle class knows what its interest and benefit is. Yesterday, I had the honour and joy of attending an event for the hundred years since the founding of GSWE, in which we watched a historical documentary...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u255	What's going on now? I don't understand. Excuse me, Mrs. Eleftheriadou, stop for a while. I'll give you the time, anyway, there's been a mistake in the electronic timer. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened? I don't understand. She's a new MP, you're experienced MPs. There's no need for voices.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u256	The New Democracy Members do not have to react. I think they can answer their speeches. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u257	Continue, Mrs. Eleftheriadou, from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u258	Yesterday, I had the honour of attending a GCCWE event in Kavala for the hundred years since its establishment. We have followed a historical documentary called 'Isnaf', which means guild, union, symphony. If you haven't seen it, I suggest you see it. First of all, the documentary gives an answer as to what the middle class is, making a historical retrograde that I cannot now develop to you, but in summary it says that the middle class is the professionals, craftsmen and merchants of our country. This concerns a hundred thousand natural persons and 87% of private workers in our country, i.e. about two million people. These are, therefore, all, together with most civil servants, the majority of the free professionals and retired people, as well as farmers, are the middle-class. The middle class, whether by mobilisation or by means of letters with a protocol number to Parliament, has taken up most of the bills you have brought up to now. It has taken a position on the much-advertised bill with which you allegedly reduced HISBIA, has taken a position on the so-called development bill, on tax, on the draft HERAKLIS law and, of course, on the budget. I imagine that you have not read the views and remarks made by GSEW in your bills, because, if you read them, you would not say that you are acting for the benefit of the middle class. So because I have read them, I do not want to say anything but self-determination what the middle-class budget says. It says, therefore, that with this budget being discussed, there is a restructuring of the tax base that will create technically, but also qualitative issues of unequal distribution of tax burdens and that you are at risk of budgetary equilibrium and income distribution at the expense of the lower strata. That you are taking measures to facilitate major investment projects and not to support small and medium-sized enterprises in environmental and sustainable development and the potential of the cooperative economy. In writing and with a protocol number, the middle class says that there is a great chance that you will not achieve your objectives in the part of the social budget that includes the accounts for the insurance funds, the fight against unemployment, health and welfare, because you are relying on economic assumptions that have not yet been verified and that you will be forced to make negative structural policies to the detriment of social and prosperous benefits to the weaker. In particular, the middle class tells you, in writing and with a protocol number, that you base your social budget on wrong assumptions, on broadening the insurance base by increasing employment by 1.8% for 2020 and increasing wages and insurance contributions. Wait - it says - EUR 293 million from the increase in employment and EUR 300 million from the increase in contributions due to the increase in wages. In your budget, however, you do not make any reference to the increase in the minimum wage. You make no reference to what strategy you will follow to combat unemployment in any of your bills. On the contrary, yes. The anti-government arrangements that you have voted for so far give the impression that employers will be tampering with employment and trade union rights at will. The only reference to your bill for workers is the reduction of insurance contributions to full-time workers, which will bring about? In a single worker's salary increase of EUR 2.34 a month. At the same time, you are reducing spending on employment programmes in the OAED by 83 million, which will increase unemployment, as no programmes will be implemented, as the OAED programmes have not been implemented in the last four months. Your middle class also criticises and reacts to reduce pension expenditure by EUR 192 million, without mentioning where it will come from. Mr Brutsis will have to answer us whether he is going to reduce pensions. The number, compared to the previous September, has already been reduced to two thirds of the pension issued. The middle class reacts because you did not pay the thirteenth pension. I imagine you've seen the retired people who go down on marches, so you know they're reacting. From EUR 300 to EUR 800 a reduction in the annual earnings of the low-pension pensioners. The middle class, too, judges you for reducing the benefits. You are reducing allowances of 400m euros, while in the last four and a half years they have been growing. 5 million minus uninsured overage, 139 million minus family allowances, 52 million minus rent allowance. In place of replacement, you give 2,000 euros for every child that Greek citizens will bear in mind, but take into account that this is not during our times an incentive for young people to have a family and a child. There should also be social benefits: education, health, nursing stations, to decide to have children. I continue to point out to you that the middle-class in writing and your protocol number has said that from the tax you have voted on and from the budget that you have brought to the vote and we will vote clearly that the most favoured belong to the highest income scales. For the low-income and medium-income areas, the relief is EUR 17 per annum and does not cover the relative loss of inflation. Therefore, despite the decrease in the import rate to 9%, there is an outweighing of the benefit due to the indirect adjustment of the tax refund which is adjusted to the existing duty-free limit. He also points out to you, in writing, the protocol number and I read it out: ‘The height and structure of tax evasion is gradually distributed for the benefit of the higher income scales, be they natural persons, individual enterprises or legal persons. Both the tax bill and the budget lead to a reallocation of burdens or better reductions in favour of the most prosperous sections of the population, in favour of large companies, in favour of managers, in favour of multinational foreign enterprises.’ All this is pointed out by the middle class, not by SYRIZA. And I read it in the views of GATT, not in discussions that are taking place within my remit. Where do you read what you've been telling us for so many days? How dare you ignore and at the same time profess that you are legislating for the benefit of the middle - class? This, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the New Democracy, is a mockery, mockery and devaluation of the intelligence and dignity of the citizens whom you have cheated in the election and you have guarded their vote. Merry Christmas! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u259	After consultation and discussions, and on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Chryssohoidis will now speak, then Mr Gregoryiadis will then, after Mr Athanasios, then Mrs Ahtsoglou, then Mr Liutas will close the fifteenth cycle with Mr Xanthos. The Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Chrysochoidis, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the programme statements in July I stressed that the Ministry has a strategic choice: home security, security in the city, security in the country and that for all its areas of action. In the six months that passed first steps encouraging have been noted everywhere. On the streets there are patrols now, public spaces in the neighborhoods of Athens are cleansed by crime. The abattoirs of crime in West Athens break. We're still at the beginning. We have a lot of work and we're not going to stop until we clean up the cities, until we can walk fearlessly and sleep quietly. This year, the celebrations for the Polytechnic School and the events for the memory of the murder of Alexander Gregopoulou were launched without bleeding or burning Athens. Allow me here to give you a parentheses. A conception, a culture of violence, has been developed for a number of years, where political protests are the same as destruction, molotovs and maniac attacks against police officers. The use of such violence certainly does not match and does not relate to politics and does not fall within the scope of democracy. I have often described it and condemned it as degrading. The slogan is the well-known fascist excellence of 'blacks and pigs - murderers' and with great pleasure we all find that in this Chamber all the wings of this House condemn it and go beyond it. Yes, Exarches are no longer unbaptized. We're not done, but we're over halfway. And, yes, hoods, masks and barbecues don't belong in the universities. They're not given asylum to democracy. Let's not get lost and talk about it. In isolated cases, which, of course, seem too many on the Internet because they only show massive, men of MATs cross the line and act brutally. They don't have the right, they can't cancel this House. If they can't withstand the pressure of the moment, if they don't have the necessary restraint, then they don't do this job. However, the internal police control and self-regulatory procedures do not respond to public opinion. These mechanisms exist, they work, but they're not enough. They do not answer because there is something much more effective, in my opinion, right now. He's the Citizen's Counselor and the Citizen's Counselor is the key. In other words, the involvement of an independent authority in the cases of diversion of the police forces is necessary not today for a short, temporary, but forever. It is an additional guarantee not only of protecting human rights, but also of an ancillary mechanism to alert the police to overrun control. For the first time, we have set up a committee with no majority of officials, which will check that the police comply with the conclusions of the CouncU's mechanism of investigation of incidents of police violence. It is therefore a new proposal on the exercise of the rights of political protest and assembly. It prejudges this conception, that logic, not violence. It prejudges legality and not destruction, and in this context defines the police as accountability for the right to expression. In this direction, ladies and gentlemen, a proposal for a law setting the meetings will soon come to the House. The streets of Athens and other cities will cease to be closed undisturbed, undisturbed, fatal. In the same direction, we move on to the multipathic field of sport. We have radically changed the way sports violence is handled. The new model is based mainly on analysis of information and, above all, prevention, where prevention policy dominates design. The stadiums will cease to be the unbaked gangs, acts of violence and the underworld. Immigration can't solve it on our own. But we can organize ourselves to withstand it, to use it to win our international relations. With the new immigration law, the state takes responsibility for asylum policy and stops giving third parties asylum policy. Finally, we have a law that composes European directives, clearly defines the procedures for the reception and examination of applications, asks the applicant for the presence and cooperation in exchange for the care and care offered to him. We are, in fact, doing what we do in security, namely reconstructing the administration, reconstructing the services, responsible for taking the asylum issue into their hands. The real bet, ladies and gentlemen, is not whether a number will come today and tomorrow another number will come. The real bet is not just measuring, the real bet is being able to make our society resilient. And in order to make our society resilient and in any case resilience is measured by the ability to integrate those who are entitled to asylum. Clear law, clear policy: those who are left will join, those who are not entitled to asylum will leave. We have not mourned victims this year from the fires, although their number has increased very much. A decisive factor was the firefighters and their sacrifice, but also the vigilance of the civil administration. But that's not good enough. We are going downwards a new major legislative project in civil protection, a project which provides for the establishment of a single authority with independent responsibilities and with the role of policy-making and coordination between the operators involved. The National Civil Protection System will define functions, interfaces, rules of involvement, decentralised and combined will put us in the modern civil protection needs of the 21st century. Ladies and gentlemen, we are getting out of the crisis after about ten years. I think it is clear that the citizens are unanimously asking us to ensure that conditions are met in order to rebuild life plans. That's what's called regularity. Society has not become either right-wing, left-wing, conservative, or more progressive. These terms reproduce shapes and fuel slogans, but they do not form governance policies and ultimately do not help improve people's lives. The policy that strengthens the sense of security for citizens at home, on the road, is a universal policy. She helps, this is a tool for the citizens. Politics that break down unequally in neighborhoods, stadiums, entire areas are self-evident. The opposite seems incomprehensible today. It's sad to mention, but we don't beat professors at the university when we disagree. It's not a political act, it's no right, it's no talk of burning cops. It's not a right to protest to break jams and destroy foreign property. These absurdities are behind us, and we must leave them behind definitively and irrevocably. We are expected by a world, a struggling way to catch up with changes in technology, artificial intelligence, great data. These change life, they bring new investments, they transform the social state. We need education in the same way. Only thus will jobs be solid, only that way will wages be raised and that is how we will be able to protect the environment effectively. This future does not send out children abroad. This future is not a dream. We can have it and we deserve it. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I am ending, Mr President, in extreme words, that democracy is in danger because we, the current government, are all about athletics. That's the end of demagogy with no limits. We don't want any more slogans. No one tolerates measuring democracy, progressiveity or respect for rights of self-determination with no degree of life. We have to build Greece again and the more quickly and the better we will move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Minister, for the time. Mr Voutsis has asked for the floor. You have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u262	With your permission, Minister, may I ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u263	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u264	I'll only need a minute. I would like you to tell me this, if you know that Athens, which has started from three million, has now arrived - fortunately - to accept six million tourists a year, is considered one of the safest capitals of Europe where there has been no note and no directive from any foreign country in the world to warn the millions of people who come here. And, if you know - I am sure you are aware, I do not want to make a sense of humor - and if you agree that the Ministry of Migration Policy has now been abolished, and since they have come to you in the first three months, four months of competences, and Mr Kumucako, you are no longer competent but a specific institutional provision, which all opposition forces have put at least in doubt days ago, there is a national coordinator in addition to the Prime Minister, who has consolidated all parts of border protection and refugee - immigration issues, which is extremely critical, problematic and to whom you have not referred at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u265	Minister, I don't think you need more than two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u266	I'm gonna need five minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u267	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u268	Mr Voutissis is trying in a paradoxical way to lead me to give him answers, what he wants and wants, but it is an opportunity to place myself on the questions he has asked and say the following things. Of course Athens, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Voutsi, is a safe city, which has become a safe city with the efforts of its inhabitants, its mayors, and with the effort we are making today, so that this city can eliminate crime. I will reply to you as follows: Because many of you are MPs in Athens - I have the impression that it is Mr. Voutsi - to go visit the Municipality of Athens from Patisia below. You have to step there, the state in general, the police for over ten years. It's been over ten years since the state runs a man over there.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u269	Only in June I went ten times.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u270	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u271	I say it because I know it well because I'm there every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u272	Let's calm down. We also have parliamentary representatives and they can take the floor. Go on, Mr. Chrysochide.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u273	Mr President, Mr Voutsis asked the Minister a question. Why is Mr. Janakopoulos flying?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u274	Nobody's flying. Continue, Mr. Chrysochide,
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u275	Because SYRIZA claims to serve the popular classes, so go to the people's districts of 1st Athens, from Patisia and below, to Agios Panteleimon, Sepolis, Victoria Square, Kipseli, Kolonos, Petroula Square... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] ...where there you left two million citizens at the mercy of evildoers for years! That was your policy! And that's what's different! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Today, in every square there are the "PANTHENS", five - six policemen with van, who sit on the square, patrol every day, where you were absent, because you were caring for the people's districts and poor people! Be sure that this effort will continue and be completed, because we understand the need for these people, the poor people of the people in the people's neighbourhood who need security against crime. I would also like to add, Mr Voutsi, the following: all the controversy that is being done here these days on the issue of security is not what you said, namely whether Athens is safe or not. It's about the fact that you're denounced the Greek police, you're stigmatizing a whole body, because some very small, a few incidents of police violence that have not yet been detected, but we sent them there. So I want to tell you this: Because you are pretending that you have now discovered police violence, I would like to present to the House this text, which is the result of the inquiry by the Citizens' Counselor, the 'a mechanism for investigating incidents of police violence' concerning the period from the second half of 2017 and the whole of 2018. It therefore identifies three hundred and twenty-three cases of police violence, for which you have never been involved, never been taken on board. Because, in fact, you've been calling me a few days ago with a press release to say if I'm going to go to the prosecutor on these particular occasions, I want you to tell me how many incidents you went from here. The first thing I did was call the Citizen's Counselor in July. I accepted the Citizen's Counsel, we agreed, I built institutions, I put independent people and not civil servants to control incidents of police violence. And I'll get some more arrangements. Tell me what you were doing for the three hundred and twenty an incident of violence that the Citizen's Counsel denounces in here. You didn't do anything. And now you are simply making it clear that you have discovered police violence and - I repeat - you have stigmatized the Greek Police, a body that fights every day in the neighborhoods to combat crime. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So I say to you this: When there is a question of violating the law, the Constitution and human rights, we will be cruel, ungrateful and send anyone to the prosecutor who does not respect human rights. But on the other hand - and I am ending - I have a question for you. Have you been to the prosecutor all these years that destroyed over a hundred buses and trolleys? Have you been to the D.A. The ones who destroyed the metro canceling machines? Have you taken anyone to the prosecutor from those who destroyed shops, private property of poor people, fighters of everyday life? Never! So I think, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you need to come together. I think you should do a turn inside, to see the problems you have never encountered in all these years. I would ask you very much, on a matter such as security, to have at least an elementary area of understanding. Mr President, I apologise to everyone, but because I have a half a minute left, I would still like to say on the subject of immigration. Mr Voutsis once again asked me about immigration. First of all, Mr Kumucakos has no competence over the substance of immigration. He's dealing with international issues. This is his mission based on the decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u276	Okay. You should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, I am sorry, but this is not a situation. This is a Greek Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u278	Go ahead, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u279	Are you English?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u280	You pretend to be the Englishman.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u281	Let's stop the demonstration...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u282	On the basis of the decision of the Prime Minister, Mr Koumoutsakos is responsible for the international dimension of the immigration issue and does not deal with the Deputy Minister with everyday life. This is his mission and it is doing the best, I have to tell you, because he is present every day in both international and European fora and because he is making international contacts here every day, which helps to make the problem known and to help better with the problem of immigration. I said that because you put Mr. Kumucaco in your mouth. As far as the coordinator is concerned, I would like to tell you this: because in the summer of 2015 you said that there are no sea borders in the country - so you said - and because they then opened the country's borders and flooded with unhappy people, who either wanted to go up or were finally entangled here and, finally, Turkey's neighbour is currently feeding the country with thousands of unhappy people, I would like to say that a nation's basic duty is to protect its borders. And the borders at the moment, unfortunately, were not protected as they should. This is because, as you know, there are many agencies - you have made a government - and many responsibilities are spread. What, then, does the government do to protect its borders that are an elementary national duty? At the moment, he is building a single body, he designates a single coordinator who will run border guarding at the next time. And it's already begun with Evros and it's performing. Evros will be completely closed, completely secure, because measures are taken by all the departments coordinated by the coordinator. This is the national project we are doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u283	Mr President, I would like to speak for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u284	Here, Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor for two minutes. If the Minister responds, the Minister will have two more minutes, because Mr. Gregoriadis, who goes and comes, sits...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u285	Do I have the right to sit here in the KIC ward, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u286	You have the right. I'll give it to you, and I'll give it to the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u287	I asked two questions, and I believe in a way that did not create any sign of controversy or problem in the debate between us. Mr Chrysochoidis has chosen - it is honest - to respond with expressions of the style of 'crude', etc. and to open up a vedal and agenda topics, which even goes to the observance of the refugee - immigration. I just want to say something to him, because today I was at the honorary event for the thirty years of the Greek Observatory and the Council of Refugees, and at the same time it is happening today and tomorrow in Geneva - you should know - the first International Conference by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. If they listened to what you said in the last two and a half minutes, their hair would rise, because they are out of place, time, national conventions, international conventions, etc. I'm talking about everything you've said in the last two and a half minutes. I also had the honour of being Minister of Interior and Immigration and Citizen Protection, where you are now, Mr Chrysochide, in the first half of the year. But you realise that this debate would take time, not to do so now. However, you have spoken in an officer's way, which I repeat is entirely in addition to what Mr Grant said to us here a while ago, which Mr Leclere said, and I am not saying about the Greek authorities and all the parties on these issues. Mr. Gerapitris is present, he was also a leading executive of the ECHR and he knows that what you said has nothing to do with the country's conventions and obligations. I'm closing this. I will not go back to the questions I have said, because it was clear that you have made a choice to answer the others. Firstly, you should know that we have been present and we have been here all these years, under the Patrizia, everywhere. And it is no accident that the election result there, which seems very clearly who are present and who are involved in the security of the citizens who have already taken a special form in the micro-crime and for reasons of particularity that have been analysed here in very long discussions at the level of party leaders over the last four years. You must know that we have always honoured and honoured the Greek Police, and you are not him and do not do so, unfortunately some of the famous trade unionists throughout the pan-Hellenic world who come to the panels that are being set up to cause war for Turkey or when they have no war with Turkey, are creating conflicts on our own issues. You are not allowed to take the Greek Police on you against all others, i.e. the Police Department parties and in this regard we handled for four and a half years and with worthy ministers who were before you, who not just honoured and honored the Greek Police, its role at all levels. From that point on, I would refer you to this point of view, and that is what I am closing down. Look at the parliamentary checks and see the publications in the previous four and a half years. For these symptoms you said, what you showed us - you had made announcements two - three weeks ago - how much they are, what they are not, what they are, what they are, what they are, what they are, what they are, illegal or what they are, or what they are, and what violence they are, in activists - unacceptable - and so on, those who had been sensitised and put them to the ministers of their government at first were the MPs and MPs of the SYRIZA, the JRC and the other parties and of course at the time of the opposition. We have not been silenced once in these cases. So don't fortify behind such false dilemmas, but join forces and with the assistance of the Alibizatou committee and the assistance of the Citizen's Counselor. But that's the assistance. You also have internal authorities and the way and methods and institutional responsibility towards the few but shameful actions, which are unfortunately encouraged by the public word of some trade unionists, and be unscathed. As far as we have been concerned throughout the past period, we have been very clear, we have been ruthless in this regard and we have been the ones who have been publicising these phenomena. Because authoritarianism and repression are against our children, they are against your children, they are against ordinary people. It is not possible to close our mouths with any government and situation if possible. At this level of the debate and of co-responsibility obviously and would be acceptable to any common concern and perspective on matters. In the other 'we also brought Greece and Athens to be quiet now', I have to say to you: five years have passed thirty million tourists and has not opened a nose, but is nothing wrong? Didn't Mr. Toskas do it, did Mrs. Gerovasil not do it, did the Secretary-General not do it with the leaders of Greece, who were not ours, Mr. Chrysochoidis? You know that very well, because you have the Secretary-General now, and in the context of his activity, he has honoured his role. Those as an answer, which was due because you "opened the trachea" too much, to two simple questions that I asked you!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u288	Mr Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u290	The Greek Solution was not mentioned at all, so you cannot take part in either of the debates.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u291	But he didn't mention SYRIZA either.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Voutiss provoked the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u293	One question he asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u294	Come on, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honestly, it's time! Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know if you have noticed this, there is a quite strange repetition of a particular dystomia in achieving the voice of Mera25 climbing into it here. It's at least paradoxical, I note. Mr Chrysochide, you know - I'm sure - how much I appreciate you and I respect you personally. I have listened to you for this reason with particular attention, as I always do when you talk. We're politically rivals, but there's no reason not to appreciate each other. I imagine feelings are mutual. I am forced, after listening to you and having listened very well to all your views, to inform you that for days now she has been making the round of the internet an interview with "KONTRA 24" and in particular Mrs Anastasia Yamalis. I read to you very few, two phrases from this interview a few years ago, where you say in word: 'Social issues will we fight them with the police? Did the police give any kind of social problems? Do they really think that if we arrest a child who might throw a molotov at some point and put it in jail, it won't come out of that worst criminal? Because in our prisons criminals are coming out. And it's another fact that someone's being blamed for anarchist ideas. That's not debatable criminal. People ask - do you continue - how did a child get 15 years old on the street and throw stones? So who's going to go out? Do you answer - on the street after all, if a child doesn't get 15 years of age and even too often from a middle-aged family because he had some ideas? You cannot - you end up - arresting 15 years of age children because they are anarchists alone." I remind you of this in order to ask you a correct question, and I am waiting for a correct answer. What has changed, Mr Chrysochoidis, in the twelve infamous memorial years when Greece is falling apart? I cannot imagine you saying that our prisons were improved and by magic after twelve years of memorialization from where a child 15 is not a criminal when he was in prison, now a perfect refreshment is just a Christian! I guess not. Also, I really want to ask you what changed in your life, Mr. Chrysochide, and you need to take a place in it. Were you right then, a few years ago, when you said that it is not a solution to treat young people who have such behaviour, sometimes a little offended? You think you're right today? Are you saying that at the time you were a defenseless young man and, unfortunately, you saw it that way, but now that you have grown up and thought more wisely, are you coming to the conclusion that you were wrong and that this is the proper tactics of society? So he's gonna catch the fifteen-year-old kids throwing a molotov? Because your government feloned molotov, I didn't do it. But you were saying a few years ago that if you didn't throw this kid molotov, who's gonna shoot. I mean: if you really do, with the soundness that you have gained, you shuffle, and you say that this is how society has to be treated with young children throwing a molotov, catching them for a felony act, put them forever in prison, to go out after being convicted and marvelous Greek patriots, then support it. Ladies and gentlemen, to come to this point, the French President and Prime Minister Raimon Puancar once said during the mid-war: 'In life there are three types of lies: genuine lies, treaty and budgets.' I think it is clear, first of all, that the French President just a century ago had more sense of humour than Mr Mitsotakis had today. The budgets, I have to say in general, ladies and gentlemen, are kind of lies by definition, because they are nothing but wishful thinking. But when as Prime Minister of the country you have received and acted in particular, I must say, they have talented the role of the ideal prisoner, then the budgets of godly desires become a garrison. And when an entire party consumes - and we have seen it here in the past few days - its entire energy potential to convince us that this year's reduction in HPAI, which will take back the year, as objective values are growing together with some tax reliefs in business, will bring growth, while at the same time ignoring, as always, a huge mammoth in the room called - I will not get tired of saying it - primary surpluses over 2%, for the next 40 years and which is very much resilient with a little smaller elephants, which, thanks to your extremely bold reduction, is now only 95% advance tax payment for all our businesses, then what apologies, but the glosssing fares are losing whatever measure you have and I honestly no longer know what is called in the science of theatrology. The real paradox, if you would like my opinion in this budget that you are bringing to the House today, which, beyond the two naturally mentioned masts that are slashing wildly in the room of our debt-government, is that this is another clear Memorandum budget. His predictions - as prosperous as they may be - are heard and as much as they are used by the government to advertise return allegedly to normality, development and exit from the memoranda - are nothing new or hopeful. Unfortunately, we are here, once again, to repeat the familiar recipe of austerity: containment of expenditure and the establishment of public tax evasion. In particular, all the tax reliefs announced are completely unequally distributed and only in favour of the business sector, not only to tell you in favour of the extremely rich, a branch of the business sector, despite the fact that the provision of tax incentives in the private sector has already been tested on several occasions, during our sad memorial years and has also failed. So the government chooses to win one, in many, the same thing as the previous Memorandum budgets, while according to all the speakers we have heard here these days, both from the New Democracy side and from the police department, it has already been a year and a half since we came out of the memoranda. Is it not paradoxical, then, to say that we still need a Memorandum Budget with the same recipe, while we have been out of the memorandum for a long time? Two few, ladies and gentlemen, can happen: Or we never got out of the memorials, so some people are normally working here, or we've all gone out, but especially you have come to the conclusion that the twelve years of memorial policies that have been carried out have been perfectly appropriate, that is to say, doing good to the economy of the country and the citizens, so for even better days - to remember the nice old PASOK - you're going to continue with it. You will allow me here to make an important point - I think - pointing out. Growth of GDP in no way presupposes growth in any way. Development comes in a society when the whole of this society is favoured by changes. The growth of GDP is just a numerical imprint and nothing else. The government in the 2012 budget report predicts GDP growth to 2.8%. At the same time, the corresponding forecast - and you know it - of the OECD is 2.1%, the International Monetary Fund and the European Commission 2.3%, while the Bank of Greece - see Mr Stournaras - calculates GDP levels to 2.4%. Question: Can any of the Members of the Co-Population - excuse me - the Ministers of Government, or can he, the Prime Minister of the country himself answer us what is the medium-term public debt service rate? Do you know why I'm asking you? Because as long as we've been looking for that number for weeks, we can't find him anywhere. What happens to that figure, why should that figure be so illusory, just decimal number, which says how much the average target of our debt is, in simple words? You know, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, why is this number not mentioned anywhere in any public document? Because all the measurements of this world's experts, they take him out, this desert number, about 2.5%. I imagine you understand, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, exactly what that means. Does it mean that if the growth of our nominal gross national product is from 2.1% to 2.4%, as all organizations in the world and the Bank of Greece predict, what does that mean? It means that in the coming years our debt will continue, I mean, of course, while the growth of debt continues to fascinate with 2.55%, if we combine this two information, it simply means that in the coming years our debt will simply continue to grow, instead of decreasing in relation to our nominal Gross Product. It needs to be stressed at this point that this policy is currently and completely outside the European framework and climate, as strong pressures are being put on the whole of the continent towards increasing public spending and investment in order to avoid another relapse in the recession. In your 2020 budget, however, expenditure, which is intended for the social sectors of state funding, i.e. health, education, culture and welfare, has been considerably cut or at best remain at the same level. It is extremely pitiful - I say this for the Minister of Health, I thought that he has left now, yes - and sincerely frightens us the fact that the health ministry's expenditure ceilings, for example, are falling by 182 000 000, of the Ministry of Culture and Sport by 61 000, 000, of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by 382,000, 000. A single case is recorded growth is in the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, which is only 14,000,000 against 2019. Honestly, I ask you: does the government consider that these neural ministries have had sufficient funding so far? Let me say it more briefly: they've been exaggerated - do you believe - money? Do you think they're out of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs 382,000,000 last year, and that's why you cut them off this year, why did they get lost, didn't have where to do it? Because all the information goes backwards. At the same time, the social benefits are being reduced by half and all those that are maintained are being redistributed to beneficiaries in the form of benefits which, however, are not entitled to whom? Immigrants. It is a phenomenal idea of the government to reduce expenditure to almost all the benefits already paid. It is obviously linked to its intention to cut down the number of immigrants who fulfil the conditions and have established their right to these social benefits. So xenophobia and racism all their majesty! Or how a government's policy promotes the separation of residents of a country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall use my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u296	Mr. Gregoriadis, you don't have any dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u297	I'll be done in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u298	All right, let me give you time, just the parliamentary representatives, they don't have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u299	In the critical area of taxation, therefore, there is no distinction in any part of the budget between direct and indirect taxes. Don't get tired of me. These taxes are the indirect taxes that Mr Vardinoyannis, Mr Latsis, and I and a homeless man are considered by the state to have the same tax capacity and therefore we should pay the same, if we take anything from a bottle of water until I say a product. Now, the memories are coming back. The budget proposed, ladies and gentlemen of the Complex, is classic, has an economic and ideological sign and separates the rich from the poor. The terms of the 2020 budget are stable and certainly geared to serving and maintaining the prerogatives of the powerful, but also to serving the credentials of the ideal prisoner to our lenders, you are deceiving the public sector, you are shrinking the social state, you are insisting that you support the private sector for a long time. And one last question. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, why are you fighting for four days now? Why do you disagree so much on all the fronts, since you fully agree on the basic? We've been out for a year and a half - if I've understood both sides of this House well - from the memorials, have we not? After we got out, you guys did it, you guys keep doing it in a good way, why are you fighting? And in reply to Mr Tsakalotos, I would like to say that the New Democracy has indeed come much worse than what you have been ruling, but when you call on us and ask us to make a forward progressive and to resist this populace that comes, on what basis do you mean it? On the basis of whether it was a good recipe that all right, fine memos, they're just bad ones, they're unspeakable right and they're badly applied? For God's sake! Last year's budget you saw it was and you saw what it turned out to be. Nothing for the people. Now, I'm closing right now. Prime Minister, while you are playing the role of the ideal prisoner by accepting the continuation of our country's captivity, as long as you do not say kilns about the primary surpluses and other elephants of your debt-government, and above all, as long as the self-evident laws for the survival of Greece and its inhabitants are not implemented. It will be good not to celebrate your budgets, because by doing it you remember a football player who has confused goalpost and furiously celebrates the self-government that has just worked. If you continue, like all the previous ones, to avoid the break with the irrationalism of the institutions, you will end up like all the previous ones in Civicism, I hope with us in the government, that is, Mera25, because this night lasted a great deal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. I remember an old national player who was the first scorer to come out, but all his goals were self-government. Mr Athanasios has the floor, and then Mrs Ahtsoglou. Here, Mr. Athanasios, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it took almost five years to present the House with a budget, which again marks the turn of Greek society towards the free market, growth, attraction of investment, equality and justice. It is a budget that marks Greece's shift towards a liberal environment, a healthy environment, a pro-European environment, a development environment. We mean real development, with data and policies that clearly define who we are and where we are going, without regression, without half-wages, without heterogeneous services, nepotism, false and misled, because it is clear that economic growth alone is not enough to lead to the well-being of society. Numbers and measures should go hand in hand with policies consistent with the Constitution, promote our external relations, combat corruption, facilitate the daily lives of citizens and promote social cohesion. That is why the Greek society gave us the mandate to change page on July 7 and that is exactly what we do at a rapid pace, with design, with emphasis primarily on the Greek citizens, who have actually been seen in the last decade. We have already achieved this in the first five months of our administration in the economy and in investment, taxation and pensions, health, justice, defence and public administration. How did we do all this? We just did it because we are not afraid to try, we are not afraid to pursue successful practices of other states, we are not afraid to hear proposals from other party parties, we are not afraid to succeed. For us success is the measurable results, not the failure or sprinkling of others. Others before us were occupied by fear of failure and tried by fixed testimonies and false witnesses to smash consciences and behaviors and convert slogans to slogans on the streets into clipping and misdesigned accusations in order to survive politically. As we have repeatedly pointed out, we are not aiming at re-engaging. He's not expressing us. He expresses other factions. We in the New Democracy are only interested in truth and justice, and in the end they will emerge. We know very well that when the law conflicts with politics, the law always wins. These principles, however, are consistent with the sense of citizens' security, and in this area our Government has succeeded and continues to succeed. It is no coincidence that, on both November 17 and December 6, nothing happened except individual incidents, contrary to what was happening other years. No tolerance to infringing behaviors, no tolerance to "bugs" but is equal to everyone. We want behaviours which, however, go hand in hand with a modern and effective Criminal Code, and that is why we reviewed it and intervened as it should be. We have done this together with all the rest in just five months and then, in addition to the amendments that have already been made to specific articles in the Criminal Code, which have been considered problematic, the Minister of Justice, Mr Chiaras, intends to set up a Committee of Scientists, which will study and suggest what other changes are necessary under the provisions of the current Criminal Code. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, our social and economic policies are appreciated by the Greek society both numerically and qualitatively, and this has already become visible to the international community. Unfortunately, in the face of the danger of facing a social, economic and politically strong, neighbouring states such as Turkey, in fear of its further isolation, adopts practices and policies of intimidation in order to draw as many benefits as possible, but once again our Government was ready to face the challenges methodically, wisely, upgrading Turkey's moves to an international problem, but primarily by following a single policy both at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence. Uniform and responsible policy, ladies and gentlemen, not contradictory and provocative, a policy which at any time is dynamic and whenever needed is flexible and realistic. Extreme contradictory approaches belong to the past, and that is where they will stay. We don't need them, the country doesn't need them. What Greek society and Greece need is stability, growth, security, freedom, justice. That is what we need, and that is what our young people, who have gone abroad to find better working conditions and we think, above all, because we have not only given them the opportunity - I have to admit - of all the parties to vote in their homes abroad. We have not recently introduced incentives for their return to the Greek labour market, but we consider and are our primary objective that the current of Brain drain will be reversed for the benefit of our children and our country. This message was sent by the government through the Minister of Home Affairs, Mr Theodorikos, to our young people with the opportunity to vote at their residence, a message of reunion with the country. This universal consensus that has been reached is a success of our political system and at the same time an end to an institutional omission of the state. I hope that such consents will come from now on and so our country's political culture will emerge and the principles of the rule of law will be consolidated even further. These are our principles that have become fully aware during the first few months of our government and these principles reflect, ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are voting on tomorrow, the principle of a better tomorrow, because we believe in the educational role of politics and policies, because, as has been said by the IGC, the morality of the entire state is the same as those of those who govern it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Ahtsoglou, on behalf of SYRIZA, has the floor and then Mr Liutas from New Democracy. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u303	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to get straight to the point. The 2020 budget serves, adopts a very specific strategy, a strategy that says that if you broaden the benefits, if you increase the profits of a very small economic base, this will ultimately stimulate the economy and give society a wider impetus and wider benefits. This strategy is internationally adopted by many political forces and has also proved to be socially ineffective internationally. Finally, it turns out to be compressing, that it reduces the level of living of wide social strata and middle class and lower incomes. I would like to come to the hub in my view as a question of wages and unemployment. The wage policy is, in my opinion, one of the most serious nuclear issues, and we need to have a serious debate at some point. The New Democracy Government makes a very specific choice in terms of wages. It hits collective bargaining, the overpowering of sectoral collective labour agreements in the way it was in 2012 and keeps the minimum wage compressed. I didn't see anything to raise the minimum wage in the budget. You were electorally committed to an increase of twice the growth. This should, with your data, mean about 5.6%. There is nothing like that in the budget. You have to answer if that's what's going to happen. In our view it is an unrealistic, inadequate increase. So we have two options, a hit on collective bargaining, and a compressed minimum wage. These two key choices keep wages in the country at very low levels. They are wage squeezing options internationally both in literature and practice and in our country's experience. I want to show you something very special. This chart shows the course of average wages, not minimum wages. What's going on here? Since 2012, when the collective bargaining hits and lowering the minimum wage, the average pay rate has fallen. In our own period of governance - I want to be honest with this - the average wage, lower than before, has a downward trend. When's the big change? The big change takes place here, 2018-2019 and I mean in spring 2018 with the spring of 2019. The figures are May. What changes at the time? Two things: the collective agreements of employment are back, the minimum wage is increased and the subordinate is abolished. It's growing dynamically. We increased him by 11%. These are two policies which are extremely key. Again, we have the experience, we have the literature, we have all the international data showing that these are the policies with which you increase wages, average wages, not the minimum. How's the New Democracy? At the moment, the government is making the exact opposite political choice, so it is a political choice to squeeze wages. It is characteristic that the Commission - I will table these in the Minutes - comes and makes a review downwards of its assessment of the wage path in the autumn of 2019. He had made an assessment of much greater wage growth in the spring and came and revised downwards, because these wage squeeze policies were just mediated by internationally recognised wage squeeze policies. It is characteristic that countries with very low unemployment - not like us -, with 4% unemployment, such as the United States, the United Kingdom, with the same policies, cannot have paid jobs. It is therefore a strategic option to not have paid jobs in the country with these two policy moves. I come to the second issue of unemployment. There from the budget - and I will put it in the Minutes with emphasis on exactly what I say in the budget - you are making a choice to reduce the work programmes, that is, in 2020, the New Democracy Government with unemployment at 17% opts to reduce the allocation for work programmes. How much does he do that? As magically as it would be necessary to maintain four thousand young scientists at work. It was a program that we created on SYRIZA, people with qualifications, with graduates, with postgraduate diplomas, with doctors working on specific projects in the public sector, and this program you are stopping it. It costs just as much as you cut the OAED forecast for 2020. It is therefore a strategic option to reduce work programmes in the country with this unemployment. I say this because there are some communication impressions about Brain Drain. I think that, from this alone, one can understand what a fundamental job is and what a job is simply to communicate impressions. I'm on my way to insurance. The Minister for Labour would, at some point, do us a favor - even in a limited debate - within the House. He never does this favor to us. All the time before, he says at every opportunity about the huge unfinished business left by the SYRIZA government regarding the outstanding pensions. He's even come to say numbers for millions. I will once again submit to the Minutes how many loose ends we left: EUR 100,000 are the loose ends that we left to him, but I do not want to say this today. In the 2020 budget, New Democracy is reducing the cost of pensions by EUR 200 million, and that should be explained to us by someone. Why do you reduce pension costs? What does that mean? How does this go hand in hand with the huge loose ends that you are supposed to receive, or with the question of the pension increases I see on Sunday's newspaper headlines, after you reduce the pension expenditure? Next issue also concerns insurance: the budget also reveals something very crucial for the contributions. New Democracy was electorally saying that it would alleviate the employees. The relief for employees from the contributions is of the order of EUR 2 per month for a employee who receives the minimum wage. And what I just said - the two euros a month for a employee who receives the minimum wage - is the only measure that one employee can see in this budget, these two euros a month. This is the relief described in this budget for an employee with the minimum wage. For the contributions of the free professionals: for those who have not heard it, on the basis of what has been announced, we have an insurance scheme which provides for an increase in the contributions of free professionals by 20%. 85% of the free professions will pay 20% more to reduce the contributions of some of the few. He comes here, Mr. Meatakis this morning and says he's a social justice insurance policy. Is this a social justice insurance thing? That is the definition of injustice. 85% should be imposed to reduce a truly infinite number. It's the definition of injustice. At the same time, a man who makes 7,000 euros a year will pay the same as one who makes 100,000 euros a year. This is the definition of an unjust system. The welfare issue has been mentioned by colleagues very specific reductions in critical social state allowances. They say yours is the evidence of the Treasury. We're not making it out of our minds. We will have reductions in housing allowances, allowances for people with disabilities and family allowances. Less money will be given than in 2019 to these critical categories, on these critical foundations of the social state. In fact, with this budget, the potential of the Greek economy is used in an extremely unfair way. They are actually wasted on most of the Greek society that cannot see itself in this text, a text of enormous importance, because it defines the policies of the next year. Therefore, this is also a text of discrediting the expectations of the citizens. It is provocative that this is the case - that they cannot even see themselves in this text, not even their relief - when the budget is expansive, that is, it is a budget that reduces charges. It simply reduces burdens for very few, and that is exactly where his injustice lies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mrs. Ahchioglu. Mr. Liutas has the floor from New Democracy and the cycle will be completed with Mr. Xanthos from SYRIZA. The next cycle - the sixteenth - will be opened with Mr. Augiakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u305	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, through the debate that is taking place these days in the Greek Parliament for the 2020 budget, Greek society is witnessing an event that deserves us all. The commitments that the New Democracy has made before the Greek society are being carried out. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] They are the commitments aimed at a better and fairer future for all Greeks. They are the commitments that aim at a strong economy with high growth, those growth rates that will lead our society to prosperity. The 2020 budget is a purely development budget. In particular, there is an increase of 2.8%. This development marks the substantial recovery and uplift of the Greek economy. It marks the de-escalation of unemployment, creates budgetary gain, leads to a strong state that is productive and will contribute to growth and ultimately sets all the necessary foundations for a stable upward and sustainable path. At the same time, the 2020 budget also has a strong social dimension, which reflects the worthy system of our prolongation, a dimension that refers to our unnecessarily objective of social justice. Social justice, together with economic freedom, has since the establishment of our paramount objectives. In the 2020 budget, our value principles operate symmetrically and complementaryly. Initially, the freedom of the economy is achieved through state rationalisation. To this end, the New Democracy Government is going to implement a sensible fiscal policy. In particular, our budgetary policy has two pillars. On the one hand, it is based on the decisive control of public spending, while on the other it is based on a fair and efficient tax policy. Initially expenditure is controlled decisively. Our rule is that the state is not harmed, pays off. Our tax policy then reduces burdens, increases public revenues and widens the tax base. As a general result of our tax policy, there is also tax justice, which is the factor that will decisively be the incentive in favour of the cohesion of society in terms of its obligations in the State. Tax justice also dominates many times, as the state today comes and repays its debts to the citizens. All this is inaugurating a new day in our country's fiscal policy. These policies are very important as they lift unbearable burdens and substantially help society. In particular, they are policies which will help the development throughout the entire region and the breadth of our country. In my constituency of Trikala, in particular, the introduction of the 10% rate for agricultural cooperative schemes will lead directly to partnerships with the benefit of all, which will help to increase the overall agricultural activity and strengthen the income available to farmers and their families. The same positive prospects will be for all other professional sectors. Reduction in taxation is the most immediate tool for real growth. At the same time, as I have already said, the 2020 budget has a strong social character. In particular, the additional EUR 1 000 for every child, the EUR 2 000 for every young child born in the family from 1-1-2020, the low VAT rate for infant species and for the helmets of safety are only a few points of our social policy, a social policy that will help, support the family and support the Greek society. In addition, I would also like to focus on the objective of increasing exports. Due to structural weaknesses, our country has timeless deficits in the commercial balance. This proves a deficit of competitiveness. However, note that this deficit is not about the quality of Greek products, it is not about the quality of our workforce or about the quality of our country's business. This deficit is about the distortions of the institutional framework and the unfavourable political practices of the past. Our national economy is characterized by high quality domestic production, as well as very high potential, the potential of all our workforce. So the prediction of increasing competitiveness proves that our Government is determined to remove these obstacles. In areas in the labour market and the product market, with the reduction of taxation and solutions in the banking system, we will move forward. Ladies and gentlemen, in running the 2020 budget, one finally sees the realistic dynamic that exists in our country today for economic growth. This potential comes to be supported by development policies. First of all, we have the armour of budgets in the direction of creating a strong economy. Then we have the efficiency of our tax policy. At the same time, the government is advancing in the direction of unbundling all productive forces. All this ultimately leads to a steady upward trend for our economy and society. Unlike the objectives which we are setting today, the SYRIZA government has created unnecessarily tax burdens. The government has also exercised an extensive austerity policy. The result of this policy was market forces, work, entrepreneurship and research to remain committed to state-owned gears, to have no margin, the slightest benefit, and finally to Greek society stay away from the hope and perspective of free and solidarity growth. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, describes the past. The Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis are turning the page. Our Government leads the Greek society to a new day, on a day that we will all fight together for fair growth, which will support entrepreneurship and create new, stable and well-paid jobs, which will mean the return of the Greeks who left, in the crisis, back to our country, who will produce and go with great demands in the international environment. That perspective, that is, our future is building and serving the 2020 budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u306	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The floor Mr. Xanthos from SYRIZA, so we finish the fifteenth cycle. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u307	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not make any reference to the general picture and the budget figures. I think that it has been very well documented all these days, that at its core it is a reverse redistribution of income, which broadens economic and social inequalities in the country, while the bet of the new period is to narrow the social gap, strengthen social cohesion and consolidate fair growth. You'll allow me a reference more specific to the health part. In the background of numbers and the large picture, which exists in the health system, ladies and gentlemen, the National Health System, after a period of major cuts - cumulatively, cuts in public health expenditure in the first five years of the crisis were 40% - and after multiple wounds, which were created in public structures through the recruitment freeze for a period of five years, has been on a path since 2015 and after healing wounds and gradual, stabilised and upgraded operation. That's the truth. The normality, ladies and gentlemen, of the functioning of the health system was brought by the previous government of SYRIZA, and the last worker in public hospitals knows that. It is very well understood by the citizens, who were excluded from their access to the public health system and decent medical care. We have finally and irrevocably closed this social barbarity of the exclusion of uninsured people and have been actively faced with this area of health poverty created in society. This was a huge investment in social cohesion, in the dignity and safety of people in the face of illness and at the time of need. Of course, we have achieved this by strengthening the health system with critical resources. Since 2015, the downward trend in expenditure has stopped. From 4.6% as a percentage of GDP in 2014, which was the budget low in the funding of the health system, we have managed, with very great difficulty and within the memorandum and within austerity, to take it to about 5.2%, where it has remained stable all the other years. With this aid to material resources and a critical injection of human resources, which took place over the years, which has essentially since 2016 reversed the departure relationship to placement, to recruitment, we have managed to achieve this stability. We have naturally achieved this with the help of the human resources of the ERC, which understood that a huge effort has been made to strengthen and improve public care and not to cut down, depreciation, abandonment and privatization as in the past. We have done this because we have had another political project, not because we have been more capable or more sensitive. We had another political project aimed at reducing inequalities. Let me say that this has now been recorded and confirmed in a measurable way. Get ELSTAT's newsletter of September 2019. There is an indicator that is unsatisfied with people’s medical needs. This indicator from 4% before the crisis reached 14.4% in 2015 and 2016 and in our years. After the "location" intervention to cover uninsured in 2016, this indicator retreats four units and is now 10.4%. Measureable reduction of health inequality. And, of course, there are other changes in critical and sensitive indicators, such as the index of infant mortality, which, according to an excellent report, has been made by the Commission and the OECD, has also been improving trend, we have started to rise, we have passed Europe's average and now, in the last report, our country is below the European average, it is 3.5 deaths per thousand births. The European average is 3.6. These, therefore, indicate, in our view, that another political project has been implemented. A political project which emphasised universal and equal access for citizens, without discrimination and the strengthening, moralisation and reorganisation of the public health system. What's your political plan, gentlemen of collapsation? In my view, what is now quite clear and results from the public position, from the agenda that you are discussing with the trade unions in the New Democracy, from the presence of government officials in discussions on public-private partnerships, etc., is that what you consider to be a priority today, now that the health system is stable, operational and upright, is to start divesting the 'dileto' sections, to give space to private investment, and particularly to private insurance companies in order to be able to exploit the functioning of the National Health System, in order to make a profit. That is, I think, an active project, and I would say aggressive privatisation. In the first memorandum years, we had a plan of passive privatisation, with cutbacks, a reduction in the public sector and a transfer of costs to the citizen. What you are now doing is: without cuts, we give private sector intervention to the core of the public health system, and in fact, with ideas of changing the legal status of hospitals, becoming legal persons and not legal entities governed by public law, abolishing full and exclusive employment in hospital doctors, so that private doctors can provide private work in public hospitals. These are discussed by the Panhellenic Medical Association, these are the proposals for experts with whom you have opened a dialogue. I think this leads to the cancellation of what we knew as a public health system since the '80s. It is a huge degradation of the ESS and of public care, and I think that must be answered with a strong, firm and decisive social and political front. I heard the Minister in an interview saying he's the guardian of free and public care in the country. I think that with this line which he obviously slowly prepares and advances the ground, the very opposite is the case. Guardians of public care in our country must be - and they will be - the left, the progressive political forces, workers, honest and committed to public care of the ESS, civil society, patient clubs, the left-wing and progressive world. They will bring about a serious resistance to these plans and, in my view, will claim in the new period that has greater budgetary flexibility, not just to support in a miserable way the present RSH, which obviously still has problems and open wounds, but to extend the policy of universal coverage, to cover more needs through public policies, such as dentistry, rehabilitation - rehabilitation, psychosocial support, care for dementia and Alzheimer's, care for people, who need relief and cancerous end-stages, i.e. a huge range of services that, in my view, want a great reorganisation of the ESS and the social state in the coming years. I believe that all of this, obviously, cannot be guaranteed by the budget currently tabled by the government and in that sense we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u308	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, eighteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st General High School Argos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would also like to inform you of the course of today's sitting. Tonight, the list will go up to number 192, which is about the middle of the 16th cycle. The speeches of the other parliamentary representatives and the other ministers will also be completed. Tomorrow, the meeting will start at 11:00 in the morning. Tomorrow's meeting will conclude the list of speakers, if they so wish, the six rapporteurs-general, as well as those of Parliament's representatives who wish. Then the Ministers, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups will speak and the debate will be concluded with the intended vote. The speeches of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups are expected to begin about 16.00' - 16.30'. And now I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr Aygeakis, and immediately thereafter to Mr Mylonakis, who is a parliamentary representative of the Greek Solution. Here, Minister, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Madam President. I too should welcome the Argos students, wish them health, strength and a year full of good news for you and your families. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the 2020 budget today. In other words, we are talking about the first, essentially, development budget after many years, having been in the most unfavourable economic conditions that Greek society could have passed post-culturally. This is because, since the first actions of the current government, it was intended to reverse the economic climate, which had shown signs of downsizing and downsizing due to over-taxation and disinvestment policies by the previous SYRIZA government. In 2019 it was the year of gradual transition in a period of more favourable economic conditions. These conditions reconcile the improved economic climate, established in the second half of the year, on the basis of increased confidence and accelerating the reform effort by the new government, the commitment to budgetary and reform objectives and the greatest degrees of freedom in specialising economic policies within these objectives. The economic policy pursued by the Government aims to reverse this situation and to increase the dynamic investment in the Greek economy. Today the economic climate in Greece remains stable at high levels, supported by the restoration of confidence, the stabilisation of low-level borrowing rates and, of course, the anticipated positive completion of the fourth assessment in the context of enhanced supervision, which will become the next Eurogroup. All economic growth components, i.e. consumption, exports and, in particular, investments are increasing significantly. The 2020 budget is the first budget, which not only imposes additional restrictive measures, but reduces the burden on households and businesses, so that the vast majority of taxpayers see a significant reduction in the burden and an increase in the available income. The 2020 budget triggers the launch of a virtuous cycle of economic progress for the coming years. A cycle characterised by dynamic growth, increasing employment and the availability of income for all citizens without any exception, while respecting the objectives set forth and promoting social cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard specifically to the sport sector in our country, I would like to mention the following: 'Sport for All' or 'Massistan Athletics', as it has been, is our priority and our policies focus on strengthening the institution. This year, for the first time, the "Sport for All" programmes began in time. For the first time, the programmes have been implemented since October and not since Christmas, which started in previous years. We are implementing five thousand programs, where there are thousands of two hundred Physical Education graduates involved - keep this number - more than a hundred thousand fellow citizens. And, of course, we attach particular importance to roaming sport, which we very much see penetrating throughout society every day. At the same time, we are completing the implementation process for the period 2020-2021 of the new organisational framework for the implementation of 'Sport for All' programmes, which covers the sporting needs of most citizens, of course by strengthening transparency, dignity, efficiency and evaluation. Our programmes for sport include policies to support professional, but also yes, competitive sport. We are going on, ladies and gentlemen, with steady, measured, but above all decisive steps in supporting high-performance athletes and, of course, improving sport law, emphasising transparency, dealing with mismanagement and, of course, eliminating violence. We have already started to implement a system of evaluation of sports federations, with merit and transparency at all times. We attach particular importance to transparency and respect for taxpayers' money, we carry out checks on the sound management of money, but also on the reimbursement of grants to our supervised bodies on the basis of objective criteria and data through the innovative evaluation system called 'HALS', which we announced a long time ago and which will be working for the first time with the new year. The innovative, but also innovative, evaluation system “CHIOLS” with fully measurable data captures data for the full activities of all federations, all Olympics and not all. It is being implemented in the basic principles of the Council of Europe for better governance in sport. It in practice strengthens the values of modern sport culture, i.e. morality, participatoryness and good governance after transparency and, of course, accountability. At the same time, we are institutionally strengthening and supporting the mission and work of the National Doping, the ETUC, with more than two years' delay. Here too, the responsibilities of the previous government are extremely great. We have launched the procedures for compliance, with the comments and proposals of the World Antidopting Organization, WADA. The Presidential Decree on the new organization of the EEC is under way, where it is upgraded to an organization and services are upgraded toward athletes. At the same time, we set up a Scientific Committee to support his work. We proceeded with the process of transferring the lab to the 'Presidency Crisis', while the procedures for purchasing the necessary equipment for the uninterrupted operation of the ESSAN laboratory of EUR 2 million are moving forward. It is our political priority to support pure sport against the modern scourge of enhanced over-performance. We also develop the Prolympic Efficiency Support Programme or in common, the adoption of athletes and sports. It is a campaign that aims to inspire and sensitize companies, clubs, bodies, but, of course, and simple citizens, simple fans, so that everyone and everyone, in their way, can help to prepare athletes and sports on the road to claim and qualify for the Olympic Games in Tokyo, where to date twenty-three athletes have ensured their participation. We are implementing a programme for the modernisation, maintenance and energy upgrading of sports infrastructures, which will make a significant contribution to the drastic reduction in the operating costs of their infrastructures, as well as to the protection of the environment. We continue and expand, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, the "Philodimos II" programme and so far, over a period of just four months, we have completed an additional 50 million projects. And the job goes on. Here you will allow me to thank the Minister for the Interior publicly, Mr Theodorikos, but, of course, also the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Livano. As far as the implementation of the budget for 2019 is concerned, it is worth pointing out that it is implemented with absolute piety and high levels of absorption for all the programmes that we are running. It should be noted that our main aim is to absorb even more money from the Public Investment Programme for 2020 for the benefit of sports infrastructure and, by extension, society. And here I have to thank Mr. Dogs publicly. In this direction we have taken a series of initiatives on sports infrastructure and, of course, their upgrading. Only since July 2019, we have so far absorbed 1.8 million of the EDP. At the same time, we have covered the budget as a whole for "Sports for All" projects in collaboration with the municipalities, while we have paid the money to federations of sports and especially to federations of Olympic Sports for their preparation ahead of the Olympic year coming. At the same time, we are strengthening the work in the field of sport and we are dealing with the problems of subsistence in cooperation with the relevant Ministry - and I thank the Minister of Labour, Mr Brutsis, for the cooperation we have - and with all the supervised persons of the General Secretariat of Sports after a programme, which is under way with the OAED for the employment of thirty-nine people of different specialties at the National Sports Centres, as well as thirty-five trainers throughout Greece. And I would like to emphasise here the cooperation we have had with the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, and, of course, the Deputy Minister, Mr Apostolos Vesyropoulos, the previous period for two very important provisions made by the state. I am referring to the provision to reduce the tax on contracted professional athletes from 45% to 22% and to increase the discount rate for donations or sponsorships for sports amateur clubs. We are thus linking society, the local and the largest businesses, the amateur associations and we offer the opportunity to help from the private initiative, which currently needs their support. The 20% discount on the donation tax gives impetus, motivation and in practice enhances amateur sport. It brings the tens of thousands of unions and the forty-eight sports federations of our country even closer to the citizens, but it gives them the power and the possibility, of course, to operate in conditions of economic viability, without, of course, relying exclusively on the state grant. It also enables them to develop their activities, deepen their athletes and eventually return as added value to society. With this decision, ladies and gentlemen, we are implementing a request of many thousands of years of amateur sports clubs, to note only that amateur football clubs are about four and a half thousand in our country. As for reducing taxation on professional sport contracts, we are sure that it will work beneficially to increasing competition between Greek groups, but also with other European groups, making them more flexible in acquiring athletes even greater performance. And that was a reasonable request for all professional athletes, as well as for all OEMs and OEMs in our country. These two initiatives confirm once again what we have said from the outset, that for us the athlete is a priority and, of course, meeting his needs. Additional innovation for the Ministry of Sport - 2020 - is the pilot implementation of the budget programme, where we link our actions to specific objectives, but also measurable results. In particular, this programme emphasises three key areas for sport and concerns amateur and professional sport, sports infrastructure and ‘Sport for all’. The total amount of the budget for these programmes is 53.7 million and their correct implementation ensures the integrity, transparency and more efficient use of the Greek taxpayer's money. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I think that no one can deny today's reality, a reality that is optimistic, but above all hopeful. In addition, all political forces have a say and a responsibility towards the future of our country. The recent adoption of the law on the involvement of revenues was a leading demonstration of this. I believe that we must all move in this direction. I call on all parties to vote in favour of the budget that we have for debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Minister. The reason for twelve minutes is the parliamentary representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Mylonakis and Mr. Koutsoubas from New Democracy is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u311	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would begin today with the great 'hearted' of Adonian Georgiadis, the Minister of Development - and then explain to you who is his great 'love' - but I do not see the Minister of Citizen Protection here, Mr Chrysochoidis, who has already surprised us all. I don't understand. You want to kill yourself in New Democracy? SYRIZA's political fraud was paid. Don't you understand that fairy tales aren't going through anymore? With one question Mr. Voutsey made him lose his senses and what he wanted to say. What came here to tell us? For police brutality? What violence? Against the anarcholic laundry that throws molotovs at each other and now they're making molotovs with nails and they're launching and they can kill a man? Unless they don't know what a molotov is. I cannot understand Mr Chrysochide's apology, and I would like to ask him, of course. He also said about illegal immigration and what they've achieved. What have you done, gentlemen? You haven't done anything. You built a wire of five miles [5 km] and the rest of the wire that was eighteen kilometers [18 km] down by hundreds every day by Evros was broken down. Four plans, Mr Chrysochide, have changed so far. And Mr. Voutsis is right. The Prime Minister has also displaced you and put Mr. Gerapetritis in the final state to do the job and with Mr. Undersecretary of Defense, Mr. Stefani. Last Saturday - and I would like to ask him, but he has suddenly left, under the man who is moving the strings many times, Mr Constantine of Antarctic, a demonstration of Pakistani. They closed down to Athens and came down to the Constitution of thousands of Pakistanis. Where did they get permission from? He said he'd bring a framework law and the roads won't be easy to close. Where did the Pakistani people get permission from? What was their request? Some person says he cursed Muhammad. Whose person has cursed Muhammad, nobody knows. They found a way to gather people and see their power. And you accept that, gentlemen of the New Democracy, gentlemen of the Government. We now go to the "loved" Minister for Development, Mr. Adoni Georgiadis, who will listen to me now. I have before me the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA", today's card: "Lord Love with Fuchtel". He loves the Germans, Mr. Georgiadis. "The Germans have saved us and now they must refresh the fruits." What do you think? We loved each other, but we didn't, Mr. Georgiades! I didn't understand that thing. What have the Germans done in Greece, namely, so that we can understand? The Germans have a surplus in the current account balance, which exceeds or is close to 8%. Any country like Greece overcoming the 3% deficit in the budget is punished. While, here, we have a surplus of over 6%, as internationally anticipated, in the current account balance, nobody speaks. The Germans came and took OTE, a profitable business, the country's telecommunications. Watch what's going on. We are now saying that we have a problem with the Turks. We don't have our own telecommunications. They came and took the airports, took "Eleftherios Venizelos". Winner. FRAPORT received the fourteen regional airports. Only profitable. Minister, the profitables have been taken. You said it before he became Minister. I've been watching you. The Germans have recently sent the Ministry of Foreign Affairs a letter seeking it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - to 'do not talk again about German allowances'. Do you hear, gentlemen of SYRIZA? Recently - you know - the Germans have sent a letter to you not to'speak again, we do not agree to talk again about German allowances, we do not owe you anything'. The Germans have now given the submarine "214", the submarine that makes the difference, ladies and gentlemen, in the Aegean Sea, the submarine that we made with our own money. The first submarine '214' of the four you know very well, we did it and now they gave it for coproduction in Turkey. That's the Germans! These Germans love Adonis Georgiadis and he's in love with Fuchelle! Yes, sir. I told you you weren't going well. You thought you became government and you'd stay in government. The Greek people are punishing. His political fraud was paid for by SYRIZA. Watch why yours is coming. You were talking about the Prespecies Agreement. Nothing. Halima's fairy tale! You were talking about the Aegean, that Erdogan and Tsipras are not doing well, and we will lose half the Aegean, and now the Prime Minister himself said a few days ago that there will be any differences in the maritime zones. Where's Mr. Courides? And today Mr. Catherides said on TV. He said we shouldn't want it all 100% of ours. What do you think? Do you want to give it up right now? We'll give it to you, gentlemen of the New Democracy! Congratulations! Let's go to the budget. We live in a different country. The hui we have to try to make things look good, to tell society and ourselves, above all, we don't cut it off. The 2020 budget is based on the same logic as the previous Memorandum, with overestimates and too great predictions. He's neither a developmentist, ladies and gentlemen, nor a socialist. He's a hard neoliberal. That's what you need to make up your mind. Why? I will just say: how many taxes did we pay last year for 2019? We paid some 46.4 billion. How many are registered for 2020? 47.2 billion, i.e. 800 million more taxes. Am I wrong? If I am wrong, go out and tell me: 'You are wrong'. But that's not the way it is. Natural persons, i.e. families, small professionals, private employees, civil servants, will pay 323 million, Minister, higher taxes. The only ones who will have a tax exemption -400, about, million - are business and business. And that's because of 28% went to 24% and dividends to 5%. That's it. You have not kept your promises and your promises of election, except for a minimum, which you have also taken ready, to tell him right. We'll be honest. SYRIZA and HNPIA were ready, they were just pre-election, they didn't catch up, I don't know what happened and you guys dropped it at the table. That is the truth, and we must be honest. You're making fun of the world. And you have now given the poor, because there is no middle-class, and the middle-class have become poor. So to the absolutely poor, in poverty, you are giving a little allowance. Where's the tax advance? 100% tax advance. Didn't you say what SYRIZA's doing are crimes? So why do you not now abolish the advance tax or at least reduce it by a reasonable percentage and say 95%? Who are you kidding? Don't do it at all, if we're gonna make fun of each other. 5% reduction. Of 100%, i.e. a tax advance, it will pay 95%. That's a mock! Didn't you keep yelling about the NSA? The ECHR was a allowance received by too many poor people, the low pensioners. It was humiliation. But they had 100, 200, 300, 400 euros and it was a breath. SYRIZA cut it. What did you do? 'Nothing we did, we left it as it is', you say, 'but we reduced taxes'. Okay. Twenty-nine were taxes, however, I want to remind you, and twenty-nine remained.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u312	Twenty-eight. One we've done away with.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u313	Okay, twenty-eight. One was abolished at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u314	They've been left in the old text. They haven't made update yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u315	He wouldn't be abolished. He would have left him the same. You don't understand, Mr. Alexiadis. It's the policy of the memorials. Didn't you realize that you and New Democracy are more memorable? You're together. Together! Primary surplus of 3.5%. Weren't you yelling? Aren't you killed in this room? I was outside watching you and saying, "The New Democracy is going to abolish it? Do you think he'll go to negotiate in 3.5% of the surplus?" What's to negotiate? '3.5% and we. Let's not take it off. We will talk' - it says -'slower'. With regard to pensioners' retrospectives, what have been judged as unconstitutional, have you written them in the budget to give them back? Oh, no. He said that the Minister of Finance spoke before - I followed him - 'we will see it from the beginning of the year'. When will you see it? With what budget? It's all "will"! What kind of tampering you guys are. We said the Syrians were the ultimate liars. So are you going to be? This thing can't be fooling people all the time. It is now explained, ladies and gentlemen, because your budget has been accepted by the Commission. He's undeniably anti-developmental. Where's Adonis Georgiadis? "Buldzos in Greek". If you see a bulldozer in the Greek, you'll pierce my nose. What kind of bulldozer in the Greek? You know what's going on? He went to the international forum there in Capital in the United States, New York, and the president and CEO - not only to him, but also to the Minister of State, Mr. Staikoura - said to him: 'What is going on in Greece? The ‘HARD ROCK’ at the casino. We want to make casinos and they kicked us out." Because the legal advisers that advise the Gaming Committee, this committee that chooses who will take over the casino, were also consultants of the competing company, which is a competing American company, is with Peristeris' GEK TERNA. I also said: "How would the Pender get through it like this? Would he make the job well?" You're looking at me, Minister, but that's what they say. And they will go to the European courts and the CEO says that "with what is going to happen and we do not want it, but what happened in Greece is without precedent. We are in seventy-six countries and we are involved in such joint ventures." He will discredit Greece and no investor will come. And so far the investors have come. I'm not going to talk about the 35% cut-off heating allowance.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u316	Since when?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u317	The 35% less heating allowance, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u318	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u319	You don't? Take a good look at it. But let me just say a few words about the Ministry of Defence. 11.86% of the budget for 2020. 2019 was 13.23%. So less for the defense. To finance the 15.98% of the ordinary budget, while 2019 was 16.16%. Even less for the defense! They're really numbers. If we go now to the Committee on Equipment, it is 450 million from the Public Investment Programme to become the equipment. Is that possible? Because I've been following her for years, it's 3.3 billion, of which 2,850 are for wages. What are you talking about? Where's the equipment coming from? Do you know what's going to happen to 2020? Where? I would like to say a few words about the Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr Placiotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u320	You need to finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u321	Mr Placiotakis, I would like to ask: there were EUR 313 million written, and now the budget is EUR 130 million. About 213 million are missing. I think you should tell us why these were not registered, because they are already agreed to give these things, but they are not in writing. Tell us about it. I would also like to talk about health, but to finish, what we say is that the 2020 budget is a tax budget for the Greek citizen. You must understand, ladies and gentlemen, that there are people behind the numbers and, unfortunately, you do not understand that. We will vote against this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Koutsoubas from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u323	I would first reply to my previous colleague, a parliamentary representative, because he is obviously weak on the issue of German allowances, in which I was the legal representative of the inhabitants of the Ditomos, who I issued the decision with other colleagues, he obviously forgot that yesterday the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, said: 'Our claims are active and desirable'. Also, the President of the Republic three to four days ago said that: 'Our claims against the German state are active and desirable'. To close this issue. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a top political act, in the last year, of the budget vote, which is a top parliamentary procedure. The fact is that every year we - the government in question - are asking you to vote for it, you too - will vote against it. However, I do not remember after the post-population, because I do not want to go any further, whether my memory is cheating on me - no government has fallen because it has voted against its budget. What I am going to ask you to do, however, - because I do not hope to convince you to vote on it, I did not go up to the Step, nor expect anything different - is, in the new year, to exercise your institutional role, a creative opposition to a difficult period in which the country is going through. I'm coming to the budget now. I will not go into his details. The experts were reported. Other Ministers will then be mentioned. I'm just going to give the political message or account, which you used to say, of Officer Opposition. What does this budget mean? What's the political message he leaves? It actually marks a radical shift in economic policy towards growth and employment, and the creation of conditions to cover the investment and development gap is reflected. Is there any doubt in this Chamber that we had a vacuum of development and investment? I think not. You said it yourself from the opposition, and we said it when we were opposition. With commitment to budgetary and reform objectives, with the aid of the improved economic climate, we are creating those prospects for a prosperous society. Are we going to do this? That's the question. I'm addressing the government. We don't have the right to fail. We have to try. That's what I'm saying to you. And we'll do it. Because during this period of our government service, we have shown examples of writing, operation and action in another way that Greek society has accepted. We have made all the commitments - once again weak the memory of the President - because we have done the most, which could only have done and re-approved the Greek people's vote and be a government again. So we gave signs of writing and go to the future optimistic. The question again is: did we do a lot? No, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple that we are. We didn't do much. We still have a lot to do, because we need to create a prosperous society, a state that prospers, in order for every citizen to enjoy, to be the prefect of this prosperity. We haven't done that yet. And it is not just the general ones, what we did with the reduction of HPAI, the capital controls - why we need to remind ourselves of these, that what we have said we have done - the tax bill, asylum, debt arrangements, important things for Greek society. We need to focus particularly on regional ones as well. And I'll stand here. I must say this because I have always asked the government to do this - what is the Agricultural University doing in Athens, gentlemen of the Government, to do here? I am addressing my own government. I said it before, since 2007, and all the time. What does the Agricultural University have to do in Athens? Aren't we going to connect it to the Kopida? And how is it possible then to talk about a reduction in production costs when I come from Kopaida, others say about Thessaly, obviously - since I was a student - we have been talking about Kopaid, we have been irrigating in Kopaid and we have now arrived, what I have been saying 'I was a youth and an old man', and I have not seen Kopaida yet? By the responsibility of all of us, not just yours. And ours too. Watch it. I therefore think that the government should create a rural development plan with structures, otherwise our children will lose, farmers will not be left and we will be asked for jobs in offices and you will put the civil servants who will not be able to or will not have what areas to absorb them. With these few thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, by calling on the government to work in this direction, I am voting in favour of the budget and I would like to believe that at the end of next year I will be pleased that you will have made the commitments because the budget will succeed. I wish me a Merry Christmas and a good year.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u324	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport has the floor now, Mr. Kefaloniann.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, next year's budget puts the foundations for dealing with one of the greatest problems of Greek society and economy in recent years, namely the problem of growth and economic voids, particularly investment, which unfortunately keeps our country stable in the last position of the European Union in terms of investment and in the first place in terms of the unemployment rate. After five years, a different economic strategy is finally reflected in these days, which, in a clear way, makes it clear that prosperity will return to the country when investment, foreign and domestic, is mobilised and will create new jobs in the country. For the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport this strategy is translated into three main objectives: Firstly, the removal of obstacles to economic activity in the transport sector. Secondly, the protection of the environment and sustainable development, particularly in the urban landscape. And thirdly, the improvement of the services provided to citizens at all levels of the transport project. Unfortunately, the SYRIZA government coming back, I could say that it was not at all interested in the transport sector, as it either did not deal with the issues that were terminating or adopting draft laws, but in a distorting, non-functional and ultimately at the expense of the citizen. On the contrary, from the very beginning, I would say from the first month of governance, we have given a different stigma and, above all, we have given a characteristic example of how we can overcome basic practical obstacles to the daily lives of the citizen. For example, I am referring to driving licences where more than five thousand of our fellow citizens in the summer were trapped and could not issue their licence and, of course, they were professionals who needed the professional diploma to work in Greece or abroad, and we managed to end this hostage from the first few weeks. We abolished the mandatory review of the renewal of drivers' diplomas for those who have completed the age of 74 and put an end to the suffering of these fellow citizens. Secondary medical committees were set up to examine the candidates over 80 and mainly reduced the value of the offence for each visit to the doctor. In fact, as we are committed and will also be within the timeframe, by March, we will have presented a new institutional framework for driving licences, which will be functional, transparent and, above all, citizen-friendly, the professional instructor and the employee of both the Ministry and the Region. In cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance, we proceed to simplify and digitise administrative procedures for driving licences, while implementing the decongestion and back office operation of the Ministry and the Transport Administrations of the country. Until then, we have aspire to give a fierce blow to corruption with the institution of temporary driving licence, with which the successful candidate will immediately get his licence, putting an end to a wait which often lasts for up to five months. In fact, the relevant provisions are in the bill which is currently under consultation and which will be discussed and voted on in January. The second characteristic example of the previous government's legislative uncertainty was the non-incorporation of Directive 2016/2370, which should have been incorporated as early as December, as well as Directives 2016/797 and 2016/798, which should have been incorporated since June. Unfortunately, our country was charged with infringements of these omissions by the European Commission. We have moved, ladies and gentlemen, very quickly. We voted in favour of the Fourth Rail Package in October, which included, among other things, the liberalisation of the passenger transport market and the interoperability of the networks and, in fact, we prevented the imposition of fines by the European Union. A third legislative initiative was a few days ago, with which we ratified the agreement with Serbia on mutual recognition of diplomas, which has been pending since July 2017. In July 2019, material and personnel elements in the media transfer of Athens and Thessaloniki were unfortunately devastated: deficits in spare parts, deficiencies in critical specialities, old fleet. A scheduled competition for buses in Athens and Thessaloniki, which went down to the Procedural Appeals Authority. Within six months dozens of vehicles were repaired, empty driver shifts were covered, empty, deleted and repainted, and the frequency for metro and electric increased by half a minute. As a ministry, of course, we do not set great targets, but we are on the basis that every day, every week, and a little better, it is precisely so that the citizen can have services that meet a good level of life. In the next six months, we will adopt and proceed to urban transport initiatives, including the possibility of paying the urban transport cost by debiting or credit card, the possibility of renewing and paying the computer through the OSCE website and NFC-based mobile phones. We are launching a direct campaign to reduce the use of the paper ticket, informing the public about the possibility of rechargering, and aiming at reducing the costs of the OSCE, which in fact only reach 5 million for the supply of paper. And of course, until then, we intend to reopen 20 more publications, increasing their number to 40. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus on an event that has taken place today. Because we have all been aware that for five hours in essence a million and a half of our fellow citizens who use the metro and electricity for their everyday lives have been hostages of a minority of trade unionists, which decided yesterday to proceed to a job stop. And you know what the reason was? I want all Greek citizens to hear him. The reason is because we reinstated 21 administrative officials, mainly inactive, back to publishing so that our fellow citizens can enjoy this kind of service. Why do we go to many metro stations and whether they are closed to publishing stations or possibly there is a damage to machines and the public cannot be served. And since this decision was taken, some people today decided to shut down the subway for five hours. Let me say, for example, that central stations such as "University", "Evangelism" and "Magara of Music" currently do not have publishers. We therefore have a duty to the passenger public to move towards improving the quality of service to our fellow citizens, and we will do so even if it means that some will unravel. However, the most orgynistic thing is that today, while some people have announced and made this strike, we actually did not have any participation at all. I will only tell you that from the club - and I will put it out in the Minutes - which announced the strike, the job position, of the 486 people on the shift were only 25, 5%. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] And worse than the whole of the thousand-seven-seven-seven shift, twenty-five, i.e. 2%, participated. Today, twenty - five people kept Athens closed up for the public transport, the subway, for five hours. This situation, ladies and gentlemen, is not going to continue. We're not gonna put up with it. That is why the Prime Minister today has announced initiatives on this legislative initiative, precisely so that we are not against such situations.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u326	Are you going to change something legislative?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u327	I say this, in fact, by expressing a complaint, because, from the very beginning, Mr Karamanlis, as well as myself, we have worked to approve the collective agreement on working with workers in the public transport sector, when the former left-wing government has for months been engaging them, saying that it has been signed and, in fact, it did not post it. So we signed it. We proceeded with the collective labour agreement, and yet, unfortunately, we have had this behaviour today. Already, the collective agreement is being implemented and with the very good cooperation with Mr. Skylakakis. However, I repeat that minority trade unionists today have led us to have this image in public transport, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u328	There's gonna be legislation, I guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u329	I said about the legislation that the Prime Minister has announced on such occasions, so that there can be a shift, that is, there can be workers who can operate the means and not be hostages of small minorities. I repeat once again that twenty-five people have kept Athens closed for five hours on public transport! Ladies and gentlemen, the next three months in the House will proceed to a series of legislative initiatives. In January, the draft law will be submitted to Parliament, which is already in consultation on the authorisation for the establishment and operation of the waters. It is the fruit of a painful effort over the last three months to simplify an inappropriate institutional framework that had been voted on by the previous government and had not gone through the adoption of the regulations precisely in order to be able to operate this framework. In this way we will create the conditions to fly waterplanes to Greece again, as had happened many years ago. Therefore, the development of the hydroplanes flight network, we believe, is appropriate and fully advisable to Greece's geography. We expect that it will offer a great many and important contribution to the economy, to tourism and to the communication of the mainland with island and coastal regions, particularly in employment. It will, however, offer a great deal even in emergencies, for example in the fire-fighting and transport of patients. The objective for 2020 is to become the first hydroplane flights after 15 years, since of course the relevant investment interest is also apparent. Series will take the provisions for a clean landscape in urban and suburban transport, as is our obligation under Community law, by adopting competitive procedures to guarantee the provision of high quality public long-term and urban transport at the lowest cost. The institutional framework redesigning the organisation and operation of the long-term and urban transport networks will be ready by February 2020. Sustainable urban mobility projects are also a priority for the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Since the beginning of the new year, the new institutional framework for the development of these actions will also be presented, as will the subject of the institutional framework for microcirculation, a grid of instruments that has entered into our daily lives and has come to remain. By March, the new national road safety strategy will have come to Parliament, with the establishment of a strategic plan for road safety and the legal commitment of the state to implement it, to design support administrative structures and to assess the financial resources needed to strengthen road safety, to modernise the available training material for traffic, to review the process of attesting and monitoring the infringements of the road traffic code and to revise ineffective provisions of the same code. Ladies and gentlemen, the pursuits for the new year are intertwined by the well-being of our efforts on the issues that we have started to face, particularly those of everyday life, but also by the implementation of new public policies that we are planning at the Ministry of Transport and Infrastructure. The area of responsibility includes many and complex items, which are already making progress in the daily lives of our fellow citizens, but we know that even more work is needed, even more burdens, in order to achieve the desired result. With the appropriate effort, therefore, and the cooperation of all, we are sure that we will achieve this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u330	Thank you very much, too. Now Mr. Janakopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, a classic - in the narrow sense of the term "classical" - philosophical methodology initiated by Cad in the "Christian of pure speech", was used after Hegel in the "Phenomonology of the Spirit", as well as in the "Great logic" and was inspired by Marx in "Kefalion", is obsessed criticism. According to this methodology, a way - not the only one - to make valid criticism is not to introduce into one reason or any practice, criteria from outside that reason or that practice or, otherwise, to criticise by starting from the allegations of the very reason we judge or the subject who makes the allegations and pointing to the contradictions. I therefore claim that it would be extremely fun to do this both for the New Democracy budget and for the overall policy of the New Democracy, to compare the New Democracy's speech today with the criteria and objectives that she set herself before the elections. I would like to begin with a typical reference to the budget in relation to the surplus. Let me tell you that for the superstate, there has been a lot of talk before the elections. We explained that it was not a privatization fund, but on the contrary it was a fund to exploit public property. On the New Democracy side, there has been an outrageous criticism of the anti-patriotic character of the super-periphery. On this decision today in the budget all the opposition tactics of the New Democracy - or a large part of it - were said to have become a pillar of the development of the Greek economy. I could continue with the issue of primary surpluses and the disastrous option to reduce the primary surpluses from the 4.5% that you agreed in 2012 and implemented this policy in 2012, 2013 and 2014 and to reduce them first to 0.05%, then to 0.55% in 2017 and then to 2018 and 2022 to be left at 3.5%, when you agreed to a 4.5% primary surplus by 2031. What, then, did you say about the primary surpluses? You said that with these primary surpluses it is not possible to achieve growth rates such as would allow the Greek economy to create conditions of social cohesion, etc. At a time when we give you the option, with our proposal, of reducing the primary surpluses to 2.5 billion, using the enclosed account of EUR 5.5 billion, you choose, instead of going ahead with this reduction in the primary surplus that would provide additional financial space, to keep the primary surplus at 3.5%. I could continue with the middle class, for example, which will see its total income being burdened, because while its tax and insurance relief will be EUR 17, we have to take into account it - insurance relief does not exist in fact - increases in PPC, reductions in allowances and a series of other policies included in the budget. We could go further and compare the opposition speech of the New Democracy, the Prespecies Agreement, for example, with what it is implementing today as a government, because it tells us that it has to honour the Prespecies Agreement and that this is the way to enable there to be stable Balkans. These are statements by your Foreign Ministers, your own government. We could also say a lot of things about the Greek, where bulldozers would be in the first week, then bulldozers would be in September, then bulldozers would be in the end of 2019, now they'll be in the middle of 2020 and say. All this would be extremely fun if it were not at the same time dangerous, because they show the absolute political unreliability of the New Democracy. But where things become even more dangerous, it is not when the New Democracy is unreliable. Where things become even more dangerous is when the New Democracy is reliable and loyal to its principles and ideological directions. And it becomes dangerous for workers, for the people's classes, for the professions, for small and medium-sized enterprises, because what is the basic assumption of the budget that we have in front of us today? That the way to ensure growth, based on the same assumptions in this budget, is, firstly, by reducing taxation, but beware not of small and medium-sized enterprises, not of employees, not of retired people, but of a very small part of large business groups and of course of course by reducing the wages you are seeking, you do not confess. In particular, for taxation you are using about EUR 600 million, i.e. 60% of the total financial area, to reduce 2.5% of the Greek enterprises. Do you understand what that means? It means that 600 million will go to 2.5% of all businesses and the rest of the eight hundred thousand businesses will not see any relief, based on your own budget and on the available data for the Greek infrastructure, while there is an alternative! And you know what the alternative is? The alternative is to go ahead with reductions in the fee for small and medium-sized enterprises and free trade, reduce the solidarity levy, reduce overdepreciation. But it is narrow ideologically, nuclearally, a factor of your perception that by reducing a very small business base and business groups growth will be by magic. With regard to - very quickly - wages, whatever option you have made, it leads to a reduction in wages: the abolition of collective bargaining, your refusal to increase the minimum wage for 2020, the abolition of the legitimate reason for dismissal, the abolition of the protection of contract workers. So you also lead the situation back to the destructive 2012, deep in the core of the second memorandum, in the policies that led the country to the deepest recession. And beyond the socially detrimental nature of this policy, you are not taking into account - the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman has told you - that this policy is completely ineffective, because you think that this policy will succeed, when anywhere in the world it has been implemented - including Greece - that has not produced any economic success. At the moment, for thirty years now, investment across the Western world has been falling, inequality is rising, productivity-related wages are either lying or falling, which means that it is not possible to think that for some unexplained reason that it has failed throughout the world and in Greece until 2014 it is possible to succeed at this time. And we will see this and unfortunately also the popular strata or those parts of the populace, which have chosen to support the New Democracy. I say, and we also claim that we must compare a policy of redistribution, a policy of increasing wages, a policy of targeted tax relief for the reorientation of the productive model in the green economy, innovation and quality and a social state support policy. None of this guarantees that the budget proposed today by the New Democracy Government, and that is why it is our duty to vote against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u332	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u333	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u334	Here, Minister, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u335	I listened carefully to Mr. Janakopoulos I really wonder how much fun it would be to use Cad's obsessed criticism, with your arguments, in the program for example of Thessaloniki, in the abolition by a law and an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u336	Elections took place in September!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u337	And then there were elections! You won elections with the parallel program...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u338	Elections took place in September!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u339	Mr. Janakopoulos, I understand you're upset. You don't have to show it. The Greek people are watching us. I'm not making any criticisms. The same criticism as your arguments I make and I know that hurts you. You won the election on a parallel schedule. Where'd he go? In a parallel universe. That's what they saw. So it would be very fun to have this kind of debate if it were not really dangerous for the Greek people, who paid billions of this deception, which you cheated on so many times, one after another. But here we have even worse. You are critical, first of all, why we are not using these 5.5 billion people you are talking about. You can't understand that you can't borrow from the one you owe, so you can put it in the bag and undo it. You can't borrow 5.5 billion from the IMF to pay off the IMF with these 5.5 billion dollars. These are very basic things. If you don't understand it, it's a shame. As you can also not understand that the superstition can also make money for the budget and at the same time be a pledge to those who owe the ESS for ninety years. It's both that might happen. So - and I will close with this - Kant in the 'Christian of the practical word' is ending by saying that two things are admiring him as much as he thinks about them: the land of the uranium out there and inside it is the moral code. I fear that if he lived today and rewrited the "Critical of the Practice Word", he would add two more: SYRIZA's inability to understand basic economic concepts and your will to pervert the truth all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-seven students and students and two educational sessions from the 1st General High School Argos (Second Chamber). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I shall now give the floor to the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Placiotakis, for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u341	Madam President, let us also speak to the Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u342	Let's go one, Mr. Colleague, so we can make it. I don't blame you, and you know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u343	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate and vote on the 2020 budget marks the beginning of a new, better period for Greek women, Greeks, for Greece, for a period of steady upwards of new important growth investments for all, restoration of the middle class, strengthening the social state. Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the government, in just five months, have shown an absolute consistency in our election commitments, systematic employment with everyday life, efficiency in tax reliefs and measures that support citizens, rapid progress in changes and reforms that are necessary for our country. The budget figures themselves prove everything I mentioned, but they also ensure that the Greek economy's course for 2020 is even more positive, consistently in all areas, to solve problems, to improve the quality of life of citizens, to offer more opportunities for all Greeks and all Greeks. The Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is involved with all its powers in this great effort. I would remind you in summary: We approved within a period of time a record, just three months, the new revised master plan of PPA SA at the port of Piraeus and an investment of 610,000,000 euros. After many years of delay, it begins a very important investment for the city of Piraeus, but also for our national economy as a whole, making the port of Piraeus the first port in the Mediterranean and one of the top ports in Europe. The implementation of the investment plan at the Port Authority of Thessaloniki is also under way. A few days ago I signed the implementation of very important projects, in particular, thirty-four, in small and large ports in the country, totalling EUR 4,400,000. Last Friday, after we had secured the necessary funding - I would remind you that, now, the funding of the barren lines is made by the Public Investment Programme - we have approved eighteen new, remote, barren lines that create a new powerful grid of simple links both in the north-east and south-eastern Aegean. For the first time, Thessaloniki will connect coastline with the northeastern Aegean and Crete with the Dodecanese, serving tens of thousands of islanders, as well as strengthening local economies. We are strengthening the Port House with instruments and equipment so that it can make its huge and so important a mission. Today the Port House has two hundred bows and six hundred five land-based patrol and surveillance facilities. Immediately there will be an additional fifty new floating media and another two hundred eighty-seven new vehicles of different types and apostles. Of course, I would also like to add that, within less than two months, we have activated the Centre for the Training of Commercial Maritime Executives in Macedonia, which has remained inactive for years, thus resolving a serious problem of our seafarers in northern Greece. In time - also a record, we fully restored the building infrastructure of the Academy of Masters of the Academy of Merchant Navy in Aspropyrgos, which had suffered extensive damage. Of course, we have also done so with the assistance of the Greek Shipowners' Union, which I would also like to point out, that it strengthens - and will strengthen - the Port House with ten floating operational instruments, making a decisive contribution to strengthening the role of our port. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I go through the integrated planning of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, let me refer to specific figures so that we can all see the size of the great Greek shipping industry in this Chamber. The Greek-owned commercial fleet has about five thousand ships of different categories, with a total capacity of 400,000,000 dead Weight. This is 21% of the world's maritime capacity and 53% of the European Union's corresponding capacity for transport. The whole of Greece-based companies offering direct employment to more than 16 thousand Greek seafarers are the driving force for the whole shipping complex, directly and indirectly, by employing more than two hundred thousand people, while the shipping exchange that entered the country during 2018 from the activity of about four thousand thirty shipping companies was of the order of 16,600,000 euros. On this point, of course, I would like to add the enormous strategic importance of shipping for our national economy and Greek society. We saw it when the Prime Minister of the country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis visited China and specifically the Shanghai report, when the President of the People's Republic of China visited Athens. We saw it a few days ago at the General Assembly of the International Maritime Organisation, but also, of course, in a series of contacts we had in New York, where we presented the new investment opportunities and opportunities now available to Greece. I want to tell you two specific figures, so we can all figure out how important the Greeks' shipping is. When over the last fifteen years only in the Chinese shipyards have been built over a thousand ships with a budget of 64,000,000 dollars, when the Greek fleet is carrying about 30% of US oil imports and 22% of US exports, it is perceived as the vast strategic importance of the great Greek merchant shipping. We are used to saying that our shipping is one of the most powerful pillars of our country's national economy along with tourism. So when a state has such a powerful weapon, what does it have to do? Obviously, an integrated strategic design creating a modern investment environment for shipping and paramilitary activities. Madam President, the Ministry of Maritime and Island Policy has developed five key pillars for 2020: First of all, in the first pillar of shipping and maritime education, we promote integrated interventions to strengthen and modernise the Greek register. We are stepping up with a holistic approach to the issues of public maritime education. Our high priority is to strengthen the shipping of the Greeks. In Greece today, the maritime profession must again be a professional choice and a way out for a traditional maritime nation, such as Greece, at a time when shipping is changing significantly, at a time when environmental regulations, new regulatory frameworks, automations, we need quality officers and, of course, quality lower crews. We are also creating new tools for training and training the country's maritime potential. We are broadening the possibilities for private maritime education, as all modern shipping states do. We are preparing a special programme to register a series of new professions in modern maritime work, with a view to effectively covering gaps and overlap, which are very often found today in the maritime and maritime working environment. And of course, we are strengthening maritime diplomacy. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] In the ports sector we are planning and implementing a national port policy. We believe that our ports are indeed "machines" of development at local, regional and national level. Following the approval of the master plan at the port of Piraeus, we have a common objective to continue the expansion of investment in the fields of container handling, of course, in conditions of agreement and agreement with local communities. On the other hand, with regard to the exploitation of the country's ten major regional ports, we already have the first results of the sustainability studies we have requested from the TEAD. Of course, we are making international competitions in 2020 to exploit the ten major regional ports in our country. In the maritime sector, we are ensuring an effective maritime transport system in order to enhance the sense of security of residents, social cohesion on the islands and economic development on the islands, and that is why, following the announcement of the eighteen new bourgeois lines, the second phase is taking place very soon. In the field of marine tourism Greece, with the characteristics of an enchanting polynesia, is considered by many to be the Meka of maritime tourism. What are we going to do in 2020? We are planning to adopt a modern, simple, legislative framework, open seas for all, with rules and respect for national and Community law. Greece can and must become the center of global yachting. We will, of course, also work with the Ministry of Tourism to create new marinas. In the field of island policy, the main axis of the initiatives for our Ministry is the country to acquire an integrated strategy for the development of the "Blue" economy in the island area. Within the first quarter of 2020, we will present the national programme for integrated maritime policy in the island area. We are setting realistic targets, specific priorities, and we are committed to specific resources for this purpose. A structural element for us is the reconstruction of the purpose, but also the functioning of the National Island Policy Council. We have already committed ourselves to streamlining the application of Law 4551/2018 on the equivalent of transport. We are dealing with the manoeuvres of the previous government, and we are reintroducing the normality of implementing the measure with a development mark and not a bonus policy. Because many triumphant comments have been heard about the application of the transport equivalent, do you want me to tell you how much absorption will be at the end of 2019? Just 10%. We support the island businessman and resident with targeted support, tailored to the productive model of each island economy, while, in cooperation with the relevant ministries, we are planning two new financial instruments that will focus on island entrepreneurship and on promoting targeted public investment in the cyclical economy. Because there have been many concerns in this Chamber, both as to whether we have secured the financing of transport equivalents and the financing of the barren lines, I would like to make it clear that we have provided for the necessary funds. In particular, for 2020 through the Public Investment Programme we have ensured EUR 130 million for barren lines, EUR 40 million more than was planned last year, and EUR 170 million for the transport equivalent. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a decisive factor in the presence and much more for the development of the Greek shipping industry was, is, is, and will be, the Port House, which will be the hundred years this year. The Port Authority ensures the legality and fights any illegal act at sea. It guarantees the safety of shipping, contributes to maintaining national sovereignty by monitoring and safeguarding our country's maritime borders, saves lives - often in very difficult conditions - with research and rescue operations and protects the marine environment by controlling compliance with environmental legislation. The representatives of the Port House are attempting with knowledge, courage, determination and sensitivity, and that is why they are achieving their goals. It is therefore a duty and responsibility for all of us to do our utmost to ensure that we do not only maintain but also strengthen the high operational capacity of the representatives of the Port Authority, but also, of course, increase the organic power of this House. That is why we are currently working so as not to lose one euro from the Port House armament programme. A large EUR 200 million programme is currently under way, and the new programme planned for the new programming period will exceed EUR 400 million. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the choice of Mr Mitsotakis, the choice of government, the choice of the political leadership of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy is not to be content with a harmless crossing, as our predecessors have done. We are determined to move on to deep areas. We are determined to implement reforms at all levels. We are determined to create a modern operating framework in which the whole maritime industry will grow even more in the years ahead. Those who know shipping understand that this is not only possible, but also necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zebblelis from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes the debate on the budget turns into an irrational theatre, and so today those who "wrapped a paper" society and imposed surpluses on it until 2060, those who succumbed the assets of the Greek State for ninety years. Indeed, the GOI is a pillar for the simple reason that it has all the revenues of the public property. All the public property was transferred to the HIDED, but it does not justify those who turned HIDE into a pillar for ninety years and left everything, the playground, the archaeological sites, and even the Sniper of Cesarean. Because for the surpluses it is important who created them and who opened the way for them, to say that in the last year for the small surpluses since 2017, the target was agreed at 1.75% of GDP and finally reached the astronomical 4.18%, i.e. an excess of 4 billion, whole, more than the institutions needed. Therefore, they are the ones that opened the way for the excesses, and today they have the courage and face to come here, to parade and to brag. As far as the issue of the budget is concerned, I will only confine myself to the issue of investments with an emphasis on the EIP, because I believe that deinvestment has evolved into a greater problem than that of the budgetary debt, and above all because a'seminar' has also been preceded by Mr Tsakalotos on how we attract investment in Greece. In this respect, the government has moved rapidly with a number of flagrant legislative initiatives, but it is not just its reform plan. It is that it forms a philosophical climate every day, building the country's credibility. However, attracting private investment requires a systematic, persistent and especially long-term effort to regain its lost prestige. In this mid-term, especially after a grim period of recession and disinvestment, public investment expenditure can bring about rapid growth and modernisation of infrastructure, which also has a positive impact on employment. After all, the major projects of the development infrastructure carried out during the period of conversion throughout the territory, which have reformed and transformed Greece into a modern European state, bear the stamp of our prolongation indelibly. Today, again, we have to bear the burden of reconstructing the country after a catastrophic term in the area of infrastructure and public investment. It is very important that one of the first initiatives of the new government within the framework of the development plan was to establish rules for the training and management of the national part of the ILO. The National Development Plan provides for the ‘pre-enlargement’ and hierarchy according to the efficiency of the projects, as well as their control over the NRP standards, so that projects financed from national resources are not lost in the ‘black hole’ of opaque management and rousfetological distribution. In the first budget of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is a strategic option, but also a challenge, the full implementation of the Public Investment Programme of EUR 6.75 billion for 2020, because it does not have the primary importance of the amount that it subscribes, but what is finally being implemented. This will make a decisive contribution to the fact that the monthly allocation of the EIP will now be forward and that funding will not be cumulated in the last month of the year. This will also accelerate the absorption of funding from European programmes. However, the most important fact is that for the first time the gains from bonds held by central European banks, amounting to EUR 5.1 billion, will be directed towards investment and development purposes. In fact, the first works, such as the Northern Axis of Crete, are already being heard, because the hierarchy requires that the roads that favour development be preceded, but above all they shield road safety. A similar project for Central Greece and Evia is the road to the Chalkida bypass that constitutes an extension of the PATHE national axis. It is a work perfectly mature and fully ready for tender, already from the beginning of 2017. Unfortunately, however, there were other options. What if we were to constantly pay the heavy price of losing human lives on the bloodiest street on the ground. It is indicative that that year, in 2017 that the project was mature, from the EUR 6,750 million for the PPP, was absorbed EUR 5,950 million, i.e. they accounted for EUR 800 million. Where'd that money go? We said it at first, overcrowding. What if the Commission was hitting the warning bell on the tragic effects on development from the under-utilisation of public expenditure? Indeed, at the same time that the government had overruns due to the cut in the programme and the imposition of undue taxes, it was not even able to defer the government’s dues to private individuals. It was therefore the strategic choice of the previous government, the precursor bed with the artificial under-utilisation of public investment, and that was the most heavy tax paid by the Greek society, the tax on the projects which were not carried out, the growth tax. Because, of course, the issue is ideological, and there were some hints before, which businessman would choose Greece, when the product of the overcrowd was to become a paper-on-election promises and benefits, and especially what businessman would believe a Prime Minister who shared the same vision of development with Jeremy Corbin? In fact, he also had him as a model for the reconstruction of SYRIZA, this unexplained type of Marxist dream, which proposed nationalisations and re-statements at the 2020 threshold. Of course, the crash of Corbin is also your strategic defeat, because the ideals have again been defeated in Europe...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u346	Johnson?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u347	We never said like a party: 'Do it like Johnson's. We didn't say so. You said: "Do it like Corbin" and say that a pilot to SYRIZA's development and reconstruction is Corbin. Where'd the pilot go? Where did he fly? The bird flew and lost, but anyway. So it is the crush and the ideas of a backward left that has been defeated. The forces of state-owned entrepreneurship have again been defeated. Of course, our difference with Great Britain and the rest of Europe is that left-wing populist parties have failed to become government anywhere other than our country. This is precisely the country's accident, because today many tables and charts were tabled. I will table a table in which Greece appears to have been in investment worldwide, to see both the proposals and the seminar by Mr. Tsakalotou. Greece is right above Guinea-Bissau and Somalia. Indeed Guinea-Bissau also had an increase of 3.1%. We had a reduction of 1.8%, so next year we would also have had Guinea-Bissau. We'd only stay with Somalia. So we all understand the struggle that Kyriakos Mitsotakis makes, this huge international effort with investment cycles, not to appear as competitors of Zimbabwe and Somalia, but to reconstitute the country abroad. Meet another Greece, the one of confidence, credibility and certainty. Greece, which is also reflected in the budget in question, which we very much vote in favour of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u348	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u349	Madam President, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u350	You're welcome. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u351	We do not often want to make use of the possibility for the parliamentary representative to take the floor and answer what is being heard. We are doing so in the interests of respect for Parliament and, above all, in order to allow a substantial debate to take place. However, when some positions go beyond a certain limit and go beyond the limit for issues related to national symbols, such as the Cesarean Shooter, we want to take intervention and get back to order and call on the one whom he said here, to correct it. The Cesarean Shooter with a law brought by the government of SYRIZA and disagreements from that side, as the Proceeds of the Parliament reveal, were given to the Municipality of Cesarean and then there were locations from this side that disagreed. With a government Alexis Tsipras at a big concert with Christos Liontis, this whole process took place, and recently the judicial process, the process and the problem of this matter ended, so it has been finalized. Use any other political argument you have, other national symbols and places of historical memory, such as the Cesarean Sniper, let's leave them in the historical memory so that we don't scratch wounds of modern history.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u352	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u353	Madam President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u354	You're welcome, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u355	Mr Alexiadis, I gave as Minister of Education the Cesarean Sniper, which belonged to my Ministry in 2007. Neither you nor anyone else! I made the concession through the U.S.S.S.A. with my own approval. The rest is flammable.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u356	Mr. Psychoyer, you have the floor and immediately after the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u357	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will start out of the budget to comment on some of the positions taken. First I heard Mr Chryssohoid once again using the expression 'we will cleanse the cities', something that turns us into the dark - in my opinion - 2012-2014, in the Samara - Venizelos period, which was characterised for the country by similar expressions, corresponding rhetoric and practices. But from whom do we clean up the cities? Should we clean up the cities from the refugees and immigrants who are trying to survive? Even tourists were arrested at the time. Shall we clean them up from the seropositive women who have been crossed? To clean up the towns from the microprocessors up to 800 euros of the insurance funds that were dragged into the police stations, or to clean up from the young people who return from their school, such as the twenty-year-old who was arrested and humiliated in the past few days or for the children who are trying to hold a general meeting at their universities? To terrorize young people? Who should we clean them up from? Do we clean up serious crime? Yes, of them to clean them up, as the SYRIZA government in Exarches did with continuous operations and results. Not to say 'we'll clean up the cities' and mean what happened in 2012-2014 and condemned the country at European and international level. I also heard that there is nowhere else on the left government. You are probably not familiar with the case of Portugal, Mr Colleague, where the left-wing and socialist parties stand there, as well as Spain, and we keep going. So don't rush to draw conclusions and finish history, because it's dynamic and it's evolving. Social injustices fuel developments. Now let's go to the budget. A budget shall reflect policy and priorities pursued. The state must be a mechanism which sets a protective framework for the weak and which cares for the needs of many. For us, it is a budget that, behind economic indicators, there are people. People with need, people who have suffered disproportionate burdens in the years of the crisis and recession and who have entrusted the current government, are disappointed. Faithful in its neoliberal ideal, New Democracy gives a lot of few and very little to many, although it had room for doing better. The middle social strata, which the Prime Minister and New Democracy officials were supposed to be at the forefront of their policy, have now become aware that they have nothing special to expect from this government. Already in a few days' time, the tax bill, which has been passed recently, will be implemented for 2020. These tax reliefs mainly relate to the strong and the richest. All low and middle layers do not gain almost any of the benefits of exit and sacrifices required within the memorials. However, even these very few of you are giving, you are taking them back through the increases in electricity, through the insurance contributions - where the classes we have abolished - and of course with 30% of the electronic proof that it is very difficult to concentrate. You'll see it in practice too, unfortunately. The Government follows the same neoliberal recipe that led the country to the period of the memorandum and bankruptcy. For this reason, you must also be a little measured, ladies and gentlemen, when you come to criticise the SYRIZA, who has received the country really bankrupt, with empty funds and comes to hand it over to a housewife, without eliminating all injustices, but with a clear improved fiscal picture and a social situation. Of course, all the positive measures you are voting on are measures of SYRIZA, measures of our Government which it negotiated with the institutions and which it has implemented and which it has prepared to proceed with. In a total of 1,18 billion positive measures, an increase in spending on the social state is directed only 123 million, 400 million less allowances for the disabled, children, rent and school meals, things that - together with the social dividend, where seven out of eight in 2018 took it, will not take now - because they bump the middle-class, while they create the framework and the grid for supporting small and medium-sized strata. So for us social welfare, education, health and labour rights are prerequisites for growth. It is not something that the most powerful are being strengthened. It is a framework for growth and growth, because growth rates have been achieved in recent years, through this social mobility, Minister. Of course, when we see that the real minimum wage increase is not being achieved, collective agreements are being set up, workers are being made redundant from the banks, while the OAS programmes are being set up by 20% in the budget, you can see where we are driving for unemployment, but also for the administration of key services. It is therefore clear that anything other than social and development is your budget. However, instead of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, most of them go to the big ones, and this has an impact both on the fact that they are not returning to the market, but on the fact that the 90% level of life of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are people with few workers and families, is not being strengthened. You could do away with the solidarity levy for incomes up to EUR 20,000, which we had planned, to make a significant reduction in the advance tax with 50% instead of 100% - these are measures that will really alleviate - the abolition or even a significant reduction in the trade fee, but also VAT from 13% to 10%. I'm going quickly to the refugee - migration. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a critical area. It is a complex issue, a complex issue to which you have completely failed. There is neither government planning, at European level we have been rejected for the legislative and administrative framework, but also by the European institutions, as well as in local societies - which you have poisoned all previous years, when the SYRIZA government has made policies on housing and integration - they are, fortunately, against it, not the majority of them. So instead of continuing the decongestion of the islands, which we have done, you now have over forty thousand people trapped in the islands and those who are transporting inland, they go not into decent structures, but into informal structures of the Corinth or Kilkis type. Internationalisation of the matter. Instead of taking advantage of a path of relocation, which has been implemented, the family reunifications and the European countries of the south, you are turning it into a bilateral with Turkey. It's wrong. You are also integrating AMKA for access to health services - which will also raise a question of general health immunity - but of course also in education, where within the budget the funds given by us for 12 and a half thousand children in schools are not entered. So we say this. You have allocated very specific funds in the budget for the Secretariat-General for Migration Policy, the Asylum Service, which is almost the same as we have, which is a confession that our project was in the right direction. But you come to pick up a whole project which had focused both on housing, on reception and on the integration of refugees and immigrants. I would also like to end, Madam President, by congratulating the national coordinator, whom you set up with powers and responsibilities, which go beyond what we used to be, what is envisaged. Will the national coordinator approve the establishment and operation of open and closed structures, by way of derogation from any institutional and administrative provision, and will he, if necessary, give orders to the relevant ministries or to the Security Body? I heard Mr. Plakatakis. Mr. Placiotakis, will you accept the decision of the National Coordinator on matters relating to your competence? They are very critical questions. So, since the European Union rejected your plan for closed structures and does not finance it, you go to the national budget - while you said that SYRIZA is using national funds, but made use of European funding - and you get from there to implement a project which - apart from breaking rights - is also ineffective. In any case, we will be here to help our forces again to bring solidarity towards exclusion and hatred. You, with your budget and economic policy, are targeting specific vulnerable groups and a social majority, including authoritarianism to implement them. But society has understood what is happening. It will prevent the eruption and spreading into which you go and through its struggles and claims, it will win back the individual and social rights, which we have also granted, but more has to be done. We are voting against the budget and we will be at the forefront of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u358	The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, Mr Karathanasopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Madam President. It really wants both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Transport to launch a full-on attack on the metro workers. And we are saying that they are trying to transfer the enormous problems that exist in urban transport, the backs of workers, to problems which have to do with the policy followed by both the previous governments and the current government. Is it true, Prime Minister, that it is the workers who, on the basis of the metro organisational chart, are there a shortage of hundreds of drivers, technicians and line workers? Is it the metro workers who, over 50% of trains, remain immobilized due to a lack of spare parts? Is it the workers who combined a few trains with a shortage of workers has led to a very large reduction in the number of trains? Of course, you do not go by subway or by buses to know the conditions prevailing in peak hours. Even wood falls for who first gets into the trains. And it's the workers' fault for this thing? Are you serious now that people are inconvenienced and you've turned the subway trains into sardines? You should be ashamed of the situation that prevails both in Athens and Thessaloniki with urban transport. But why are you moving on to this? For social automation. Of course you have the help of the Change Movement. What's the focus? At the heart is the right to strike. That's what you want to fight. That's what you're thinking. Because there are shortages on the subway, workers are strikers. It's the delay workers' fault. You're moving on to redundancies in the banks, a bank strike. It is the workers who strike and shut down the banks and trouble the public. Go ahead to five thousand redundancies, voluntary exits to PPC, the workers will strike. It's the workers who will trouble the public. It is your policy that exacerbates the problems that leads to these unacceptable conditions in transport, where everyday life is completely different, because there you see the real humiliation of human personality. And with a lot of nerve you attacked the strikers. Besides, it is no accident that you are trying to cover up your anti-popular policy in every way and the state budget for 2020 is the mirror of this anti-popular policy. Of course, will you tell me, is this something different from the previous one, 2019? No, it is not different, its philosophy itself, its content, because it is implementing the memorial commitments, it implements the bloody primary surpluses of 3.5%, it implements the medium-term budgetary strategy programme 2019-2022 adopted by the SYRIZA Government. Therefore, there is no change in policy and the burdens are borne on the citizens' backs, as SYRIZA loaded them. You are also redistributing, as SYRIZA did when it was government, from the least rich to the richest, that is, you get it from the people - to say it more simply - to give it to business groups and capitalists. You don't do anything different, and SYRIZA did that, and that's why there's this picture with overtaxation, a reduction in the standard of living of the people's strata. So the next day you claim to be a day of social prosperity and development for all is really the greatest lie that can be said. That is what your own policy confirms. What measures have you taken for the next day? Pick up some indicatives: Development law. What are you doing with the developer? You are giving new tax advantages and incentives to business groups. Who pays these tax and development incentives? The people pay. To shield what? The competitiveness of business groups and their profitability, and that is why they will invest. From this point of view, you continued ready plans that the previous government of SYRIZA had in its drawer and joined the development law. Let's go to tax: speed up the pace the SYRIZA government had decided. As far as business taxation is concerned, SYRIZA said a gradual reduction, you abruptly made it. With regard to the reduction of undistributed profits this redistribution from where did it come from? You're saying the overrun. Who paid for the surplus? The people. Who were you baxing on? Businesses and businesses, in other words, finance taxpayers, tax mortgages, the profits of business groups and the logic of becoming richer. Let's go to the plan 'HERAKLIS'. You took the pre-process from SYRIZA and brought her into effect. What do you want to shield? The interests of the banks. At the expense of whom will it be? Whether the taxpayers or the highly indebted households where the seizures and auctions of the first home will rapidly increase. In energy one gives the dog and one embroidery and the other sew. This is also the case by the previous government, and with the logic of liberation and liberation, where we will have energy dependency on imported fuel, natural gas - and that was the transitional fuel to which SYRIZA was referring - and this, of course, is all marked by the escalation of the attack on workers. Let's go to PPC: Dismissals and five thousand new entrants without labour rights outside state contracts. Are these the new best jobs you want to create? Of course, we will have expensive electricity for the people, because green energy has an expensive power for the people. How will the rodents of green energy finance? That is why there is extensive energy poverty. So, the office you are projecting, that the investments will bring new and better jobs into disguise the reality itself. We told you the example - and we repeat it - in tourism, where there workers should have lived in golden spoons, if things were as you say. We also told you the example of your own policy in PPC for new entrants, which, in your legislative work, no better jobs are created, but worse jobs. We also told you about the development law with the exceptions of state contracts in the name of company protection. So your anti-grassroots policy and the measures you take against workers go hand in hand - by hitting rights. Capitalist growth to be shielded leads to the intensity of the exploitation of workers. Is this term necessary to have capitalist growth and an indicator, which does not exactly reflect reality, says it all: How much do you say the average wage for 2020 will increase? You say 1.2% and GDP 2.8%. Don't you think? Isn't the lair growing? More and less of the pie goes to the workers. You will tell me that this was the result of 2019, because also in the 2019 budget, SYRIZA predicted an increase in the average salary of 1.4% with an increase in GDP of 2.5%. You're not even original in this one. This intensity of workers' exploitation will be accompanied by the government's next measures, with insurance. The Katrugalo Insurance Act practically crushed the social character of the insurance. You take this one step further through the capitalisation system, where pensions will be reduced even further, the working time will be increased, but also the participation of workers in meeting their insurance needs will be increased, in the logic of reducing non-wage costs, as the BSE requires, in order to shield competitiveness. And not only that, you are escalating the attack against trade union rights. SYRIZA established the payroll lock out, SYRIZA established measure 50% plus one to declare the strikes, i.e. against the strikes, and you are now coming and bring the next step, the electronic file, the union and the trade union, control by the urban state and employers' and trade unions. This policy is shaping the stress of authoritarianism, which is a characteristic feature of the urban state, an authoritarianism that is related not only to the forces of repression and how they deal with the workers and all the young people and all those who claim, the farmers, the self-employed, the young women. After all, we had a similar logic in the past. The pensioners with MATs and tear gas were faced by SYRIZA, the apprenticeships were well kept and the farmhouses and today, and you are still moving a step further and with the legal framework and with the justice that makes the strikes illegal and abusive, above all, by the authoritarianism of the employer. Before I finish, I should like to refer to the intervention of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. He made some references and asked a correct question: Why, at global level, did we have poor results in terms of development? Why is there a downward trend in investment in old capital at international level? However, Mr Chakalotos did not answer his question, namely what is the reason why he is, because he is completely out of the Marxist theory. The answer is characteristic. It is the over-accumulated funds, these funds that do not find a way out, which they glean. These over-accumulated funds that are not invested, precisely because there is no high profit rate, lead to stagnation and deceleration. This overcompensation of capital leads to the exacerbation of the contradictions over whose funds will first be destroyed? This is how we have the trade war between the United States and China, primarily and also the European Union. We have the technological war with the 5G, whether it's the United States or China that'll have the upper hand. In all this we have these developments, and that is why there is a response that says about the Green New Deal - that is the answer given by Mr Tsakalots - that will come out of this dead end. So, what's Mr. Chakalotos turned into? In a fake, and even progressive cloak, the official policy of the European Union's wolf alliance on the Energy Green Agreement decided by the Council three days ago. Why is the European Union doing this? Because it wants to respond to the energy dependence it has on fossil fuels from either Russia or the United States and because it has technological leadership in the field of renewable sources. From this point of view, there are huge funds that will be invested in green infrastructure, green energy, clean energy. Why would these funds be invested? Because they will ensure profit for the capitalists, they will ensure a much cheaper workforce. That is why profits and cheap labour will be the next day, and that is why the controversy about benefits, namely who gave more or less benefits, so that people learn to have reduced demands, not to claim to satisfy their needs, but to be at ease with benefits, so that the wealth produced in ever less and less hands can be accumulated. And that's what's happening globally. So either we have and will accept the logic of imperialist peace with the pistol on the people's side, or we will accept the imperialist war, which actually leads to the same result. With the latest developments in Greek-Turkey, this renowned national bondage, which the other parties share, is nothing but the clandestineness of the people in the one-way imperialist planning, a one-way which is at the expense of the people themselves, but also the sovereign rights of the country. Does this so-called national consensus reproduce the dangerous dilemma, the false dilemma: compromise or military involvement? In this respect, we say that both the people are lost. That is why the anti-imperialist struggle of the peoples against the plans of NATO, the Americans and the European Union in the region must be stepped up. So, then, the progressive front that Mr. Tsakalotos wants and invited us, subsides it under the flags of the bourgeoisie for geostrategic upgrading of the country and increasingly engages in anti-imperialist designs. It is subjected to the logic of the non-worldist national strategy, that is, under the flags of the Americans, NATO and Israel. SYRIZA was the signifier of this policy and design. However, this has nothing to do with the needs of the working class and the rest of the populace layers. The front of the social forces should be subversive. The focus should be on satisfying all the modern folk needs. That is why it must also be anti-capitalist. Because capitalism has social inequalities in its dna, it has in its dna the sacrifices of satisfying popular needs on the altar of capitalist profitability. At the bottom of the line, workers can be employed and there will be, as they have been in the past, no employers. Employers, however, cannot exist without workers, because employers are fed by the sweat of the workers and by this sweat they are rich. So social ownership in the means of production and infrastructure, central scientific planning, is the answer to sectoral imbalances and regional disparities, but above all to economic growth, which at its heart will satisfy popular needs rather than capitalist profitability. This means releasing from the wolf alliances, overthrowing the bourgeois state, overthrowing power, to pass through the bourgeois order into the hands of the working class and the popular strata. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Khiridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Madam President. We are discussing the 2020 budget today at the expense of unacceptable and provocative actions and statements by Turkey. Let me make an initial comment on this issue, which is also linked to the budget. Beyond the constant Turkish claims, it seems that we are dealing with a growing Turkish reform of an authoritarian leader, who is taking advantage of the confusion in the international system, whether in the Middle East or in the United States, or in Europe, to discuss, as he says, history in the light of the hundred-year old founding of the Turkish Republic and the Lausanne Treaty in 2023 and to make his country the great power in the Eastern Mediterranean. In addition to the direct initiatives taken and already having tangible results, the Greek Government sees the wider issue of deterrence. This must always be in our minds, the national deterrent. There is no national deterrent without economic power. And economic power also brings the proposed budget, which provides for a much larger growth than we used to in previous years, to 2.8%. Before I enter the budget, my comment on Turkish is that it does not mean that neither reassurance and amnesty are allowed, nor nationalist exploitation and patriotism. And I am addressing all the wings of this House, especially, if you would like, because of a previous comment on me in the Greek Solution and remind you that patriocapilia has always been the refuge of every small-political fraud. If you want to have the talk about Turkey and the strategy, we must make it seriously and responsibly. The 2020 budget strengthens economic growth, as I said before, at 2.8%. It is true that all previous budgets for the last four years had fallen out on the issue of development. They had growth about half of what they anticipated. What characterized the four-year-old SYRIZA was the over-performance in finance with the great surpluses and under-performance in growth as a result of the tight reindeer, the short kiln that was imposed upon us after the destruction and tragedy of 2015 and the elimination of all traces of confidence towards the Greek economy. The paradox of governance SYRIZA - one of the many - was that: He was elected to overthrow austerity and ultimately with overcrowding and under-efficiency of growth, intensified it and imposed more brutal austerity. At a rate of 1.4% that you inherited us in the first quarter of 2019, which is the last clean quarter of SYRIZA before the European elections and the recovery of the confidence that New Democracy's victory brought, we would need at least fifteen years to return to 2008. We would, in other words, be hovering for about twenty-five years. We must avoid that, we must not fall into this trap. That is what this budget is trying to do. SYRIZA, in order to overcome the criticism he has made for his four years, finds refuge in 2009 and constantly mentions the responsibilities of the old political world, which are undeniable. There is no doubt that those who ruled before 2009 have great responsibilities. But, to be fair and honest, there have been many times, several voices, by the so-called old political world that warned and insisted on another course. I don't remember any such voice coming from SYRIZA. On the contrary, SYRIZA and his political forefathers worked until 2009, not as a force of stirring up, but as a force of speeding up financial derailment. For every one of the former ones, you asked for ten euros. So it's at least hypocritical and misleading to accuse the old political world of bankruptcy by taking out your own responsibilities for the course. And I am not referring to the various members you have taken from the old political system, who are today blaming themselves, accusing the old political system and all that hypocrisy. Then you made a second big leap to logic, merged between 2009 and 2015. To make it clear, the country suffered a sharp drop from 2009 to 2013. Since 2013, it has been dragging off with a GDP of around 180 billion. The spring, which was so compressed between 2009 and 2013, appeared to be ejected forward in 2014, returning to growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u362	Is that an ejection?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u363	Let me remind you, Mr Tsipras, that in 2013 we had -8% and then plus 0.7%. That's eight units. If eight units are not ejected, what is it? To be exact 8.7%.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u364	Please don't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u365	So you come back and compress the spring again, and since then we've been surfing at these anemical rhythms. The rise in the power of the New Democracy has already added at least 0.5% to the growth rate of the country. It is about psychology, it is about measures to alleviate taxation, it is about the pro-investment climate that we want and we are constantly cultivating. I'm closing, Madam President. The main, major, is investment. There can be no growth without investment. Let me remind the Greek Solution and the others that in Turkey we have 300 billion investments per year when in Greece we have barely 23 billion. Under one/10. The year 2018 has been a disaster for investments. SYRIZA's friends are making a third big leap of logic, constantly referring to foreign investments that were actually increased in 2018, mainly due to "FRAPORT" and other foreign investments which, as opposition, had fought. But total investment, which is important, has been reduced. They were reduced to the lowest level post-war and are the lowest in Europe. So from 13% and 12% of GDP we have to go to 20% and 22%. We need investments. Since private savings in our country - investment equals savings - is negative and remains negative, the only source of capital is foreign savings, i.e. foreign investment. That is where we must concentrate to make our country more attractive to these foreign investments, without which growth cannot come. There, apart from tax measures and all that that is reflected in the budget, we need large areas and reforms in a number of areas such as education. The fourth industrial revolution comes and your response to the challenges was that you will establish the fourth legal framework. This was the big issue of Greek higher education and instead of how it will adapt to the artificial intelligence and the enormous technological changes that are coming. How to create fourth legal framework to serve the micro-political, micro-topic interests there. Another area is justice and a great reform to accelerate it. Because without legal certainty and quick liquidation of the outstandings no major investor is going to come. The budget is a step. It is not the complete solution of the Greek problem. It is a step in the right direction and we shall vote in this spirit tomorrow night. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u366	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that from the top Western theories they are attending our meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and toured in the exhibition of the "ELEIGERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-five students and students and three teachers from the 1st Grade Argostoli. The House welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u367	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u368	You're welcome. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u369	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to address the dear Mr. Cairides, who is a professor of international relations at the Panteion University. In the morning, Mr. Cairides, on the radio "SCAI" you said that Greece cannot demand 100% under International Law. Isn't that what you said? That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u370	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u371	So that's what I said. If you, now, believe that the voice of the reasoning of the Greek Solution is associated with a patriocapathy, you are wrong. You're a professor, too. Secondly, you can explain to us whether you are a government rabbit and you go out and you have a precedent in this provocative way. Thirdly, you will tell us whether you agree with the Prime Minister, who said, a few days ago, that we are'surely going to sit down and discuss any problems in the maritime zone'. That's what the Prime Minister said. So, why do you say that patriocapilia has been the refuge of every political small-timer and you show the Greek Solution? Does that work for you? If it's okay for you to tell us. You need to know that the weather has arrived, Mr. Courides. And every political con on his bench will sit.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u372	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u373	I will only give you the floor for a minute, Mr Courides, because we need to continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u374	Madam President, since I have never said what my colleague Mr Mylonakis said, I would ask him to withdraw it otherwise he will be a lousy liar. Maybe it's not the first time. What I said on SKAI's radio, Paul Chima, is that Greece wants a solution to the Greek-Turkish dispute on the basis of international law, that is exactly the opposite of what he said. Take the transcript, bring it and file it in the Minutes. I know exactly what I'm saying, Mr. Mylonakis. Don't insist on why you're being exposed. And you're being exposed when you make this guy's criticism of Mr. Mitsotakis. You're not the patriots and we traitors. Let's stop this game. You got out in the House, you get the payroll. Enough of the slander and mud. You did it by election. Let us not continue with them now, and let us remain in the spirit of the great threat and challenge facing the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u375	...(not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u376	You're very welcome. We have to finish the debate here. If you have anything essential to say, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u377	Mr. Papastasis, KIC MEP, here he is. I was in the armaments committee today. It was you, too. He said it there. I ask him now: 'Do you confirm that?' He's confirming it. So, Mr. Courides, I'm not the one who gets out of my mind and my belly.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u378	Take the transcript and leave the "I said" and "he said". Take the transcript. Revocation?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u379	No, I don't. If that's true, I'm not withdrawing. I believe Mr. Papastasis who says so.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u380	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u381	If it's not true, I'm withdrawing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u382	Let the others go. You're a liar if you don't call it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u383	Ladies and gentlemen, you are making a proposal. Mr. Courides, you're making a suggestion. Mr Mylonakis, because he is a good parliamentarian, what you said he will check it out and will do so accordingly. The conversation's over here. Mr. Tsipras has the floor. Immediately afterwards, Mr. Papathanases, State Secretary for Development and Investment, will speak for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u384	Thank you. I didn't understand the last clean quarter of SYRIZA, which was the first, only. Whose second is it? Until now, since 7 July, after all the economic achievements, from our economic policy, you are fruiting them. Eat from the ready and present them as yours. Are you gonna eat us now and the second quarter? There is a central question on the budget. The central question is whether there is a plan of Mitsotakis Government and what is that. It's not that simple. 4% development that you promised beforehand is not a plan because it will simply not come and why your leadership has never believed it. It was an election deception. When Mr Mitsotakis a few days before the elections on 7 July claimed that the 15th pension would only be granted if they took 4% growth, it is clear that he was referring to 2020 and not to another year in the future. You are trying today that the economy took off almost once the Mitsotakis government took over and that in the first half of 2019 it was a record of growth for the first six months, since 2007. This is dedicated to the previous speaker. It is worth wondering why you only anticipate 2.8% for 2020. But that's still not confirmed by any evidence. It's just that 4% was deception. The Commission's latest report on 2020 and 2021 shows a stagnation for the Eurozone. Greece shows a fall for 2021. I'm telling you there won't be any fall. 4% how does it turn out? Could there be a placement by the next speaker perhaps? What if the target of 4% is still there for when it is? For this life? For the next life? What evidence? Otherwise, it's deception. You said you wanted to lighten the middle class. For small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of the Greek economy has not brought a single measure. This is reflected in the GFCM's positions, and it's the most staggering proof that you cared for the small and medium-sized ones you've never had, never had, nor had. The tax incentives for holding companies, the reduction in the taxation of dividends of investment firms, companies that invest in real estate, real estate funds, portfolio investment companies and offshore are probably not for small and medium-sized enterprises and mainly have a zero growth footprint. The reduction in corporate tax from 28% to 24% concerns vastly a few hundred large businesses and will only benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. This is not even the case for the "both with the basilica" and the pot. Tax on natural persons: For employees and pensioners, tax reliefs were crumbs and compared to our own commitments in May are a burden. I challenge you whenever you want to compare them. It should be noted that a section of employees and retired persons is a part, in any case, of the middle class. And for self-employed people tax relief it will be seen in the tax statements of 2021, which is about two years from now. By then they already see, and will see much more charges in 2020 with PPC's tariffs, increased minimum contributions of EUR 420 for the poorest 85% of the insured, 22% tax for those who do not get 30% in electronic transactions, cut social benefits, cancel the increase in the minimum wage, which you yourself committed, beyond us, and everything else you bring up to 2021. But now, for 2019 and 2020, they will be charged. So what's the big picture? The big picture is that the tax reliefs in 65% concern businesses and the remaining some 400 million concern households. Of this 65% of business relief, the vast majority concerns very few. 95% of all enterprises account for only 1/10 of the total relief and vice versa 5% of the most profitable enterprises account for 9/10 of the relief. That's your policy. At the same time, the way the HERAKLIS project is being implemented, with no obligations on the part of the banks, without your commitment to the first place, without transparency, will come a storm of first home auctions and liquidation for about fifty thousand businesses, most of them small and medium-sized businesses. Another great relief for the middle class. Conclusions first, then: 4% growth, as well as alleviating the middle class, were election slogans of deception. The only objective without any serious development planning was to alleviate the upper class, the richest, the largest properties, the largest businesses. Only if you said that in election, you'd be taking the 2040 election. Below. You plan to sell what is sold, what can be sold. You will sell PPC, natural gas and electricity networks and you will sell a lot more you are not telling us, because otherwise the 2.5 billion you have budgeted for privatisations that are 400% higher than the 2019 budget. You have not realised that the trend internationally over the last few decades, especially in the area of the networks, and especially in terms of energy, is by - privatization. The doctrine of the Government of Adoni Georgiadis is expressly the "We sell everything, because so that growth". This is your whole development bill. Just yesterday, Mr. Georgiadis argued that one thing must be clear to everyone, that you will privatise the ports, all the ports. Is there a financial model that you copy or is it like that and whatever it is? 87% of ports in Europe are under public control or management, and you propose to privatise them all. There is one question: Or the rest of Europe is hostile to development, or the Mitsotakis Government is the most unresolved and dangerous government of Postpopulation. And in this particular case, the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, must take a position. Is the Minister of Economy his position too? Is he gonna privatize all the ports? It has been such populism over the past few years and so much of the lies that have been said about a number of issues, from the destruction of the economy and the fourth Memorandum, to the negotiation of the Prespecies Agreement that you themselves are victims of these lies. It happens to those who lie. Sometime they start to believe them. With the refugee, after you had told us what you were telling us all over the previous period, you came and froze our own design, without having another one of your designs, considering rather because it's because it's you doing better. And in a few months, you screw up. You have shown a great lightness and the same lightness you are showing today about the economy. And this step has been said many of your MPs are tourism and building. You are equating to your development bill industry to tourism, you are creating a bubble in the building at the same time as freezing infrastructure and these days majority MPs have argued that the lever for development is building. And you're serious about that and you're insisting. Well, building as a steam engine of the Greek economy was one of the many pathogens and distortions of the Greek economy, distortions that led us to the very deep crisis that we experienced. Evidently for the government of Mitsotakis Greece will enter the fourth industrial revolution with tourism and construction. This is the whole plan, and you seem to have noticed nothing about what caused the deep crisis in Greece and not to have bothered you at all. Totally impeccable. To conclude, secondly: All development planning is exhausted in tourism and construction, in the "sales for sale", ports, islands - islands, said Mr.Georgiadis - networks, remove bureaucratic obstacles by removing the Regulatory Framework for the Protection of the Environment and Work Relations, do the favours of anyone who calls for it and restore all the pathogens, together with the customer state. This is your development. You promised better paid jobs. It was one of the central election slogans. Where are the best paid jobs? Two of the legislations you have brought, two of the legislations you have brought, for PPC, new entrants will enter out of collective agreement and with the multiplier, you allow any company that will invoke financial problems to come out of government contracts. These both in just Greek means payroll to the minimum wage and you have brought nothing else to do with it. At the same time, you base the budget on 2.8% by a large majority in an almost glossy increase in private consumption. This is why even BSE is judging you. If you were to say in an election that your plan is to compress wages at the beginning, that would bring growth and growth in another four years and in another life to re-create job demand and that would increase wages, you have just deceived once again. As the ideal of neoliberalism has been disproved worldwide, not only here.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u385	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u386	I'm done. One more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u387	No, you don't have one more minute because you're already in nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u388	They support all government officials in dance that only the rise of the Mitsotakis government in things has created better conditions for the economy. You are telling us three arguments: what the foreign press says, what polls say, and what building permits are being raised. That's real. Of the three, the first two are not even an economic indicator.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u389	The interest rates.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u390	Yeah, all right. The interest rates were down beforehand. Your account is not presumed by any indicator beyond the building. On the contrary, the forecasts of international organizations for the Greek economy from spring to autumn have changed to the worst.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u391	Mr. Comrade, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u392	To get you 2.8% growth is predicted by 13.4% investment growth, so that you have 1.6% GDP footprint. When investment in the Eurozone is projected to be suppressed for 2020 to 2%. You're probably Houdini! And it is not based on this provision anywhere but a possible, as you consider it, surprise the construction or sale of public property that is not even going to pay back in 2020. In general, in the budget you have troubled indicators, you have overestimated the revenues and underestimated the reliefs you have made and even BSE is being sanitized for you. He says BSE: "The budget for the year is planned to increase investment in fixed assets by 8.8%...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u393	Mr. Comrade... Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u394	Give me ten seconds...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u395	Mr. Comrade, allow me. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please, you've all spoken a lot more than time, though. Today you've all been over two minutes. But...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u396	I'm done. One last sentence...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u397	You're welcome. When the Bureau speaks...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u398	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u399	You're welcome. You're welcome, Mr. Comrade. Please! There was no colleague today who has not exceeded his time for more than two minutes, nor one. That's what I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u400	Despite the tempted evidence, I wish you luck...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u401	Mr. Comrade, I'm talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u402	I'll finish. A proposition...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u403	I'm not finished! I believe that what you are doing at the moment is very disrespectful to the Bureau. It's a lot of disrespect, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u404	It is not disrespectful to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u405	Well, I think you should finish now, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u406	Can I say a sentence?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u407	One and the last.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u408	I wish you good luck in the implementation of the budget that is tempted from the beginning to the end and extremely sloppy, but as much as you have at some point, the lower classes and the middle class will be making a reserve, this time will not be long, and all the lies you have spoken before today will appear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, too. I shall now give the Secretary of State for Development and Investment, Mr Papathanassis. Here, Mr. Papathanassis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u410	Thank you very much, Madam President, I will be in time. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that has been tabled and which is expected to be voted on is the first budget of the new Government of New Democracy with a clear positive figure. And since early, our Prime Minister had set the bar of sustainable development very high, for precisely because the New Democracy and himself believed very much in the development of the country, a development that will come and is based on all the productive forces of the country, which is not based on populism, but on healthy, innovative and extroverted entrepreneurship, which will ensure the future of our country and our children. The 2020 budget is realistic and has a positive social impact. It marks a shift in economic policy from sterile overtax to growth. It supports the creation of new jobs and an increase in the available incomes of all citizens. It is a gradual and well-organised plan to overcome the obstacles to the development crisis. It strengthens financially vulnerable social groups that have lifted the burden of budgetary adjustment for a decade. It is geared towards the implementation of our programme commitments, the strengthening of investment and the country's direction towards a development perspective. We therefore place the Greek economy on growth track and predict: growth of 2.8%, reduction of unemployment to 15.6%, increase of private consumption by 1.8%, increase of investment by 13.4%, reduction of tax burdens for employees, pensioners, farmers, professionals and businesses, a total of 1.3 billion euros, suspension of VAT. And I was surprised to hear Mr Tsipras referring to the building. Building is a pillar of growth, Mr Tsipras, and now, based on our GDP, it should be 10 billion euros. Today, then, it is 1.3 billion. And I don't know what's wrong with building growth, which gives so many jobs. At the same time, we are strengthening the stability of the banking system with the HARAKLIS project. We are strengthening liquidity in the real economy through the use of available European financial instruments, the implementation of the Public Investment Programme and the reduction of outstanding public debt. We reduce overtaxation and support vulnerable social groups. Ladies and gentlemen, on 7 July the Greek people believed in our programme and trusted us with his vote. So in just five months of governance, we proceeded to a brave reduction in the ENPIA. We abolished the capital controls imposed in 2015 because of the irresponsible negotiation of the SYRIZA. We have put in place arrangements that reduce administrative burdens, simplify procedures and facilitate the development of investment projects in our country. We have introduced a more flexible process of certification of the completion and start of the production operation of an investment. We proceeded briefly with the emblematic, but completed for years with the Greek investment. And I was amazed again to hear Mr.Janakopoulou speak about the Greek, a Greek which, when we received it, had over three hundred loose ends and with a government of SYRIZA, would not even be in 3000. We supported the revival of sectors such as shipbuilding and steel. We reduced corporate taxation from 28% to 24%. And I want you to answer, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, does the reduction in corporate taxation involve only a few entrepreneurs, a few freelance professionals? Why is it so bothering? If it doesn't bother you, then why did you refer to the reduction? We reduced the dividend tax so that the free traders receive the money from 10% to 5%. We have reduced the import rate from 22% to 9%, i.e. the import tax rate for the lowest income classes has been reduced by 60%. We reduced VAT from 24% to 13% on infants, helmets and children's seats. We simplified the procedures for protecting the first residence. We have promoted privatizations, such as the Athens International Airport. We are implementing a restructuring plan for PPC. We are launching a plan to tackle the high stock of red loans. It is now true that Greece is gaining momentum on the tracks of growth and that economic uncertainty is decreasing. This is demonstrated by the yields of bonds, the upgrades of international rating houses, the positive rate of change of deposits and the significant improvement of the economic climate indicator. We want to increase the share of investment in GDP today at 11% and you have condemned us, gentlemen, in the last place among the countries of the European Union, where the average of investment in GDP is 21%. You realise that we need to move too quickly so that we can reach the European Union's average. We want to improve the competitiveness indicators that, to whomever indicator we refer, you have condemned us in the last positions so that we can develop the potential that we deserve. We deserve a new Greece that is taking the lead in Europe, in development and in investment. We are making a return to credibility and to the word - key to every investor who is the word 'confidence', trust in the words and actions of the government who implements what he says and not the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget you are calling on to vote on today is developing the positive dynamics that the country needs. We remain realistic and consistent in our reform work. We do not just want to bring growth, we want to create a bright new Greece, a Greece that will be leading all over Europe, in all areas. We can't keep up with modesty. We want young people and young people to exclude their immigration for work abroad and speed up their return as many people have left. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no growth bet and no challenge at all. There is the mandate of our people to claim for a better future, it is the mandate given to our Prime Minister, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, that is the mandate given to the New Democracy, our Parliamentary Group and the Governing Group to make a reality a vision, that Greece should become the bright example of progress and success throughout Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Now Mr Alexiadis has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are supposed to be discussing the 2020 budget today. I am supposed to say, because what citizens do not know, - perhaps some of us do not know here - is that even if we agree to two hundred ninety-nine, three hundred MPs, transferring EUR 1,000 from the Ministry of Development - favourite Minister - to the Ministry of Health, for example, we cannot do that. The budget shall be adopted or voted against. Five days, sixty-sixty-seven speakers, endless hours, paperwork, photocopies and otherwise we are sustainable development, ecology and we cannot change anything! A 'voice dialogue' and many times if I judge from a number of speeches, speeches without answering the political arguments put forward. And I now come to the side of the government. I've had enough of the budget. I have been reading many years, unfortunately, budgets. I checked the budget. I have found nowhere that was mentioned by the government for the 170 million transport equivalent. Mr Ministers, please, you're here, I imagine you're watching, until the procedure closes, tell us this page today to let us know. But I found something interesting. I have found that while you said that you will reduce SYRIZA's tax burden and that you will reduce what the bad 'Syrimadouros' did, you are providing for 773 million extra tax revenues in the budget. I say this again, because Mr Babis and Mr Mars would not say that in the morning, they would say what is known as SYRIZA, 773 million extra tax revenues from which we bad Syrians had anticipated in the last year's budget. Now I come to something else I searched in my file and found. I told you in the tax bill. Unfortunately, you did not answer, and I will put it here in every speech. They won't ask you this as an annoying question, friendly media, when you go, as we were asking "Why didn't you abolish HISBIA?" They will not ask you "with the twenty-nine unjust taxes of SYRIZA you said what will happen?" So I repeat the argument. First of all, I would like to inform you that it is twenty-eight, and please also inform Mr Stakoura, who, in a press release from the Ministry of Finance on 5 September, after the election, refers to the twenty-nine new taxes. It's not twenty-nine. Twenty-eight are the 'new' taxes, which, in your opinion, are unfair. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiades, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, I ask again: What will happen with these twenty-nine 'unjust' SYRIZA taxes for which, according to the common people's phrase - which I will not say, because it is a time when they see young children - you have truly dizzied us that we are 'we will abolish them and why you have put this tax and what will happen with it and what will happen with the other?' I put this in the Minutes as well and that will be done all the time until you answer. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiades, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When will you even abolish one of them twenty unjust SYRIZA taxes? I am worried, ladies and gentlemen, about your political speech. I am also concerned about speeches by Members, but for you, the Ministers, I am twice worried because you have the information. You say the same thing and the same arguments. There is your Minister - I do not want to say his name, because I am learning something about reform and I do not want to be the source of problems in your government - who has done four times in the Committee on Economic Affairs and in plenary the same speech. Aren't there any new arguments? When you say an argument and is there an answer from the opposition to the argument, are you coming back to the argument? I understand both the absence of arguments and the embarrassment of the political reason, because two major accounts have collapsed. I am not saying either about 'NOVARTIS' or the refugee. There has now become the great Waterlo. But let us come to economic matters. There are two of your arguments that have collapsed. You have had a record of SYRIZA's "excessive" but you forget that you voted - not on your own, but along with another partner who is now allegedly arguing with you -, Mr.466/2019, with whom your argument and your account of tax burdens and what SYRIZA has done now. because you proved there how you reduced SYRIZA's tax burden. We fought a great battle in the law debate and brought arguments and paintings, etc. Also finished your account of the economy, about how bad a course SYRIZA kept in the economy, because both on the issue of the superstition and on the surpluses and on the 37 billion "cushion", if anyone reads the budget, they will find a lot of answers and confirmation of our own policies. I am worried, ladies and gentlemen, because you said - and what you did not say these days! - It's all because of SYRIZA. There are your speakers who come out here and instead of explaining the budget, they attack the SYRIZA. Please answer me, please, to two simple questions: what was the situation that you delivered the economy in January 2015 to all that you blamed us and what was the situation that you received the economy in July 2019? We're not talking about surpluses. Can I remind you that at that time there was a political official of your Government who said in January 2015 that we will not have to pay salaries and pensions and are now talking to us about cash reserves and surpluses? Also, a request, because you say too much and do a great deal of analysis, put a minister or a politician or a Member of your Parliament or someone else to explain to us what policies, which parties and what political staff led the country to the crisis and bankruptcy? We won't get an answer, but be sure that day after day, as long as we get away from the end of your honeymoon, everyone understands that what you were saying was election fireworks and it's time to answer questions now. I am tabling the Minutes - because, unfortunately, some who come here and forget - what was voted on here, in this House: a reduction in taxes by SYRIZA. Because some say about the first tax bill with tax reductions. The first major tax burden reduction has been made by the SYRIZA Government since you brought the country to the crisis and brought all these difficult measures. We have managed and brought these reductions: a gradual reduction in the tax rate from 29% to 25%, L.4579/2018. Reduction of HNVY by 260 million, much greater than yours and by specific aiming who to lighten, L.4579/2018. Repeal of the Special Consumption Tax on wine, No. 4583/2018. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Little tolerance, Madam President. I will not go beyond what other Members have done. They returned to the reduced VAT rate of 13% of food and drinks. They returned to the reduced VAT rate of 13% on the catering services. Consumers' burden was reduced by switching electricity and gas to the over-reduced rate. The last three with Law 4611/2019. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiades, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There are many other things that we had agreed on and which - I put down a table in the Minutes - were prepared, they were agreed upon by us and, of course, they were not implemented. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiades, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And here you are making a big political blow: you are from time to time and you are pulling out various papers that you have found in the Ministries from negotiations with the institutions and you are not answering the political question: what we had agreed and announced in public, why do you not implement and implement other strange situations and other strange legislation? He's not here - I don't see him - my favourite Minister, Mr. Gerapetti. I say 'My beloved Minister', because I had never heard of him politically. I heard him in the programming statements. I have heard about new parliamentary customs, proper legislation, legal documentation and adequacy, and I say 'they have learned the lesson, they will be 50 years in power'. But then the reality came right away. I wonder: Mr Gerapitris - does he not personally concern himself - his legal status and his position - the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament on Law 4646 read it, which says about legal matters and various other issues of constitutionality? I am also talking about the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament on the 'HRAKLIS' Act, where for a bill with 12 billion costs possibly for the budget, there are issues of legal adequacy, legal risks, interpretation issues, issues of constitutionality. Finally, there is also the amendment for the OEMs and the OEMs, that is to say, that it lightens not the middle class, but the large-scale owners of the media and the owners of football teams and others. Does it lighten them, yes or no? And because we have heard too much about the subject of 'law and order' today, I am in favour of 'law and order'. However, to start with fiscal and other issues, because I would really like a representative of the Ministry of Civil Protection to answer this question: The representatives, the very competent officials of the Economic Police, with whom we worked in very difficult cases, are in agreement with the strange amendments and provisions you have brought for the release of assets and for the reduction of limitation times, which unfortunately make it difficult for the financial prosecutors, what the prosecutors are doing, what the Economic Police is doing, what the audit services are doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u413	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u414	Where did you get these?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u415	I'm hanging up. I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u416	Where did you get these?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u417	Where did we get them? In the bills you voted on, with which you lightened economic fraud, smugglers, tax-raisers...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u418	This is a complete distortion of the bill. This is a complete distortion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u419	Mr. Comrade, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u420	I close with two things, with two phrases, Madam President, and thank you very much for your tolerance. Mr. SYRIZA was told that SYRIZA brought an austerity measures of 11.5 billion. Is that correct, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u421	Plus.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u422	More austerity measures of 11 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u423	In addition to what he had agreed with the institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u424	Please let Mr. Stakoura know about this. You're not on the same line. Of course, I understand that 'right building' has a few issues there. The Minister for Finance - I am presenting the relevant extract - to the Committee on Economic Affairs on Friday, 29 November, he said: 'Before the first memorandum, January to April 2010, the measures were 15 billion. It wasn't the New Democracy in the government. First Memorandum, May 2010. The measures were 30 billion. A total of 45 billion. The New Democracy wasn't in the government. Second Memorandum, December 2012. And third memorandum - notice - about 10 billion euros. Equivalent measures by New Democracy, equal measures by SYRIZA. This is for restoring the truth." [[At this point, the Member, Mr Tryphoe Alexiades, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned passages, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's what Mr. Stavros said.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u425	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u426	Please, therefore: Please at least consult on the criticism you make in SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u427	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u428	I'll hang up and get down. As far as the Cesarean symposium is concerned, I will give the Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic the FEK, where Article 44 on Government SYRIZA was granted space to the municipality and the court ruling by which it was granted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u429	It was an abuse that you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u430	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u431	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u432	I would like to explain something because it seems that the honourable Member has not understood it. I have not mentioned the measures agreed with the institutions. I have referred to the measures you have taken on your own, beyond what you have agreed with the institutions. In other words, to be clear, in the first year you agreed, if I remember well, 0.50% and you did some 4% of GDP, 4 billion more, in the second year of 1.75%, and you did 4% again and the third year you had 3.5% again 4%. You had a four-four maniac. So you did not agree with the institutions. You've done more than your austerity. Even in Bavaria they would not find such fiscally 'new' people as you, 11.4 billion. And in order to do so, the dues were increased in the other 18 billion citizens. You've made 30 billion more tax burdens. It was the biggest gave...
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u433	They're getting old, fast!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u434	But Gerun was a social democrat. In front of Gerun, you are not Volphang, but Volphang in the cube!
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u435	The Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food will close this debate, Mr Skrekas. Minister, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u436	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to inform the Honourable colleagues of SYRIZA that we are not in an election period and therefore, Mr President, you do not need to be indifferent to attempt once again to mislead the Greek people with figures which are completely unfounded, as in any case the Greek people have decided that you are now in opposition. But let me say, because you mentioned that here in this Chamber there is a deaf dialogue, to tell you that it would be good for SYRIZA officials to check on their hearings. And because you are also a man who has passed - I am talking about the previous Member - from the financial staff of the previous government, you have referred and you are asking yourself, and you are accusing the current government, the new Government of New Democracy, that in 2020 it has a tax burden of EUR 773 million and that is what you are judging, I would like to ask a simple question. How can you condemn the increase in tax revenue by EUR 773 million when on the other hand you know that the 2020 budget only holds tax revenues, i.e. it only includes tax reductions? And because it seems that this very simple one is unable to understand it and here is the question “What do you understand all four years that you have governed this place?”, I will tell you that the answer to this question is development. So there is not only the way of overtaxing poor, middle-grade, but also higher, Mr President, to increase the tax revenue of a state. There is another way that is simply called ‘enlargement of the tax base and growth’. Through the growth of the economy, through the development of the income generated, the lower taxation of the state comes, but that brings more revenue to the State. And in this way comes the strong sustainable development and prosperity of people. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, the difficulty of SYRIZA Members to raise serious criticisms of the country's governance by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, but also of the budget that he has put forward a new government for discussion, for something very simple, because the newly elected Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has done something that is impossible for SYRIZA. What's he doing? It has implemented and implemented one by one by one by one by one, and not only by this, but it has been moving even further and moves on to further tax concessions, such as the ENPI and not by 2020, but since this year, since 2019. Of course, I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Mitsotakis does not have the delusions Mr Tsipras had in 2015, which charged Greece with a lot of taxes and we almost escaped the total destruction, but we have not saved a tragic tax burden on an already burdened and troubled people. Today's Prime Minister in Greece, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, does not have SYRIZA's ideas. On the contrary, it has a vision, it has a plan and, above all, it has a iron will at last to change the bad texts in our country that have been afflicting the Greeks for decades. He wants to change the country, organise the state, bring the strong growth so that the Greeks can live better today, but also the next generations of Greeks. I will therefore say that I am truly sorry when I see SYRIZA and other opposition parties Members and Mr Tsipras himself try to judge and cancel a national effort made by a new government that has been fighting since the first time to create a better future for our children and for our grandchildren. Fortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, the very reality comes itself and disguises the malicious'sterns' of the unjust MPs of the Opposition. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has not only confirmed the expectations of these Greeks who believed and supported the change of the previous government, but has welcomed all Greeks who see that the country is progressing faster than they would have expected. One of these key objectives to inspire this progress, of course, is to be able to create the conditions for strong and long-term sustainable development. Of course we cannot talk about the sustainable development of the Greek economy unless this naturally requires the development of the primary sector. I have to tell you that Kyriakos Mitsotakis has set as the top priority the support for agricultural income, the attraction of young farmers and of course the protection of the environment, so as to ensure that the next generations of Greek farmers continue to cultivate in a sustainable way. Today the contribution of the agricultural sector to the national economy is very important. Let me tell you two numbers. Firstly, 30% of the country's total exports, with the exception of oils, come from exports of agricultural products. Secondly, the social contribution of the primary agricultural product sector to GDP in the country exceeds 4%. And if that is where we come and add the processing of agricultural products, then the contribution of the agri-food industry to the whole economy goes by 8%. To note, too, that today in the primary sector, over seven hundred thousand Greeks and Greek women are employed. So you understand how important this sector is for the Greek economy and the Greek society. What, ladies and gentlemen, has SYRIZA done in four and a half years of his administration for this very important sector of the economy? Let me tell you what he did. Not only did it not help, but it had reserved a number of measures and charges. He increased VAT on supplies from 13% to 24%. He increased the VAT even in the straw that farmers feed their animals from 13% to 24%. It increased income tax from 13% to 20%. It has linked the insurance contributions to taxable income, thus disbursing the political cost to farmers. Remind me he put a special tax on wine. And not only that, he came and reduced the tax-free limit on farmers. And so he kept them an extra tax burden. And, of course, he did so supposedly to improve competitiveness and support the primary sector. And not only this, for four and a half years euros, money from the European funds, from the European Agricultural Fund, which were available to be used in the primary sector and to move on to ensure its competitiveness, have been frozen. And we, the new government, have, on the other hand, achieved the following five months: first, we have reduced taxation by reducing the import rate. We have disconnected farmers' insurance contributions from taxable income so that we have reduced the insurance costs to farmers. Thirdly, we come and unleash all these billions, which have been frozen so far. Over two billion euros over the next period will be promoted in the primary sector for investment. I must tell you that today, not after four and a half years of SYRIZA has done, but just after four and a half months, we have moved on to the first financial warrant to pay for an investment which is part of the processing projects - the European programme - through which EUR 400 million will be made available for investment projects for the processing of agricultural products. And we don't stop here. A few days ago we legislated something that would have a lasting positive effect, benefiting from production costs. Because our main objective and priority is to reduce the cost of agricultural production on a permanent basis. What did we do? We have decided for the first time in Greece to be able to build a small photovoltaic, which will produce the electricity he needs and consumes and thus to zero off the cost of electricity. On the other hand, it should be possible for up to 70% of the energy left over, to inject it into the electricity grid, to sell this energy and to have an extra income. And so that it becomes even more competitive, that it can support with this extra income the investments it must make in its crops, that it can stay in the countryside, that it can stay in its fields, that it can produce the quality Greek agricultural products, which ensure the food adequacy of our country and above all be able to support its family. The 2020 budget, friends and friends of Members, is the first budget to be submitted to Parliament by the New Democracy Government and is indeed the first development budget, which has been submitted to this House for the last ten years. And this marks the beginning of a new era for all Greeks and all Greek women. All the evidence shows that we are at the beginning of a long upward cycle of the economy, which comes after a more than ten-year period of recession and unemployment. Greece is finally entering a period of strong growth, at a time of prosperity for all, and this era will last a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u437	Thank you, too, Minister. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Buga, has been speaking for a minute. Here, Mr. Bouga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u438	Madam President, I am not asking for the floor at the end of the sitting to respond to the distortion of the legislation of the New Democracy by his colleague, SYRIZA, who was the first to speak. It was a complete distortion of both the letter and the meaning of the legislation, which he referred to. However, I would like to refer to a point in his speech concerning the area of the Caesarian sniper. With the documents, which were kind enough to give me and, in particular, with the recent decision of the Supreme Special Court, the following arises, Madam President, and I will be very brief. Since 1930, there has been a question about the ownership of the space between the Greek State and a civil law association. By law of 1987 - I would remind you that it is a law of PASOK - the Greek State claimed the ownership of the site. By an administrative act of 2007 - this is why former Minister Giannakou intervened - on the basis of the authorisation granted by law, he exercised his sovereign right in this area to build a school unit and other activities. The case was brought to the courts by the Greek State and the club. I do not have to refer to his name. This dispute ended after a route of about ten years by decision of the Council of State and the opposite decision of the Ice Arena. The dispute between the supreme courts was resolved by Decision 9/2019 of the CED, the Supreme Special Court, in favour of the Greek State. So what you referred to, Mr Colleague, was not something that happened because you took the initiative. It was a long and long dispute, which started as I told you. The site was claimed and won by the Greek State. And you took the initiative - and you did very well - to grant him for a period of time - if I am not mistaken - 40 years in the municipality of Cesareans. Is it the way I describe things? Therefore, Madam President - and I am ending - because we are talking about places with strong patriotic nationalism and historical symbolism, it is wrong to try, implying that the other is less patriot, to be misled - and let me say that, although I know that it is acute - the efforts that have been made, and ultimately led to the result that you have referred to. They're not your efforts. It is an attempt since 1987 that ended in 2017, i.e. about forty years old. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u439	Madam President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u440	Here, Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u441	I won't use the staff, because there's a distortion of what I said. I will only mention that, first, a Member told you about the Cesarean Shooter. We testified, we gave you the relevant law, which took place in 2016 with SYRIZA government. And on the basis of this law, which 14 Ministers sign among them, is awarded the Kessariani Symbol at the Municipality of Cessarian, solving a huge historical unfinishedness. The judgments of the Court, etc. They shall prove that this case is resolved in court too. But we respond to what you said about which government brought the law. The government of SYRIZA fulfilled the Greek public's historic obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u442	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2019-12-17-S1-commons.u443	With the consent of the House at 21: 17 the meeting for tomorrow, Wednesday 18 December 2019 at 11.00 on the subject of this House's work is to continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2020".
