ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION Decision on Protocol No 1312/04-05-2020 on a proposal submitted by thirty (30) Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group pursuant to Articles 86(a) and 86(b) of the Treaty on European Union. 1-3 of the Constitution and 154 and 155 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The proposal for applicants such as under Protocol 17090/9777/14-10-2019 of the President of the Parliament, who have already established and operated a Special Parliamentary Committee carrying out a preliminary examination against the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Dimitrios Papagopoulos, extends the preliminary examination already under way in order to investigate any further criminal responsibilities of that Deputy Minister for any further criminal offences: 1. Challenge and tender for the execution of a felony (Article 186(1) WC), 2. Extortion (Article 385(1) of old PK), 3. Gifting a political official (Art. 159(1) of the old MC), 4. Correspondence of a staff member (Art. 235 PK), 5. Moral Surgery in Power Abuse (Article 46(1) in conjunction with Article 239 PK), 6. Moral Surgery in Occupational Dismissal and Occupational Dismissal (Article 46(1) in conjunction with PK 259 and PK 259 alone), 7. Criminal Organizing a gang case Article 187(3) (formerly Article 187(5)), in accordance with the proposal. The debate on this proposal was concluded at yesterday's sitting on Tuesday 19 May 2020 and the decision on it will be taken in accordance with the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents as of 14 May, at today's sitting, since Rule 137 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure invoked for the organisation of the debate provides for the conclusion of the debate 'within a maximum of two meetings'. In accordance with Article 86(3) of the Constitution, paragraphs 8 and 9 of Rule 155 and Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly shall decide by secret ballot on the establishment or non-Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination. The decision shall be taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, otherwise the proposal shall be rejected. The vote will take place with the successive turnout of Members exclusively from the northern and southern door of the Chamber, to five groups of sixty Members, in alphabetical order and will leave the west door of plenary to Perstylion. Each team will come in every one hour to vote. In particular: The first group (from Mr Avdela Apostolos, MP from the Greek Parliamentary Group to Mr Georgios Georgios, MP Kilkis from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group) from 12.00' to 13.00'. The second group (from Georgiadis Spyridonas - Adoni, MP B1 of the Northern Athens Parliamentary Group of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group to Mr Katsotis Christos, MP B3 of the South Athens Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece) from 13.00" to 14.00". The third group (from Ms. Kafantaris Charula (Hara), MP B2 West Athens from the Group of the Radical Left coalition to Mr.Mulkiotis Georgios, MP of Boeotia of the Change Movement) from 14.00" to 15.00". The fourth group (from Bakadima Fotini, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Mera25 Parliamentary Group to Mr Santorini Nektarios, Member of the Dodecanese Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left Coalition) from 15.00 to 16.00. The fifth group (from Mr Sarakiotis Ioannis, MP Fthiotis of the Radical Left coalition Group to Mr. Psychogios Georgios, MP of Corinthias Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left coalition) from 16.00 to 17.00. For the purpose of holding the secret ballot you will be distributed at the time of your entry to the Chamber of Plenary Session an envelope with the name of the former Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Dimitrios Papagelopoulos, a white ballot and a white file in which the ballot will be placed. On the side of the name the words ‘THE’, ‘THE’, ‘THE’, ‘OR’ shall be inserted. The vote shall be expressed by cross under one of the above words. In the absence of a cross vote in any of these three words 'NAH', 'OH', 'APHON', the ballot shall be deemed void. In accordance with paragraph 10 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, in the event of disagreement between the number of votes cast and the number of votes cast, the count shall be repeated. Although after the new count, the number of ballots is higher than the number of votes cast, they are destroyed before the sorting of the number of ballots equal to the number of additional ballots. The ballot, as well as the proposal put forward, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S2-commons.u2	In giving the name of each Member of Parliament the voter, who will put his file in the ballot, and the Members on the vote will confirm, stating the name of each of the Members who is voting. Speaking on the list of MPs and voters will be carried out - no matter what alphabetical order - at the end of the speech of the Members of this group on the grounds of the proper functioning of the procedure. With regard to the voting, the Rules of Procedure of the House, pursuant to Rule 70A, stipulate that fellow Members or members of the Government who are on a mission of Parliament or the Government abroad may participate in the secret ballot. In accordance with its unanimous decision of 14 May 2020, the Conference of Presidents, in these exceptional circumstances, when a secret ballot is required, this will be done by a personal presence of the Members and not by a letter of formal vote. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S2-commons.u3	The House has agreed. They shall be called on the list: For the first group (from Avdelas Apostolos to Georgios Georgios, from 12 noon to 13 noon) MP Thesprotia Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy and MP Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos from the Change Movement. For the second group (from Georgiadis Spyridon - Adonis to Katsotis Christos, from 13.00 to 14.00) MP Thesprotia Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy and MP Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos from the Change Movement. For the third group (from Kafantaris Charula (Haras) to Mulkiotis Georgios, from 14.00' to 15.00') MP Lefkados Athanasios Kavadas from New Democracy and MP Aitolokarnanias Dimitrios Konstantopoulos from the Change Movement. For the fourth group (from Bakadima Fotini to Santorini Nektarios, from 15.00' to 16.00') the MP Mr.Achaias Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis from New Democracy and the MP Mr.Apostolos Panas from the Change Movement. For the fifth group (from Sarakiotis Ioannis to Psychogios Georgios Georgios, from 16.00 to 17.00) the MP Lefkados Athanasios Kavadas from New Democracy and the MP Halkidikis Mr. Apostolos Panas from the Change Movement. They are also called as voters: For the first and second team (from Avdelas Apostolos to Katsotis Christos, from 12 noon to 14 noon) MP I Piraeus Mr.Ioannis Melas from New Democracy and MP II of Thessaloniki Mr. George Arvanitides from the Change Movement. For the third and fourth team (from Kafantaris Charula (Hara) to Santorinios Nektarios, from 14.00' to 16.00') the MP from Ioannina Mr Maria - Alexandra Capital from New Democracy and MP B2 from the West Athens Sector Mr. Konstantinas (Nandi) Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement. For the fifth group (from Sarakiotis Ioannis to Psychogios Georgios Georgios, from 16.00 to 17.00) the MP from the Western Attiki Mr. Evangelos Liakos from New Democracy and the MP Dramas Charulas from the Change Movement. Ladies and gentlemen of the first four groups will be asked to attend the counting and sorting of the votes to be held at 17.00 hours, when the vote is expected to be completed. In accordance with paragraph 6 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis, Member of the Dodecanese Parliament and Quaestor of the Parliament, will be Chairman of the Committee of Inquiry. I would ask the voters to come to the poll. I repeat that the Members on the vote will confirm, stating the name of each of the Members who is voting. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S2-commons.u4	I would ask you to repeat the list of absent Members. [[AND THE DESCRIPTION OF THE LEGISLATION]] Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that Mrs Fofi Gennimata, Mr George Papandreou and Mr Charalambos Kastanidis have sent a letter of intent, although not provided for in the secret ballot, stating that if they were present, they would vote according to the position of their party.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S2-commons.u5	The vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and take the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S2-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the secret vote in this House. A total of 177 Members voted. There were 177 ballots in the poll. I won 175 ballots. Annulled 2 ballots. White 0 ballots. In favour of the proposal 175 Members voted. No Member of Parliament has voted against the proposal. 'Paris' voted no Member of Parliament. Following the outcome of the secret ballot, a motion tabled by thirty Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group pursuant to Rules 86(1)-3 of the Constitution and 154 and 155 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure is accepted. The proposal for applicants such as under Protocol 17090/9777/14-10-2019 of the President of the Parliament, who have already established and operated a Special Parliamentary Committee carrying out a preliminary examination against the former Deputy Minister of Justice, Dimitrios Papagopoulos, extends the preliminary examination already under way in order to investigate any further criminal responsibilities of that Deputy Minister for any further criminal offences: 1. Challenge and tender for the execution of a felony (Article 186(1) WC), 2. Extortion (Article 385(1) of old PK), 3. Gifting a political official (Art. 159(1) of the old MC), 4. Correspondence of a staff member (Art. 235 PK), 5. Moral Surgery in Power Abuse (Article 46(1) in conjunction with Article 239 PK), 6. Moral Surgery in Occupational Dismissal and Occupational Dismissal (Article 46(1) in conjunction with PK 259 and PK 259 alone), 7. Criminal Organizing a gang case Article 187(3) (formerly Article 187(5)), in accordance with the proposal. I therefore propose that the already established and operating Special Parliamentary Committee which had to submit its findings and evidence by 20 May 2020, in accordance with the decision of the House of Parliament, and which, acting unanimously on 14 May 2020, requested the extension of its term of office until 30 May 2020, following the current decision of the House to extend the preliminary examination of the above-mentioned offences, to submit the finding and the evidence as a whole by 30 June 2020. Do you agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S2-commons.u7	The House has agreed. Before I asked for your approval for the ratification of the minutes of today's sitting, I would like to take note of an issue which has arisen from the vote that has taken place. As you know, there can only be dialogue during the vote on the Rules of Procedure after it has announced its outcome. That is how the Rules of Procedure provide in a relevant article. We're at this stage. The result has been announced and I can tell you that on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group Mrs Olga Gerovali, Secretary of the Parliamentary Group, she has sent me a letter which I will read to you, which she complains about the way in which Mr Stavros Kalogannis voted. The comments and protests made by SYRIZA in the letter are in fact answered by the Committee of Inquiry. I will read to you after the decision of the committee of inquiry on this issue. The letter of the Radical Left Coalition reads as follows: ‘Athens 20 May 2020, To the Honorable President of Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Tsouula. Mr President, The absence of counter-population from the process of today's vote does not mean that it is not controlled and supervised by the Greek people. Today's television broadcast with picture and sound from the channel of this House has made a decisive contribution today to identifying the smuggling of New Democracy and KINAL, which was done before you. The basic rule of the electoral process for unions - and how much more so in the electoral process taking place within the temple of democracy, the Greek Parliament - is that the ballot is sealed before the start of the vote and opens when the voting process is completed, in order to start opening the files, splitting the lists into valid, void and white and counting the valid votes. The vote will take place at no time until the end of the vote. If that happens for any reason, then the electoral procedure is not valid. Even the lawyers engaging in electoral proceedings as judges know this, let alone the President of the Parliament, who is experienced law, but also the president of the tax office, and also the lawyer in Paraskevi. Mr President, before you, the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry and Vice-President, Mr Ypsilantis, opened the ballot while a voting procedure was under way and removed a ballot. He had just preceded, as has been recorded in the video, the vote by New Democracy MP Stavros Kalogannis, who, according to what is heard in the video, threw in the ballot without a file. The video has recorded the obvious inconvenience of the fact that the ballot will be taken as an invalid in the count and the attempt to “correct the mistake”. The dialogues between the members of the post office, you know them, as you were present when the event was unfolded, and they are clearly recorded in the video. Of all the things that have occurred before you, everyone who has been watching it alive, except those who have participated or have been present in this parliamentary crime has been shocked. It was disarming the phrase of the member of the committee of inquiry and a member of KINAL, George Arvanitidis: "They will not understand it." Like also the phrase of the present, at the time KINAL MEP Vassilis Kegeroglou, "it did not take a picture that he voted". Unfortunately, your presence has not prevented the members of the mercenary delegation to continue the electoral process as if nothing had happened. As a result, the electoral procedure is void and does not produce legal effects. We ask you to protect Parliament's authority and democratic procedures, even now. Yours sincerely, Olga Gerovasili; Secretary of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. Attachments: USB with relevant digital material from the Parliament's channel.’ I submit to the minutes SYRIZA's letter. [[The abovementioned letter is entered in the Minutes and read as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Let the pages in. 37-38]] CHANGING PAGE
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S2-commons.u8	On this matter, I shall read by unanimity a decision of the Committee of Inquiry, which has been taken on this matter: "Today, Wednesday, May 20, 2020, during the secret ballot in Parliament's plenary session, voters, Mr. Ioannis Melas and Mr. Yorgos Arvanitides immediately found that MP Ioannina Stavros Kalogannis voted by folding his ballot without using the white file that ensures the secrecy of the vote. They interrupted the vote and called on the chairman of the Electoral Committee, Mr Vassiliou - Nikolaos Ypsilantis, a Quaestor of the House. They unanimously decided that in order to ensure the secrecy of the vote, which is part of its validity, to publicly allow the only folded vote to be withdrawn and to place Mr Kalogonnis himself in a white file and to vote in secret as provided for. The vote was resumed on the list below. This should be included in the minutes of the secret sitting of the sitting of Wednesday 20 May 2020, in accordance with the special agenda of the Parliamentary Assembly. The Management Committee shall: Vassilis - Nikolaos Ypsilantis, President. Members: Ioannis Melas, George Arvanitidis, Maria Kephala, Konstantina Giannakopoulou, Evangelos Liakou, Hara Kefalidou". This should also be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S2-commons.u9	Allow me, by using a right that, unfortunately or happily, only the President of Parliament has to speak during the voting agenda during such phases, but if its result has been announced and if the Rules of Procedure raises a question of correct voting, I should like to say to you: Indeed, there was an issue which immediately, at the time it was created, was found by the members of the Electoral Committee, which, at the time Mr Kalogannis was voting, prevented him from stopping it in vain. The main element of this vote, which has also made sure that the members of the Electoral Committee are respected, is its secrecy. Since my colleague was voting without a file at stake, he was at risk, the secrecy of his vote was violated. At that time, therefore, it had to be decided what would be the fate of this folded vote. As a result, it has proved that Mr Kalogonnis finally voted in secret - no one knows what he voted for - and the result of the vote, which has 175 'NAI's' so that otherwise the cause of SYRIZA's voidity of the whole procedure is further solved. You will tell me: 'It was the procedure as you would like it to be?' I am not saying this, but I would not like to see it at all, as the members of the Committee of Inquiry did not want to see there being a violation of secrecy with any legal impact that this infringement had, which would probably still be raised at the end of the count. At that time, in my opinion correctly dominated the protection of the secrecy of the vote, which was effectively protected. There was no poaching. It would be a slap in the face and not a vote on behalf of the colleague. No voter has been removed. The vote was protected with its file, so that there is no case of objection to the basic core that we must protect in such votes, which is its secrecy. That is what I have to say in relation to this incident. Furthermore, the fact that no one would wish this event to happen and the fact that this event, which has been corrected immediately, produces an invalidity of the entire procedure and constitutes a smuggling, which I do not accept, and I will therefore make use of the right provided by the Rules of Procedure and I shall endorse the Minutes for counting votes as valid. After that, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the minutes of today's sitting, which is a secret vote on the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S2-commons.u10	The House has therefore given the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-20-S2-commons.u11	With the consent of the House at 18.27 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 21 May 2020, at 11.00, on the subject of this House's work: according to the agenda that has been distributed.
