ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u1	The technical problem has been solved with regard to your registrations. So we can start. Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents in its Report the draft law of the Ministry of Health: 'Prevention, protection and promotion of health - Development of public health services'. Ms. Notopoulou, Mr. Rousopoulos and Mr. Simopoulos are applying for a short-day absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u2	The House approved the requested permits.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Single discussion and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Agricultural Cooperatives and other provisions'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 26 February 2020 to discuss the draft law at two single meetings in principle, articles and amendments. The time has come to end today, given that we also have a meeting tomorrow, will depend on how many colleagues will be here. Then we will have a debate on the end of today's sitting. So I am not telling you the time, because it will be the function of the Members who will be present. We agree - I think - unanimously with this. We can start with the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy, Maria - Eleni Soukoulis - Vilialis. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, before I begin my suggestion, I would like to mention that these difficult hours our thoughts are in both the Armed Forces and the Security bodies which self-detest the battle against the inhuman policies of Turkey's political leadership. Ladies and gentlemen, today I recommend the adoption of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on agricultural cooperatives and other provisions relating to individual issues of the Ministry. But what we are actually doing is putting a dividing line between yesterday's attitudes and today's challenges with regard to the rural development process. Four meetings were held in the Committee on Production and Trade. The need for healthy and strong agricultural cooperatives has been heard by everyone. They have, of course, heard - and I am sure they will hear today - and some voices that are asking us to stick to the past. In a past that our own farmers did not stick to. There have been voices - perhaps even today and tomorrow - calling them to remain committed to the chariot of the micro-political self-interest and the various party voting objectives, in a system that the farmers themselves have already enjoyed. That is why we are talking today about inactive cooperatives and ghost seals. A great demand and commitment to the Greek people, to the government and to the Prime Minister themselves, but also to all of us, is the economic and social correction of the country. In order to be able to stick to this goal, we should enter the path without the sirens that cause us to break the road. We are not going to take a step behind this strategic objective, from what we have committed ourselves to and which the Greek people are waiting for. Because, quite simply, where there is an economic need, there is no luxury of time for endless ideological searches. In order to achieve this objective, we must, with a plan and vision, change the country's productive model. Greek society expects innovative actions, but also practical results, which will improve the way the citizens live and, in this case, the rural world. In this direction of remodeling the productive model, the primary sector is clearly called upon to play a leading role. Today the competitiveness of the agri-food sector is inversely proportional to the quality of our agricultural products. We cannot have the best agricultural products, and this should be inversely in line with their international competitiveness. So I ask: why does such an important sector of the Greek economy with clear comparative advantages not produce the expected results in the country's GDP, in terms of added value, or in terms of employment? The draft law, which we have to vote on today, answers key issues of the production process in the primary sector. It has responded to a series of questions that have been arousing the primary sector for decades. It is clearly about the framework for the organization and operation of the country's agricultural cooperatives. He'll wonder in good faith or someone. Will agricultural cooperatives with such problems of economic sustainability, inadequate operation and administration, but above all with this serious lack of confidence among farmers themselves, be a key to the primary sector to unfold its enormous productive potential? The answer is clear. The success of these collaborative structures is a one-way road. So many scientific research - in Greece and internationally - are clear where we are, but also where we want to go. I am offering data and words from the excellent survey of 'internationalism' in May 2019: 'The average lot is only sixty acres here in Greece, almost a third of the European average - sixty-one acres - and more than half of the farms have a size of less than twenty acres. The size in the agri-food sector is so small - researchers write - that in the medium and long term the large majority of Greek non-competitive units are in terms of exports and, more generally, internationally marketable products in the agri-food sector. Thus, the primary sector in the country gives gross value added per acre about 60% less than the corresponding sector in Italy, for example." In practice, this means that the only way is to strengthen cooperation and cooperation in order to achieve the necessary economies of scale in order to adopt extroverted models of operational action and in order, ladies and gentlemen, to stop the transition of the entire trade process to the black economy. Now it's time for action. So what do we do with this draft law? We are creating a framework that gives cooperatives the institutional flexibility, both in the internal organisation and in the business direction they want, by stressing 'Leaving' - at their discretion to adopt mixed organisational characteristics. We have talked many times at the meetings of the committee about this, given the clear majority of the two-thirds of the members of the general meeting. It is planned to allow agricultural cooperatives to offer up to EUR 25 000 for each member as a whole. We are reducing the minimum number of establishment, from twenty to ten, and even in specific cases, where we have purely female cooperatives or where we have cooperatives in mountain areas or island areas below three and a half thousand inhabitants or where we have a special product, we are reducing even five members who can establish a cooperative. Agricultural cooperatives are established by decision of the supervisory authority of the Ministry of Rural Development. We're forgetting the judicial authorities. This is a fact that everyone who has come to the committee's meetings has welcomed, because it is simply speeding up the process, restricting the burden of the courts and reducing the costs for the cooperatives. The financial support of agricultural cooperatives shall also be provided for the possibility of taking part in agricultural cooperatives, if provided for by the statutes of investors, natural or legal persons who are not obliged to trade with them. Each investor member may participate with more than one compulsory share, each having the right to one vote and may have a different value than that of the compulsory shares of the members of cooperatives. We have heard a great deal at all four meetings of this committee on the question of investors' members. In any case, we have said that the concept of investor also existed in the 2016 bill, but without the possibility of voting. Since then, unfortunately, no one has been interested. In order not to alter the nature of agricultural cooperatives as a rural enterprise, it is planned that investors may not hold a total number of votes, exceeding 35% of the total number of votes available to members of the agricultural cooperative. There is no limitation on the number of thirty members, so that there is also a supervisory board as an administrative body in their operation, which was also welcomed by the bodies at the meeting, which had been invited. In order to enhance transparency: ‘from the point of view’ of the parties involved, the Presidents of the boards of directors and the Directors-General, for cooperatives with a turnover of more than EUR 1 million. Serious auditors and audit firms for any agricultural cooperatives that have a turnover in the last year of more than EUR 2 million. The surpluses created by the agricultural cooperative are not taxed. The profits of the agricultural cooperative are taxed in accordance with the provisions of the applicable tax legislation. Tax exemptions are laid down for the contributions of members of agricultural cooperatives. It is also laid down that the surpluses distributed to members are taxed as income from a rural business activity. The possibility of subjecting agricultural cooperatives to the development laws in question is allowed and provisions are maintained which introduce economic, fiscal or other exemptions. The issues related to the establishment, organisation and operation of the National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives, ETH are regulated. ETH is a legal person of a non-profit nature, which is the national coordination organisation of agricultural cooperatives and other legal persons, registered in the National Register of Agricultural Cooperatives other than interbranch organisations. What are we doing here? Here we are giving the necessary negotiating power to agricultural cooperatives, thereby strengthening both their single competitive position on the world market and, of course, their single position vis-à-vis the other social partners in our country and even the Ministry. Three amendments have been tabled, both have been discussed at the fourth meeting of the committee. I'm just reporting them. It is a matter of homicide, one, as far as time is concerned, so that it can be the right period, May, June, July. The second relates to the responsibility of the administrative agricultural cooperatives, that is to say the members of organisations, which have been in liquidation or liquidation for five years since the hostage, which had been in liquidation by the company itself. The third amendment - again Ministerial, but not discussed in a committee - concerns regulation of voluntary improvements agencies, helps in recruitment times, which are necessary for staff in the proper time. I think they will also be discussed in the course. Ladies and gentlemen, the key word is 'cooperation', a word which needs to be sufficiently understood and incorporated into our social and economicly worthwhile system. If, for the country, the word 'cooperation' is an undeniable necessity - I think that now we all understand it more than ever - for the primary sector this is a question of existential proportions. Without the existence of dynamic and innovative cooperative structures, the walls that keep the country far from the whole agricultural process, as it runs internationally, will become even higher. We must promote and stimulate cooperation between farmers and cooperatives in order to achieve both economic and political emancipation. Today we are taking a very important step towards converting agricultural cooperatives, not into the steam engine of the Greek economy, in the sense that the fuel will be loans, financing, subsidies or compensation. Because whoever lives in the real economy and in the real society understands that it cannot be viable only by lending and subsidies. We want to turn the cooperatives into this vehicle, which will actually be able to carry our farmers another more efficient mentality, so that they can become economically handmade, know that the produce they produce will be able to reach the shelf and have a profit. Because for the profit they work too. The financially manipulated farmer can be turned into a decisive creative factor both for strengthening the Greek economy and for strengthening social cohesion. And all of us together can make it, forget to function as a unit and start acting as a team. Because there's no other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by 50 students and students and three educational attendants from the 4th Patras High School. We may not have come to Patras - for the well-known reason - but you have come to Athens and to Parliament. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stavros Arachovitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a detailed debate on the bill in committee, if we want to sum up our criticism in a phrase, this is that the Ministry is attempting to introduce provisions on capital companies into a law on cooperatives, a hybrid model, which, wherever it has been implemented worldwide, has failed. And when we say hybrid, it is known that the word hybris means something that does not exist in nature, which is not sustainable. That is what all the partners, all the institutions, scientific and international, who participated, have said, but we shall then be talking about. We are living at a time when the income of farmers and farmers is dramatically reduced. We are experiencing a time when the sale price of many agricultural products - such as olive oil - is below costs and is constantly falling apart. We live at a time when individual producers are more vulnerable to the pressures of large companies, which control retail trade and distribution. At a time when cooperatives in Europe have a substantial and indirect role to play. At this time, then, in our country, we are trying to deal with these basic problems by introducing a law that everywhere, wherever it has been implemented, has failed. The main thing is that we do not listen to the successful examples of cooperatives, which have to tell us how they were in the leading position, found here in Greece, in the data and the special features of our country. Why do we disagree, though? What are our key points of disagreement? The first is to see what is going on, what is being served by the entry of 35% into the cooperative capital of shareholders - investors. The first thing, then, is that the reputation of the cooperative product is assigned, the network is assigned, but also the property of the cooperatives built by generations to members - investors. The second thing we disagree with is the way in which the investors enter. You say that in order to give 66% - two thirds - they should take a decision of the general meeting. If a quorum is not achieved, one fifth, that is, 20%, by a simple majority. In other words, 10% of the members of a cooperative can decide to transfer 35% of the cooperative capital to members - investors. The third is the rate in this regard. While at the beginning of the debate in consultation there was 25% in the committee, and today we are called on to vote for 35%. That, as you said in committee, Minister, is to protect minority rights. This, however, has another dimension which, in private companies, could clearly be understood, but in cooperatives in no way. In order to make critical, important decisions, which do not require an increased majority, or which is required in the first vote, when an investor has 35%, in order for everyone else to mitigate a decision, twice as much as one vote in the vote and not at the start of the quorum of the assembly. The assembly may start by a majority, but at the vote the percentage that it will be able to vote against must be twice as high as one vote. We are therefore talking about more than 70%, more than the increased majority, which is required by the critical decision-making plan. The next point is the value of the portion. Here too, there has been confusion between the operation of capital companies and cooperatives. I say this because you say that the share is one and has a specific value for members - cooperatives, but 35%, its value is determined by the decision of the general assembly, i.e. it can be different, larger or less, than the value of the share of cooperative members. The next one is the obligations of the investors. While the law clearly stipulates that - up to 80% was in our own law, in Law No.4384, now you do 75%, it is a small difference - the members - are obliged to expel partners from their cooperatives, there is no such obligation on members - investors. The next point of criticism is that the principle of open door to cooperatives applies. In other words, members can enter and leave the cooperative freely. Thus, the share capital, the capital of the cooperative is changing, as is the number of members and is decreasing accordingly. Therefore, the number of shares is variable. So, 35% of whom are we talking about? The 35th of the photographic moment at which the decision is taken by the general meeting? Obviously. If, however, there is a change downwards mainly, what will happen? The private investor can be found at a higher percentage of the co-operative capital than it has been in. It is another point, which has become hybrid application of different cooperative rules and cooperatives with capital companies. However, the draft law also has another reading that the open door principle is not only for cooperatives, it is obviously also for investors. This means that if at some point the cooperative decides that he wants to leave the cooperative, he is asking for the money he has paid and corresponding to the rate of up to 35% that he has taken part in. The first question is that provision in the law does not exist but that corresponding provisions can be taken within the statute. It is referred to in Article 7, paragraph 3. Time and value are therefore referred to in the statutes. If the statute does not have a strong prediction, the economy and the viability of the cooperative can be shaken. In this respect, point 2: How will the investor withdraw at what value? The valuation of the property created by the generations? At the acquisition value? Who? Or is the application of Article 1(5), which does not comply with the law on public limited liability companies? I think that this is also a basic lack of the bill, which makes things not positive for cooperatives. However, the basic principle of maintaining the democratic control of the cooperative is abolished, since 35% can own only one member - investor, and it is expressly stated in the law that the members - cooperatives can hold a share, which corresponds to one vote. So a second party is that, the multiple vote. The latter also has the side effect that at a general meeting a private investor who has 35% starting the general meeting will be able to with 35%, with only one vote, if you want an VAT, control decisions and control key and critical decisions for the cooperative, such as the recruitment of a general manager, the sale of real estate, the conclusion of agreements, etc. Another point which we have not been able to discuss in committee is the amazing Article 29 in paragraph 8, where it says. It says, "Agricultural cooperative can be transformed into a rural partnership or another form of legal personality by decision of the General Assembly." What is the ‘other form of company’? There is no company in the law, except a cooperative and an anonymous partnership. This article and this paragraph, what does it even mean? By decision of the General Assembly, which at the second meeting may take decisions with one second of these? I think that this is another point of monument, which should take account of the Ministry, which it legislates. There is also a question of constitutional legitimacy here, Minister. One partner - we said - has a share and a vote. A member-investor may have several shares, so many votes. This is a matter of unequal treatment and equality among members. If this point is offended by a constitutional court, I do not know what might be the conclusion of this article and of this law as a whole. However, let us see at this point what the institutions have said. First of all, which bodies were they? They were bodies such as GEOTEE, as they were public gardeners, they were studying bodies, and there were too many cooperatives themselves, and many cooperatives themselves - but basically in committee we had the joy and honour to host and listen to Mr Bruno Roelants, the Director-General of International Cooperative Cooperation, representing more than one billion partners in the whole world, namely a very strong voice, which he said to you? I shall put it to the end in the Minutes, in an abrupt manner, by expressing everyone's views on colleagues who have not been able to attend the committee and to hear by living what was said. Accelerating the basic elements of criticism, what did he say? With regard to investors, they started in the 1990s where there was a fashion more generally in Europe for the creation of these tools. In fact, all this was lost, limited, disappeared. It mentions the characteristic that if you want you can make it the same mistake, but then don't complain if it didn't work. That's what everyone said in the Minutes. About the necessity of this law: Obviously, to bring a law on cooperatives there was a need. Who was that? Was it necessary to connect the market to the cooperatives, the cooperatives and their access to the market? But this has already been solved. Mixed companies between cooperatives and public limited companies are anticipated by creating another form outside the cooperative, precisely to make this connection, which the cooperatives would like to see. So that's what there is. What's the point we're talking about? The need is liquidity alone. Here there are a number of other solutions, which do not affect the basic principles of cooperatives and are not based on a failed model. Previously, L.4384 provided for the possibility of voluntary dividends for people who want to financially, according to members' financial participation, the third basic principle for cooperatives, without intervening in the co-operative capital. Is that what it worked? He spoke and listened to it by the institutions, and indeed by the President of the new PASPEGIES and President of the Kalavritan Cooperative that there around those members are the investors with optional shares, which help to support the co-operative's capital. So that's one thing that worked. Can we widen it? Let's see. However, the main element is the financing of cooperatives after the sale of the Agricultural Bank. Here was a great effort during the previous term, the mandate of governance SYRIZA to create a development bank and a special purpose bank, precisely to address this great gap left by the lack of the Agricultural Bank in the rural and cooperative area. They need more bold steps, but efforts have been made. Remember that just in August 2018 the country was found out of memorials, so more and more drastic steps can now be taken since we have all identified and we have all agreed what the problem really is that we want to deal with. From you a question was raised... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need no more than a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u7	You got it. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u8	You told us that, okay, you guys, and if he fails here, what happened? Nothing happened. Anyone who wants to do this, voluntarily, is, whoever wants to do it doesn't do it and if it fails to do so much - it's too much not to happen to anyone. It is not so because when the framework is established and applied to a number - less or more - cooperatives this model with the entry of investors, the consistency for these cooperatives, which will be carried out and implemented by the law, will be that the results will no longer be reversed. The investor will now be in, he will ask for his money back, with the result that both the cooperative capital and the company's own viability. So, it's not just that simple to say it didn't happen and nothing if it failed. There was a review by Mr.4384 of whether he succeeded or failed. Let me tell you two - three facts and not more. First of all, we said that Mr.4384 was quite paternalistic, that is, he had a quite large intervention, which you are not only keeping them, but you are extending them, so you are adopting them. Is that good why? Because there was a need at that time, when the partner's confidence in the cooperatives was shaken, the state was found and it said that I guarantee the operation of cooperatives, creating a supervisory authority at the Ministry, well-off - it is not yet, but it can be staffed - which controls and ensures that we do not fall into the sins of the past. So that's a positive element of N.4384. The second is the register. We are now all talking about cooperatives, the number of cooperatives, the number of cigarettes and the others, precisely because there is the Register of Cooperatives, introduced by Law No.4384, the previous law. Until then, we didn't know what we were talking about. We were talking about about six and a half thousand cooperatives, how many of them are in a solution, cleansed, inertial, how many are active, how many are productive, with what turnovers, etc. So, second tool, the net mapping. The third was the optional portions. As we said, where this was used, it has had positive results. The last thing is that new cooperatives were, in fact, created, but not at the rate created in the 1930s, 1940s, 1980s. In these times of crisis, cooperatives were created with L.4384, in this short period of application, because, let us not forget that its implementation has been in place for a very short period of time, so it is too early to see whether a law has succeeded or failed. Finally, I would like to say that there is no doubt about it to anyone that there is nothing so positive that the entry of members - investors into the cooperatives can give. On the contrary, the negative view or at least significant reservations have been put forward, which we have not seen corrected so far. We urge you, Minister, to withdraw the provisions for members of investors. I would like to say in the Minutes that the bodies will be struggling, so that all Members will have a direct picture of what we are discussing and what has been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theories, twenty-nine Danish students and students and two of their educational attendants from Roskilde Cathedral School. The House welcomes you. We welcome you in the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please close the electronic record. As far as I'm concerned, you have sixty-two colleagues. So, I think doing a time calculation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u10	Sixty-five.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u11	All right, sixty-five. We've got sixty-two on the canal. Colleagues are telephone numbers. We've found a new trick now. In any case, I think we can do it tonight, given that we have the day before tomorrow, at around 21.00 p.m. to 21.30 p.m., to close today's sitting. Tomorrow we'll start 10 a.m. and if we go smoothly, we'll have finished the meeting at about 14 a.m. to 15 a.m. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u12	The House has agreed. We are now moving on to special speakers. Mr. Apostolos Panas has the floor from the Movement of Change.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the debate on today's bill, let me make a brief reference to the great crisis that we are experiencing as a country. Coming from Central Macedonia, I am well aware of the difficult situations faced by our fellow citizens. The same difficult situation our islanders are facing. National coexistence and cohesiveness, but also the national plan that must be in existence, are essential. Our political forces must be present, but with a plan. As a Change Movement, we will be able to help each attempt to manage the crisis. We are present and will take every possible initiative - within and outside Greece - to resolve the problem, which concerns the present and the future of the country. I now enter the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food on agricultural cooperatives before the House. Before analysing the characteristics of the bill, let us remember the concept of cooperative. What, then, means cooperative? A partnership, according to the International Cooperative Alliance, is an autonomous association of individuals, established voluntarily to address their common economic and cultural needs and pursuits through a co-owned and democratically managed operation. This definition was given to the World Congress of Cooperatives in Manchester, England, in 1995. The association's foundation is therefore a historic institution and a time-consuming institution, it is a constitutionally guaranteed right and has contributed to the linkage of professionals to social and economic progress. Through rural private partnerships, strong brand names have been created, income-intensive local economies and societies have been strengthened. The role of agricultural cooperatives has defined primary production, has defined the general course and development of the country's primary sector. That is why the legalisation process for the cooperative sector should be much more thorough, more selective, clearer, with a view to the present and future. So to this requirement, this draft law unfortunately fails to respond. It is coming to supplement a comprehensive, complex, already existing legal framework for cooperatives, a fragmented legal framework, the provisions of which, as the act has proved, have failed to solve the problems of cooperatives that have accumulated over the years, with thousands of cooperatives inactive or under liquidation. The cooperative movement went bankrupt for many reasons, and why the intervention of the state that was attempting, in particular with Law4384/2016, did not solve the problems, but also because the cooperatives followed the overall course of the country's primary sector, in a climate of disorganization, pessimism and economic impoverishment. So this draft law is coming, without any reform at all, without even trying to lay the foundations for a productive model for the country's primary sector. It would be an element and ingredient that would give improvements. Agricultural cooperatives, ladies and gentlemen, can no longer be treated by the governments in question as a single, specific or even technical issue in the agricultural sector. It cannot be dealt with in the co-operative framework with fast track procedures, with certain provisions, which regulate bureaucratic and procedural issues for the establishment and operation of cooperatives and say that you draw up a bill for cooperatives, have the illusion that in this way you are offering something new to these organisations, which have their own history in the country's primary sector. Let alone you, ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, cannot be presented as defenders of the cooperative movement and of the single institutional representation of farmers, because the association has no place in your own philosophy. You do not know the concept of cooperative, the value for local agricultural production, how the cooperative can help each producer individually, to mitigate the cost of production and to promote its products, by increasing its final income, how the enhanced cooperative movement can help overall the progress of the primary sector. So the criticism we make in the bill under discussion, ladies and gentlemen, focuses on the fact that, once again, the government legislates, without having a specific plan, there is no prospect, the vision of cooperative development through the promotion of a project as a whole for the primary sector of the country. This plan, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, is not sure if you do. In the question I myself addressed, Minister, what is the truth about the reason why you are adding another bill to the already complex legal framework for agricultural cooperatives, you replied that your aim was to give the cooperatives freedom to regulate their issues, as they want? The argument, even though you have come to a certain extent to simplify the cooperative framework, which was admittedly quite complicated, is to listen to it, but also to the essence of it, because we do not see any radical regulation in this draft law, rather than one of the same ones. Do you really, Minister, bring in a bill to show that you are in favour of human freedom and that you trust the partners? Is this your strategy to solve the problems of cooperatives? Minister, you have made it clear with your policy that you are in favour of the entry of private capital everywhere: private insurance to ELGA, private investors in the agricultural cooperative for the first time. With this bill, you are also entitled to vote. So this is the only innovation that brings this draft law. By introducing such legislation you are giving the right by law of the State to enter the cooperative and having 35% on all the votes to lead to it, where it wants, a practice which, more clearly, could not be said by the International Cooperative Alliance, has been implemented internationally and has failed. And how did you respond to the committee? Whatever has yet to be done, namely that we must apply it, see it, and let us fail. Isn't that the logic unreasonable? Are we going to implement, as you say, a model of rural cooperative operation that has already failed internationally? The entry of individuals has failed because, as the Director-General of the International Cooperative Alliance said, the cooperative is not a capital company. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, do you want us to implement, once again, the bad texts of international practice? That's the point of our criticism in this bill, that you see the tree and you lose the forest. You have heard the representatives of all the bodies who disagree with this regulation. Even if they accepted, as they said, the entry of a private person, they would certainly not give him 35% on the total of the votes, which even accumulates one person. They all believe - and they have said so clearly - that this will be the way to lose the identity and authenticity of the cooperative, that its democratic function, which is one of the cooperative authorities, will be destroyed. The agencies said it, they warned it. Your counterproject, following the logic of giving the partners freedom through the bill, is the non-mandatoryness of the provision. Experience has shown, however, that in Greece, the law has given the right, not only will it be used, but it can also be abused. The local business activities will now begin to be carried out with the cooperative cloak, with the benefit of the private sector alone. You argued in the debate in the committee that cooperatives need to evolve in order to withstand competition from large capital companies. To listen to the argument of the need for funding, to which the private person can contribute to rescuing or setting up a strong cooperative, but not with the right to vote. Why with the right to vote? With mathematical accuracy, with the right to vote and, in particular, with the 35% rate, the individual will have decisive authority. The argument of the non-mandatoryness of the provision is dismantled by the fact that, with a set of provisions taken over by heads (c), (d) and (e) of the bill you are trying to cover the final provision of almost universal power to the private investor, so do not talk about giving freedoms to the cooperative, because the actual targeting of this bill is the total weakening of the cooperatives, through the dissolution of the cooperatives itself. We have made a proposal in committee and we will repeat it so that it can be heard better. If you wanted to somehow strengthen cooperatives from private capital, you could provide for the conclusion of programme agreements between cooperatives and private individuals, with specific objectives, with specific commitments for both parties, as another form of public-private partnership, in a spirit of free economy, in a win-win relationship where everyone would have a role to do and a benefit to gain. Another proposal would also be to encourage the already members of cooperatives to buy more shares and to strengthen their cooperation on their own, without the participation of third parties. That would be an act of freedoms and proof of the state's trust in the cooperatives, as you say you intend to show with this bill. Collaboration, ladies and gentlemen, is an association of people with a social and economic objective. With this bill, the social nature of the cooperatives is lost. The cooperative is treated by the provisions of this bill as an undertaking for the sole purpose of survival and the profit of a small number of involved parties. There is no provision for the training of cooperatives, which is one of the cooperative authorities. We also consider that the second cooperative principle for democratic control by members of the articles of chapters ε "Agricultural cooperative administration", Articles 11 to 20, is violated. The quorum of one fifth of the members following the failure of the first convening of the General Assembly raises many questions about how the decisions and representativeness to be taken will be taken. With regard to the financial management provisions of cooperatives, in particular Articles 26 and 32, which deal with the surpluses - profits of the cooperative and the distribution of the cooperative property and its conversions to capital companies, I would like to point out that the distribution of profits to members and the distribution of the cooperative property puts at risk all the tax-exemptive provisions that the state provides to agricultural cooperatives. The conversion of the cooperative into an S.E. the participation of third parties is not possible because the cooperatives have undisclosed assets or assets of generations. A great deal of concern to us, on which we have given a special basis in the debate on the draft law to the committee responsible, is the compensation of former workers from the cooperatives in liquidation. The bill does not provide any provision for the privileged satisfaction of these people, who are thousands throughout Greece, since the cooperatives being liquidated are more than a hundred. The Minister knows - he admitted it to the committee too - that there is a problem and that a settlement must be made on the basis of the code of civil procedure on the order of satisfaction of the bankruptcy. The State must therefore, in any way, pay the sums of dismissal allowances and the sums paid to the former workers of agricultural cooperatives in liquidation, who are mainly over fifty years old and are unable to find a new job to feed their families. We also want to stress that there is no provision in this article to represent workers at the administrative boards of cooperatives. When we talk about a cooperative, we are talking about a form of enterprise in the social economy area. It is inconceivable that workers should not be involved in administrations. With regard to the single tertiary body provided for in Article 38, we were the first to support it. Of course there must be a strong single representation of the agricultural sector, which is the expression of the agricultural movement, but we disagree with the definition of representatives in the general assembly. In our view, it is undemocratic to judge the number of votes according to the members' turnover. Finally, with regard to the ministerial amendments tabled for the tacotic programme, we are of course also saying yes about the responsibility of administrative agricultural cooperative organisations. This is a proposal of our own, which was constantly rejected by the previous government, so we are in favour. The Change Movement has also tabled an amendment to the limit of members of the Forest Cooperatives Recommendation, which you told the Committee that it was the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. But it's okay. We will continue to demand a reduction in the number of members required, because forest cooperatives and particularly in small and medium-sized areas are a pillar of economic and environmental development. As far as the amendment to the GSP is concerned, I would like to make it a little more clear whether recruitment is going through an SAEP procedure. Finally, we will table an amendment to the JEIG. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u14	Good. We move on with our colleague Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u15	The title of the bill may be: ‘Agricultural Cooperatives and other provisions’, but in essence it is the typical death of agricultural cooperatives and their conversion to capital companies. Of course, it didn't happen abruptly. Over the last few decades they have become and functioned with the characteristics of anonymous companies. The common agricultural policy and the laws of the governments have contributed to this. As a result, small and medium-sized farmers were treated as customers from which they were making money. Instead of helping them to improve their family farms, their income and their lives as a whole in each region and, of course, their administrations have put back on them, to walk the European Community's policy, to bury agricultural policy, and to take the burial as subsidies, or to restructure, which did not serve the various regions and the small and medium-sized farmers, but to dismantle them, in order to make capitalist farms happen. They have also been used as rushphotological mechanisms of party authorities and the governments concerned. That was their supposed development and that is why they were degenerated and bankrupt in the consciousness of farmers and society. Exceptions exist, but they're minimal. Moreover, the majority of them held a hostile attitude to any form of racing and rural activity to survive and satisfy fair demands concerning the high cost of production, the degrading producer prices, the repayment, the tachypical banking policy, the tax-paying of the state, the reinsurance policy on plant and animal production, as well as social security of the agricultural family and others. The PASOK laws, and then SYRIZA, have not only interrupted this course, but contributed in this direction, because they were implementing European Community policy aimed at destroying and eliminating small and medium-sized farms and creating the great rural capitalist enterprise. The previous law of SYRIZA was the one who put out the window, without voting rights, the commercial capital, and in some cases the cooperative storekeepers and other places are already used by them. So let the Civic Opposition not be innocent pigeon. Open the way. Of course the bank's capital has been activated, too. With a bank that you gave it for free - ATE - but also with a particular private person, they actually collect all the information and personal data of the farmers and these do not belong to the Ministry of Rural Development, as they should. Of course, the games that are played are well known. This bill comes with the charismatic shot. In agricultural cooperatives, by name, you will maintain it, with quick pacemakers in full, you create capital companies, and you call it the principle of freedom, to hide that it is the principle of mockery or because you have tools that you use and are not tools for attracting small and medium-sized farmers, but large investors. Already since the first article, you fly to garbage and this urban definition of agricultural cooperative with the cooperative authorities, you are able to become members of the cooperatives, natural and legal persons, as are the previous law of SYRIZA, agricultural enterprises SA, RES, etc., as well as partnerships with business groups. In fact, it is clearly stated about matters that are not regulated by this law, then the provisions on public limited liability companies and the Civil Code will apply. The public limited liability company is an association of capital, whereas the cooperative was considered as an association of persons. Now, you want it to happen. Investors may participate in the cooperative up to 35% of the mandatory shares and votes, while the investors only have one share. At the same time, with Article 13, investors can hold a general meeting alone, since the first general meeting does not count in the quorum and 50% plus 1% is required in the deferral, all count in the quorum, without any limit of participation. In other words, investors with their presence alone will be able to obtain quorum and do whatever they want. You are also providing them with opportunities to buy their shares obsessed, compared to the farmers - members. Just a pair of them. In other words, they will be able to control the composition and decisions of deferral of a general assembly and they are usually deferred. However, you also guarantee them other privileges that are essentially motivated, where even the Scientific Committee of the House in its report criticizes you, with tax exemptions, with financing, development laws, tax-free surpluses, tax-free profit-sharing dividends with 5% distribution even of cooperative property, which is unacceptable, since the cooperative assets created by tax-free reserves, not distributed, by many generations of cooperatives and cannot self-evidently be fruited with the latter. Investors may also participate in actions or operations that are competitive with the agricultural cooperative, which are members. In other words, they can also undermine him and destroy him, because they will benefit their profitability. This proves the abundance of agricultural cooperatives, by capitalist investors directly and quickly, and this is your real goal. Eventually, it's not a co-operative of funds, it's capital. The votes are shared according to the turnover and the cooperatives under EUR 500 000 do not have a vote in the National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives. What to do, poorness, you're actually shooting at her. But let him realize it, because it is the great power. What will happen objectively. What will happen is that the agricultural cooperatives who now survive in competition have no incentive to put investors in control, i.e. to take the keys. Only in cases of collusion of the board of directors with alleged investors can this happen. However, it enables the various investors to make new agricultural cooperatives, supplying around the farmers - members, so that they can obtain the raw material they want. Besides, they don't need much. Nine, they're making it. So they don't have to have brokers and give real estate. At the same time, any investment tax and other incentives are being given to the agricultural cooperative and, of course, any infrastructure is being provided with packings, financing, tax exemptions, printing, warehouses, etc., fruits. This whole situation has been prepared for years. Step by step, with any change in the cooperative law, the situation is getting worse in order to serve the commercial and banking capital. This is also served by the reduction in the number of founding agricultural cooperatives from twenty to a hundred members and a portion of EUR 1,000. What small and medium-sized one has to pay that much money when the majority of the farms are indebted? 50% is uninsured, because it does not have to pay the EUR 1.300 insurance contribution, and now with the new insurance, you are increasing it further. It is interesting, however, that none of the bodies actually called did agree with the active entry of entrepreneurs, except for the majority rapporteur. We therefore ask that you withdraw the provisions for investors. Even if it is voted on, however, we say it clearly, the JRC will call on existing cooperatives not to approve, in their statutes and in their operation, the entry of investors. But we also say to farmers that they are not involved in new forms along with investors, processors and traders who are their exploiters, their opponents. In general, with this bill, the Government of New Democracy seeks to complete what the former governments left in the middle, and in particular the SYRIZA Government. In other words, the clearing of the situation in agricultural cooperatives, the final solution and the liquidation of those who were unable to survive and relocate their property to create a clear framework for the action of business groups and farmers in agricultural production, processing and marketing of agricultural products. Around them, they will be bound, until thousands of bio-populist farmers are destroyed for as long as their products are in need of raw materials in their profitability, thus facilitating the concentration of production, marketing, processing and subsidies in a few hands. Moreover, the dominance of large business units of the globes will lead to the intensity of the exploitation of wage earners on earth, the difficulty of survival and, ultimately, the dismantling, the destruction of self-employed farmers. So we are voting against your bill as a catastrophic one for the majority of the farm. However, we say that there is a solution that helps many and combats poverty, unemployment and extinction. It is the central scientific design to satisfy people's nutrition, to ensure raw materials for the development of industrial production, by exploiting all the productive potential the country has, the comparative advantages, territorial and climatic, know-how, science, with the protection of the public health and natural resources management. With the creation of the agricultural production cooperative of small-scale farmers, which will be part of socialised production. They will exploit all the state infrastructure that has the right to use the socialised land, as a productive instrument and not as a commodity. Thus, production costs will be reduced by common crop care, product collection and rural income will be guaranteed, with state prices set, with protection against natural disasters, with scientific technical support. Small and fragmented rural small-scale property is thus transformed into large-scale cooperatives, exempting small and medium-sized farmers once and for all from capital, banks, industrialists, large-scale traders. Such planning requires the socialisation of the capitalist farms on the earth, the mechanised means of production, the state infrastructure and trade, with their direct integration into the central, national, scientific design for the organisation of the economy, which will, of course, operate to the benefit of the people. This is the socialist way of producing that is of benefit to the working class, the populace, the self-employed farmers, and the power of capital, the urban parties and their governments are being undermined. As far as ministerial amendments are concerned, some articles have been made. I'm coming to the tacosy. It must be done by public services, staffed with permanent staff, without any burden on farmers and, of course, not on private contractors, by charging the producers a fee. For the amendment on the responsibilities of cooperative boards, we say that there is a problem, because they fell outside cooperatives and according to the law the administrations have responsibilities. But this will happen again in capitalism. That's how it's done. However, the suspension provided for in an amendment is general and concerns those who have made irregularities and their case is pending. You facilitate them by inhibitions and by delaying the procedures, because you do not distinguish the freshness from the dry. So we won't agree. We have also tabled two amendments concerning cooperative workers. You said you'd bring something too. These are contracted, indemnified and others entitled by cooperatives in liquidation, and we are asking through this amendment for quicker integration and for workers to be given priority in order to receive their demands, but also in order to ensure work for the new cooperatives, since these people have experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u16	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u17	I'm closing, Mr. President. Furthermore, in order to address the massive phenomenon of redundancies and difficulties in guaranteeing their retirement, we are proposing that the provisions of the former fund of the CEEC should be exempted until the end of the year. This will cover and provide special support for older workers. One last amendment we have tabled is a request from the people in Lower Souli to ensure modern infrastructure and quality housing, according to the a.d. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We therefore call on colleagues to vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u18	The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos Vassiliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will start by saying that when we say, as Greek Solution, in the word home, especially today with what is happening in Evros and the Aegean islands, in the context of the migratory hybrid war that Turkey has declared to us since the summer, we are certainly not stirring up nationalist, racial, xenophobic or anything else that the parties of the Memorandum Arc want to provoke, obviously for their party conflict or to cover their financial crimes. We are simply talking about our home and the space our ancestors lived in, where we live and want our children to live freely. In this respect, we would be happy to help, as we can, anyone who is knocking on the door to our house and asking us to do so, but not those who want to sneak through the window, breaking the windows and serving Turkey, who wants to turn us into a satellite, dragging us into The Hague and taking us half the Aegean with our islands. We have, however, a long time ago, referred to the solutions available to us. Among other things, we have referred to the appeal made by Article 78 of Maastricht to declare our country in an emergency. In conclusion, I would like to ask the government a question, hoping it is not naive. Those who are arrested at the border in Evros, as far as we know, are led to detention. Why is nothing similar with the islands? Are there two yards, two stations, or am I wrong? In our debate on the CAP, we have discussed our views in detail by submitting them to the relevant section, along with the positions of the Greek solution for the primary sector in detail. Their main element is the need for central planning, because otherwise it is not possible to develop the agricultural sector properly, as the government should know, which is unfortunately not the case. The first committee referred more generally to the primary sector, stressing, among other things, that the planet has entered a completely new rural era. In this respect, in order for the modern farmer to produce at competitive prices, he should use many services and supplies, which were not necessary in the past, while forming together with the work and all other factors, the final cost of the products. We also said that most of these supplies are imported into Greece from other countries, with the result that for every single euro that farmers receive from the sale of their products about 0.90 cents to be driven out of the country, saying exactly where. We continued, saying that the primary sector in Greece, despite the mistakes of the past, with its processing, as well as the services and supplies mentioned above, has a huge potential for profitable investment and development, its tripling on the basis of Denmark or its fivefold approach to France, leaving it first outside the Netherlands, among other things, because the huge exports of the Netherlands, which were at EUR 101 billion in 2017, are mainly due to the fact that it has become a modern centre for the movement of agricultural products imported from other countries. This could, of course, also be achieved by our country, investing in modern infrastructures and fuelling its surrounding region, from the Balkans to the Middle East. We completed that the closest example to Greece is Israel, which before 1960 produced absolutely nothing, while the lack of water that had made its use for crops, which were naturally minimal because of its territorial structure - deserts and stones in most of it - as well as its climate conditions. A few decades later, however, he managed to produce in sand with the help of modern greenhouses, as well as shading networks, summer greenhouses in some way. These networks prevent insect pathogens while allowing only part of the solar radiation to enter. It is, however, unacceptable that Greece has only thirty thousand acres of greenhouses, when only Almeria in Spain has allocated six hundred thousand acres, while the secret of the Netherlands is also greenhouses, so that agricultural production is not affected by the climatic conditions. Finally, we pointed out that the bill we believe to be being voted on because the European Union and the new agricultural policy favours strengthening cooperatives, noting that the European Union's financial contribution under Article 46 of the CFP amounts to 50% of the expenditure actually incurred by associations and cooperatives. In the second committee, we began with the observation that cooperative legislation in Greece is fragmented, so that many different laws are laid down at regular intervals for the various types of cooperatives. This multiplicity does not suit our needs, but instead reflects institutional fragmentation with different competent ministries and supervisory authorities per type of cooperative. This reality does not benefit cooperatives in Greece, making partnerships between different types of cooperatives and creating a collective identity. In addition, frequent changes in the law of individual cooperatives and, in particular, agricultural cooperatives create an extremely unstable institutional environment, which makes it difficult to develop them in the rural area, to cooperate together and to cooperate with other types of cooperatives, despite the international discrepancies of a trend towards unification of the cooperative field. Therefore, our position and pursuit must be the consolidation and simplification of cooperative legislation in Greece, while at the same time highlighting their names as brand name and not continuing to fragment it and its constant changes. With regard to this draft law, and this is not a bill that favours the financing and control of cooperatives from private capital, without solving the huge problems of agricultural cooperatives, such as opacity in the decisions of members of the board of directors and their defective democratic functioning, their poor financial soundness due to limited cooperation between members and limited capacity utilisation. It also does not solve the bureaucratic obstacles in their creation and operation, the limited innovation it characterizes, their interconnection with markets and their attachment to a coherent agricultural policy, the inadequate use of the potential of young people with knowledge and skills, since no incentive is given for their integration into agricultural cooperatives. To continue, in the last committee, we have referred to all articles one by one, with findings of their mistakes and with detailed proposals for each, which we shall be tabling for the Minutes together with our conclusions from all of the articles in the bill, so that we do not repeat ourselves. The Minister has, however, promised to answer us after he has studied them, so perhaps this will make it easier. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In any case, one understands from the multipurpose references and from our program how important the Greek Solution gives the primary sector the transformation of it, assuming that together with the industry it should be the backbone of a new and healthy economic model that our country needs to get away from the crisis, so that it can finally produce real wealth without which it is impossible to solve the chronic problems of our country, such as pension, employment, demographic, Brain Drain, defence, security, etc. Today we are going to refer to other issues, starting with the finding that the bill is one of the recommendations of the "internationalism", which in May 2019 had published a study entitled "A new model of partnership for the primary sector in Greece", proposing that cooperatives be set up. One of the main findings of the study relates to the size of agricultural holdings in Greece, which is small, with limited productivity, always in the 'international' and low investment. I will not go into the individual articles, because it makes no sense. If, however, we compare the study of 'internationalism' with Eurostat statistics, as we have to testify for the Minutes along with their source - and the Commission, things are not so bad for the small Greek farms. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above figures, which are found in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here, we see: First, the average income per unit of work is low in Greece, but not the lowest in the European Union. Secondly, we have a small size of exploitation - under fifty hectares - but relatively small is also the Netherlands - under fifty hectares. What larger farms have Slovakia, the Czech Republic and the United Kingdom, while in some other Eurostat statistics the average size of economic exploitation appears higher for the Netherlands, but rather it is due to the combinations and cooperatives. Thirdly, the value added per unit of work is low in Greece, but not much below the European Union average. Strangely enough, and the land yield on Greek farms is high, almost 6%, higher than the Netherlands, which is marginally positive. Fourthly, what is not often perceived in Greece is that productivity is a function of the product. Higher productivity appears in the expensive products of flowering, such as in the Netherlands, wine and livestock, where Greece does not, unfortunately, have much. This explains why the Netherlands produces 1,700 euros per acre, while Greece only EUR 190, although the Dutch model of over-exploitation is considered problematic for health reasons. What interest in Greece is the model of Israel with a productivity of 1,290 euros per acre, compared with just 190 euros per acre of Greece. In the case of the cooperatives we are considering today, however, the Dutch model is of particular importance, since it is one of the main factors of the success of the country and of thousands of small family farms that distinguish it, but combined with the care of the state, as well as with the special University of Baginingen, which is considered to be the leading Agricultural Research Foundation in the world. Cooperation between universities and industry entrepreneurs is a key element in innovation, and in this direction various modern methods have contributed, such as the use of special lighting that allows for 24-hour cultivation in greenhouses, with controlled atmosphere regulation. Thus, between 2003 and 2014 vegetable production in the Netherlands increased by 28%, energy use decreased by 6%, pesticide use by 9% and fertiliser use by 29%. Indicative is the example of the production company 'IBERIA', where each in-health cavity delivers both lettuce and about ten entire acres in the countryside, while the need for chemicals has been reduced by 97%. Finally, statistics substantiate that cooperatives have better returns than independent holdings, but lower than the companies. We will submit for the Minutes a series of graphs with their sources to document all of the points we have mentioned. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above figures, which are found in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, according to the explanatory statement of today's bill, there are four thousand five hundred agricultural cooperatives in Greece, about half of whom, two thousand eighty, are inactive. The National Register of Agricultural Cooperatives and other collective bodies is only eight hundred nine. In addition, collaborativeness has one of the worst rates in Greece. With less than 8% of the population being a member, when in the Netherlands, France and Scandinavia more than 50%. Everywhere in our country we have a problem of cooperation, both in politics and in all other institutions. If we do not resolve this issue, Greece will not have a future. Here, therefore, we must seek solutions from the government and nowhere else and certainly not the size of the individual crops in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u20	Well, the circle of speakers is over with my colleague, Ilias - Kriton Arsenis, who I call at the Step from Mera25. Then the Minister will take the floor and then it is the alternating five of the colleagues, because Mr Lambroulis asked to speak tomorrow, which I call them: it is Mr Lazarides, Mr Igoumenides, Mr Constantopoulos, Mr Bubas and Mrs Adamopoulou. Then it'll go in the order of directory. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you really allow a great deal of flexibility to our farmers. They can choose between a S.A. cooperative. and EIA cooperative. Because the heart of this bill and your goal is to privatise cooperatives. What for? Greece has an agricultural sector that has raised the countryside, paid good income, especially in the 1980s and 90s to farmers, kept the citizens in the villages, away from the cities and from the over-concentration that is counter-developing. But at the moment for neoliberalism has a great problem. He's sharing wealth with a lot of people. It shares any agricultural wealth we have in many. And what your government is advocating is the gathering. The aim, as in other sectors of activity, is, as we see, that public and private companies should gradually become workers of contracted companies with no rights in practice, with little rights. People who work in the private sector with a certain level of wages are again replaced by people employed by contractors. So penthouses become semi-peripheral. In fact, the model we see before us is a model where no one born poor or in the middle class will be able to go to the middle urban order or stay there. That's the model we have in front of us. And that's what you're bringing us. Bill, bill. A major issue is conventional agriculture. It's just the key to turning the farmer from a free professional who's in practice on a worker. We have an example of America. And I'm going to go to the livestock sector where 70% of farmers involved in contract farming in the livestock sector have incomes that bring them to the limit or below the poverty line, at the same time that the entire sector is controlled by four companies that earn over 4 billion. Anyone who reacts from the four-company monopoly. And we really would like you, colleagues from SYRIZA, to tell us your position on conventional agriculture, because we feel that in your own governance the intensification of contractual agriculture has unfortunately continued. So, the aim is to make farmers workers and cooperatives. It is a prerequisite for all farmers to become cooperatives. It is precisely because in the common agricultural policy in Article 46 we have the great support of agricultural cooperatives - what the agricultural cooperatives are really, covering 50% of the expenditure from the CAP, which is why we have already come to this debate, which is why it is time for this government to give full control of agricultural cooperatives to the companies, to take advantage of this measure - not one party or one body to be consulted does not agree with this measure, by privatising agricultural cooperatives. Minister, I see you're not concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u22	Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u23	Because you know exactly what you're doing. I know. You have a clear target in this bill that has nothing to do with agricultural cooperatives, but it has to do with private capital for the concentration. The key to the case here is the Agricultural Bank which broke it in two - the previous governments and the New Democracy Government in this game - and at the moment a large part of the co-operatives' property, a large part of farmers' property, is in the hands of multinationals. Now we're going for what he's left over. The trick is simple. We have private companies that can buy up to 35% of the cooperative's shares, thus providing liquidity to the cooperatives - obviously cooperatives that thirst for this liquidity - and at any time the individual can do something very simple, ask to leave the cooperative and have the cooperative to liquidate this amount and give it back to him. This means immediate liquidation of the cooperative's property. It's so simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u24	What you're telling us now is there? Do you read the article?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u25	Sure. Is it true, Minister, that if the investor who comes and has 35% of the shares calls for the money to leave the cooperative, they must immediately be given to him, as would any other partner?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u26	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u27	He played and lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u28	What article?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u29	Read Article 7.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u30	The congressman says yes. "He played and lost," said your Member. So I guess I see that for you it's not clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u31	Read Article 7.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u32	I would like you to read it to us then. As far as the vote is concerned, you say that 35% is not 50%, but you know very well that when there is no quorum, the second meeting on the board is simply taking decisions with the existing majority. So this man who has 35% - because he's a man, a VDU, a company - will finally control the cooperatives, because you obviously know that in such collective bodies there is a quorum with the first meeting. Also, do something else very complicated with this arrangement. Fortunately there are citizens in Greece who will buy a product and prefer to buy a brand from another because it is cooperative and because that is their vision for society. Right now these people won't be allowed to know what they're buying. They buy a S.E. cooperative. Or a healthy cooperative? You may, by virtue of Article 29, convert a cooperative into another undertaking without care for the property of the cooperative. In Article 34, as I mentioned, you give the cooperatives the form only S.A. and the EIA is lacking here, and the possibilities indicated by international practice of setting up associations with economic purpose under the legal form of socially-policy-based cooperatives and federations in a collective legal form are the models that occur mainly in France, Spain and Portugal. And these are the principles that are in line with the sixth cooperative principle. My question is this. These cooperatives, as you create them, the S.A. cooperatives. with your many articles will be eligible for funding from the common agricultural policy? Have you discussed with the committee on these matters, on this bill, and whether they can be chosen to finance and meet their needs by 50%? If the problems of cooperatives in the past were corruption, I wonder why the abolition of restrictions on your bill for the two terms of office of cooperative presidents is meant to be. In addition, in Article 26, we call for a ban, in addition to what we have noted, on the distribution of profits to members as a fundamental component of the distinct identity of cooperatives. We believe that profits should go to a regular reserve, and when the undistributed reserve reaches a total amount of compulsory dividends, then the general meeting may decide to use the percentage of profits for social benefit actions. For fisheries cooperatives, because people came to committee, although there was a reaction and resistance to coming, they came and presented us with their peculiarity. Even with the model you prefer, I think you will agree that they should be excluded, because they are very small cooperatives in size and the implementation of the provisions will create a serious problem in the management of the seas. Of course, because you too are a government that has been elected with less than 30% of the votes of Greek citizens in fact and you are completely controlling this government and you can go through what you want, you will go ahead. But even in the monocracies there are limits. I would just like to mention the events that have taken place in this period and one that has escaped a little from public attention, what has happened in the Warm of Lesvos. On Sunday, the Port left a boat with too many refugees and too many children and babies crying in a mob that was struggling, devouring and threatening the lives of the people who were in there. The port ship stayed a little below and then left. The question is clear. Has SGS been launched for the men of the port? Who gave the order to leave the port ship? Has the political leadership been informed? But what do we ask a government that has come to criminalize asylum? The question, however, is: If we, Minister and ladies and gentlemen of the government, find ourselves in the refugee situation at some point, what will happen to us in this reality that we create in our actions every day? Because the wheel has been shot, the poor and frustrated know that and that is why solidarity exists. The strengths you support, feel that they can control all this and these difficulties over it because they have money or power. It's this arrogance that's beyond history. Solidarity is not just an act that you're doing because you're in touch with your heart and yourself and this man inside you. It's an act because you know that when you're in a difficult position, you want to be treated. Because in life, and that can happen, and I think that these principles are being trampled over with what is happening in Greece right now, and I ask you to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u33	First of all, as I said, the floor has been requested and the Minister will be given. Two colleagues from the first half of the year, Mr Lambroulis from the JRC and Mrs Adamopoulos from Mera25, asked to speak tomorrow and will be last on the list. In these two posts, the first of the lists is Mr Famelos and Mr Anastasiades. So after the Minister, we're going in the order: Lazaridis, Igoumenides, Konstantopoulos, Bubas, Famelos, Anastasiades. Minister, you have the floor. And I give you a little more time to respond to the Members' amendments too, perhaps what you will accept or not, the Members' amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, while we are discussing this bill, it is clear that our thoughts, our solidarity, our strengthening and our moral militarism are with the people, men and women, the Greek Police, the Greek Army, the Port Authority, who are at the moment defending the borders of Greece from an asymmetrical threat, which is completely organized and which is fully integrated into the plans of Turkey and the geopolitical games that it wants to play. I am impressed that there is another approach to this issue, because Turkey's work on this issue is confessed. It's completely integrated into its objectives. I wonder whether there are today powers that say that the answer to this job is the removal of Greece's geopolitical role, the elimination of its role as a defender of European borders and, in fact, the policy of abolishing borders, with only possible - one of the hardest who formulate this position - a record. I am impressed that this will, in fact, be a consensus and partnership in Turkey's plans, which I think, in this Chamber, should be specifically denounced because they are doing so with such a sensitive and critical issue. I'm coming to the cooperatives. First of all, it is important, ladies and gentlemen, because I hear many criticisms and criticisms, to see what the legal and legislative environment is in which this legislative initiative by the government comes and manifests itself. Let me say this differently: what are we waiting for from the creation of an institutional framework? Those who swear on the value of cooperatives - I am not saying that we all swear in the Chamber too - I assume that what they want to do is have a legislative framework that will help strengthen the cooperative space. That is what we need to see if it eventually helps or prevents, works enhancements or not. I'm not saying it's the only factor, but it's a factor. This must be our debate in this Chamber. SYRIZA had indeed shown his legislative interest in this matter and passed a relevant law. From the small limited legislative action of SYRIZA in the rural part - four and a half years, if I remember correctly, were three laws - one of the three laws, it was the law on agricultural cooperatives that was passed in 2016. So it's been getting results ever since. I just want to give you some information which we receive on the issue of the legal relationship and the result to be achieved. What should be the result to be achieved? The creation of cooperatives, therefore the increase in the number of active cooperatives, as well as the increase in cooperative farmers, through a good law that helps in this, but also the increase in turnover. In other words, we need to see the turnover that goes through the cooperatives as a whole. If we accept that there is a link between the legislation and the financial result or the outcome of the association, we can finally see how this law worked. So I read, ladies and gentlemen: 'Members of cooperatives in 2017, one year after the entry into force of the law: a hundred thirty thousand six hundred and twenty-four. Members in 2018: ninety-eight thousand fifty-eight’. They were thirty-two thousand fewer members after the law was implemented. What was the net number of cooperatives? How many cooperatives were founded and how many cooperatives moved into an inactive situation? ‘New cooperatives established in 2017: seventy. New cooperatives founded in 2018: thirty. Number of cooperatives that were informed in 2017: eight hundred ten nineteen. Number of cooperatives that were informed in 2018: six hundred twenty-one". Do a little arithmetic fat and you will see that during the operation of SYRIZA law three hundred cooperatives in a total of eight hundred, have moved into the state inactive. These were the beneficial effects of SYRIZA law!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Voridis, you're falsifying numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Apostle, what do I do? Unfortunately, the numbers are always...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u37	And don't forget the liquidation process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u38	No connection to the liquidation process, but thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Apostle, you're old. You are a parliamentary representative. You're going up to the Step and you're going to answer Mr. Voridis. Don't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u40	I would like to thank Mr Apostlelos for his fruitful speech. It enables us to deepen and indeed deepen. So we're moving on. Turnover. In 2017 six hundred forty - three cooperatives had a turnover of up to one million. Watch out. A total of eight hundred nineteen cooperatives. In 2018, after the legislature, six hundred forty-three had become four hundred eighty-three. One hundred and forty-six cooperatives in 2017 had turnovers from 1 to 9 million. They, in 2018, had become a hundred and ten. And we're going to the bigs, that's over 9 million. These were forty in 2017 and twenty-three in 2018. In all sizes, in the number of cooperative farmers, in the turnover, in the number of cooperatives, we have collapsed from 2016 to 2018. That is the situation you have given us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u41	Do we have any previous evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u42	These are the elements after the law of 2016. That's what I'm comparing. Because when you legislate, I suppose, Mr Arachovitis, you legislate to get things better. You legislated, and it went worse. I can't go to the previous legislature, go to 2011 or go back yet. I am looking at your own legislative intervention. So I say that your legislative intervention has these specific figures. But Mr. Apostolos tells me that there are six thousand inactive cooperatives. Sure. But I didn't tell you about them. I told you about the active ones. I'm talking to you about the eighteen active, with turnover in 2017, which became six hundred twenty-one in 2018. That's what I'm talking about. Leave the four thousand -- it's not six thousand -- where it is. So, then, to get to know ourselves, because we hear frustrations and struggles. I also want to tell you this. I have heard a lot about the opposition of various bodies and they do not agree with the bill. Yes, sir. Some people oppose it. They have their opinions. But who do they consent to? That's not what you told us. Organised collective bodies representing cooperatives are consented. In other words, those who are interested in the bill and whom it regulates, they consent. Some other people are, indeed, opposed. So let's go see who's consenting and who's against. We have two main players today in Greece, representing collective cooperatives, NEW PASPEGES and SASOE. They were called and both came to speak to the committee. What did Mr. Satolias, one of the two representatives of the NEW PASPEGES, say about the bill? It says in the introduction of private investors: 'Under conditions, we would like to say that we agree, because it is being implemented. Some may say that the model is unsuccessful, but you can also achieve, under conditions." I come back and say: So, since it is possible, can the cooperative decide to put the private investor on its own or not? "Yes, however, under conditions that will not alter cooperative thinking and will not affect the assembly because of the financial narrowness to make wrong decisions." That's what Mr. Satolias says. Let's see what Mr. Katsoulis spokesperson of the UNSCR. ‘Article 6 for investors is in the right direction. Let us make it clear that this possibility is not only provided to private investors, but also to investors, Greek or European cooperatives. There was the possibility to participate in a private investor, without the right to elect and be elected to the cooperative bodies, which led to the non-participation of the institutions. Because quite simply, no one puts their money in order for someone else to manage it without their own involvement and control," the two bodies that express their cooperatives in Greece tell us. These two exist. Now, a question is born. Cooperatives want it. What's your problem? What's with that? Where's your point? As they all want the arrangements that come with the bill. Why do they want them? As a whole, Mr Arachovitis referred to the existing regulation, the regulation proposed by SYRIZA, described it as 'paternalistic'. So, just to say it, what does it say? It says that they had foreseen everything in the law, that they had been regulated by the law and left very little margin and discretion to the cooperative farmers to decide on their own behalf, in their statutes, what they are going to do for their work, for their cooperatives. This is the SYRIZA paternalism that led to these results. And what are we coming, ladies and gentlemen, and are we doing with this bill? Indeed, we do something perfectly consistent with our principles and values. We reiterate the value of freedom in cooperatives. These are our values, that is what we are defending, that is what we do with this bill! [[Applause from the front of the new Republic]] In short, to decode it, what do we say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u43	That's a big difference. Our distance, Mr. Voridis, is very long.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u44	Hey, alas. Make my cross stay like this. Imagine ending up converging with you. Deep concern would take us. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] But be careful. Here you need to come and explain. Beyond the objective failure, you must explain this. Why do you think the state knows better how to regulate relations between the partners? Why, Mr Apostle, Mr Arachovitis - and I do not say it personally to God, I do not need a personal answer, but you have recommended the law, you have been ministers and you have developed your argument now - do you think that you two or even the government bodies and agencies of the Ministry know better what should be done in the Lakonia EHA than the people in Laconia?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u45	Why do you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u46	We call it back, Mrs. Tyloridou. You don't even know what we're talking about. We call it backwards. They must decide on their statutes! That's what we're saying. Do not decide the state in its regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u47	But you're keeping the paternalistic provisions. Why are you holding them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u48	I'll tell you. That is why this bill was clearly accepted, and indeed with the reservations that it fulfils 80% and 90% of what emerged from the consultation between the Ministry and the collective organizations of the cooperative area. So why did these happen? You asked me: 'Why do you abolish the two terms of office?' Answer. Because we want them to decide for themselves. If they want, and three and four terms to have a president. It's their co-operative. If they like to take him out fourteen times. It's so simple. They know their interests. They know the financial results of the administrations. They know and they have to control. Even the dangerous position I heard from Mr Arachovite was this. Because - be careful - I come to the matter of the private investor. Why do we put it on? What is it that caused such great and terrible criticism? There is a reality at the moment in the rural area, and it is impressive that while, for example, from the side of Mera25, Mr Arsenis finds the phenomenon, it comes to the very opposite conclusion from what we conclude. What does it say, like a little - very close? ‘But there is a great entrance to private capital in the area of production, primary production’. Indeed, today because of the single market at European Union level, but also because of the bilateral trade treaties or multilateral treaties that exist, very large markets are actually being formed. Where very large markets are formed there is obviously an entrance to private capital. So we come to say: in this competitive environment, the cooperatives can survive? Are we going to give them tools to keep them? Does Mr Arsenis detect the problem and what does he say, as does SYRIZA? 'No, we should not give them any tools', that is to say, to look at it happen, but not to give them the slightest opportunity to act defenders. They say, "But, you know, if they have a financing problem, they can find somewhere else". I won't say where else in Greece. Loaning, like? For that, if I say it about cooperatives, you realize it's a little in the blanket. However, I have heard the solution proposed by Mr Arachovitis to make a development bank. I won't say the obvious if you've done it. I won't say if no one was financed. I'm not going to tell how much loans this development bank has granted, how well this job that you had on the scaffold has gone. Not to say that, because the answer is known. Nothing, nothing. They didn't make it. Four and a half years wasn't enough. So the next one. I say, however, that one of the main tools - which is not a loan, because the loan is costing, because the loan has conditions, because the loan can be taken, but one may not get it - is to be able from somewhere to find funds to work. What do we say here? Watch your embarrassment, too. They provide for the private investor in the 2016 Act. It exists as an institution. Question: What have you got him for if you don't want? Do what?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Satolias told you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u50	Oh, no. Mr. Satolias didn't talk about...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u51	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u52	Listen. Please. Don't confuse things. I accept that confusion is good and that it is not appropriate. Do not confuse the possibility of the acquisition of optional shares mentioned by Mr Satolias, which is indeed a limited type of financing mechanism, with the existence of the private investor that you have established. And a voluntary portion you had, as is the law and private investor you had, as is the case with the law. My question is: Since you didn't like the private investor, what did you put it?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u53	Participation was...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u54	So you put him. But here's how they put him, because they put him, um, so it doesn't work. They put him as an institution, recognizing his value obviously and his functionality, unless you did so only - what can I say now - for the figure we say, to be there, to say that we did something, but not to put the money into the general assembly and to take decisions, not to participate in the board of directors and to take decisions. That investor to meet me, because I haven't met many of them. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Do I have some time, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u55	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much. So be careful: There is this investor. Next question about how effective the regulation is: How many of them have invested between '16 and '20? Guess what. The known zero. How many loans were provided by the development bank? How many new cooperatives were founded? That's what's known. So the result is zero. We come and say this: we will give 35%. Why give 35% and we won't give 25%? In order for a number of decisive decisions, in particular a change in the statute, which is provided for in the law, to be taken by a majority of 2/3, or 66,6, so that the minority is 33,33, that this private investor may have a decisive view by 35. Why would she have a decisive opinion? Because if he's threatened, it's still not going to work. It is therefore the so-called minority rights which we come here to introduce with this law to ensure that the institution is operational, because we believe it and want it to be operational. You are saying: however, this is what is being privatised by the cooperative. Next question: How's it going, since it's a minority? Then the theory begins, because he finds out how to make alliances, and since 35 he's left a little bit to get another 15, and the others won't come and they won't come and participate, so he's gonna run the place alone and all of this. Excuse me. When you're in a collective shape, you have the responsibility of participating in the collective arrangement. Secondly, not only do you have the responsibility of participating, but especially when it comes to your productive activity. Thirdly, let me understand: What are we coming here to say? That the cooperatives are indifferent - that is the assumption - that the cooperatives are not going to engage, that the cooperatives are going to deal with the private sector in the interest of their interests. What can I tell you about this? That means we're going back to your first admission. They don't know, but SYRIZA knows what to do. Partners don't know. SYRIZA knows their good, knows the state their good, they don't. So be careful. Others I hear and engulf panic. He'll be able - he says - to take his money and leave whenever he wants. Where does the law say that? I'm asking, I'm asking again. Article 7(3). ‘The statutes shall lay down the obstacles to membership, and the conditions and conditions for its withdrawal and removal, the minimum duration of their stay and the terms and time of return of the cooperative shares.’ How will he get his money anytime he wants? Whenever the statute says, that is, it will say, not whenever it wants. Whenever they decide jointly to amend the statutes under the conditions to be agreed. How whenever he wants to? Unless he writes in the statutes. I haven't met in my legal course a statute that anyone in any company of the U.N.A., A.E., A.A., who takes his money and leave anytime he wants. I haven't met that. If you're here, ladies, you've met such a shape that someone gets their money, and they're leaving whenever they want you to tell me. But here? That's the agony. He'll take his money -- he says -- and he'll be gone whenever he wants. How will he do that? After the procedure for exiting the statutes has been provided for. There will be a term in the statute that the man who made a million makes a statement, they give him a million and he leaves. Who's going to anticipate this term? What statute have you seen this in?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u57	At the general meeting, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u58	Yes, sir. I, therefore, have read, for thirty years, the statutes of general companies and legal persons once again, that I have not seen this. Now, if the partners make him, what can I tell you? She'll be new. I heard after that: '29 paragraph 8', says, 'it looks at the shocking'. 'It can be done' - it says - 'by decision of the general assembly, the cooperative can be made to another legal person'. Yes, sir. By decision of the General Meeting with 2/3. In other words, the general assembly must again be gathered and said: 'We no longer want to be a cooperative, and we want to be something else. What should we do now?' It gives the ability to convert. Let's have a nice chat. In your law the possibility of converting cooperatives would give you or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u59	Since there wasn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u60	You didn't say that. Conversion, you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u61	In what?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u62	In the relevant article with the increased majority you said conversion.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u63	To what, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u64	Whatever you decide, I'm telling you again. So, in fact, in all these people we are talking about, one is the issue. The question is the difference of understanding. On the one hand you want a shape in which you tell people what to do, and on the other hand we want a shape in which people do want to decide how they want to organise their work and their activity. That is very simple and very clear. And this is a beautiful historical and traditional conflict between left perceptions and right-wing concepts. Clean things. So what we are actually doing is entirely compatible with what we said we would do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u65	Minister, how much more time do you need?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u66	I'll be done in two minutes saying this. Two important interventions. The first, the National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives. Finally, and after a long time we have legislated again, in consultation again, having succeeded in converging our two main actors and institutional partners in this debate, the new CSCE and the CSCE in a text in which it is consolidated to go to a single representation of cooperatives. I have heard a criticism which says that we should not relate to the creation of the general meeting to the turnover, as we are doing here. But the opposite was SYRIZA's 2016 arrangement. It didn't relate to it, but it was related to the people who participated in the cooperative. Therefore, 20 people, a turnover of 5,000 euros, twenty votes. Ten persons, 20 million euro turnover, 10 votes. That's the law SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u67	It's a group of people.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u68	Our law says that cooperatives are economic units and you need to explain why the structure you had in 2016 did not create either a union, not the Union, or a regional association of cooperatives. Not even one. And also, give an explanation to this model. Isn't the model that created the explosion of seal cooperatives that actually led to the malignancy and the collapse of the cooperative space? One of the reasons. So that's right and balanced, that's what's coming up and that's how it's done. Finally, we are temporarily resolving the issue with the cooperative administrations that are responsible for the debts of cooperatives. Because I have heard words about it, to come to an understanding of what the regulation is. Temporary suspension of criminal prosecutions and individual administrative prosecutions for two offences. Not for others. So there's no more to be heard here. Two offenses. Tax liability to the State and liability of insurance contributions. That is why we are giving a temporary five-year suspension not for all cooperatives, but only for those in liquidation. That five-year suspension is therefore linked to the completion of the liquidation. Why are we doing this? The answer is as follows. 'Cause the liquidation's getting late. People are bound to their property. They are going on auctioning individual properties and we are at the risk of this. As soon as the liquidation is completed and possibly the public has been satisfied with the liquidation, their properties will be closed, their property will be committed and they will be condemned to the criminal courts. This delay is absolutely unscrupulous on their part. It is not their fault because they do not have control of clearance. So, in fact, for something that is inconsistent, we go and blame them for heavy, heavy personal responsibilities. I heard one more thing. There is a provision for me that is not self-evident. It connects different things. Is this about some people who had an embezzlement? Oh, no. Do they get rid of the embezzlement? Oh, no. For infidelity? Oh, no. Forgery? Oh, no. For the scam? Oh, no. For no criminal offence. For the two of you I told you about. However, it is limited by a provision even more in scope which says that if for these other offences, which are not inhibited by this law, the law, it is unequivocally condemned to benefit from the other offences against the cooperative. Make it simple. One has been irrevocably convicted of an embezzlement at the expense of the cooperative. He cannot have the privilege of the law of suspension. No self-evident connection, allow me, because it's another offense, another offense. One is punishable as a misappropriation or as a fraud. The other is an economic offense. However, there is this exception. Therefore, the application of the law is still limited on the sole condition that there is an irrevocable decision. I think that our regulation is absolutely right and fair. I have to say that this regulation because it had its consultation has the Prime Minister's seal and is therefore an extremely important regulation. It's a fair thing, it's reasonable, it had to be done. It is something our Government does in trying to dispose of burdens of people who are in fact disobedient precisely because of the cleansing.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u69	Thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u70	I would like the floor for two minutes because Mr Vorides has made too many mentions by name.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u71	Referring to your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u72	Just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u73	Mr Voridis, you are introducing legislation and you are going to interpret them in Parliament as lawyers, as lawyers for certain investors. That is what you have done today and there will be a documented response when we are given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, please. One minute he asked for his voice to be heard. Mr Lazarides from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the women and men of the Armed Forces, the Greek Police, the Port Authority, the Fire Service, the National Guards and the ordinary citizens of Evros and the islands that are self-depressed in the national effort and are facing the Erdogan project. Evros and our islands are no longer a clear vine. I think that both Turkey and Europe understood it well. I now come to today's draft law. Let me share with you a true story. In the American economic crisis of 1987, a group of cereal growers from Minnesota, concerned by the rapid fall in cereal prices, gathered in a café to see how to deal with the situation. What they found was that the price of cereals might fall but saw that the prices of pasta rose. They were also addressed to the local university of Minnesota for know-how about the administrative cooperative structure. The pasta industry "Dakota Growers Pasta Company" which evolved into the second largest pasta production plant in the United States in the 1990s. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately similar success stories in our country are rather the exception that confirms the rule. And what's the rule? We all know him. The cooperative schemes in Greece, instead of reflecting the dynamism of production, the diversity of our crops, the wealth of our soils and, of course, the quality of our products, are inextricably linked to the structural pathogens of the industry. This is very clearly reflected in the well-known survey of the NEEOS, to which our rapporteur referred, according to which Greek cooperatives have experienced constant political intervention since the 1980s, less than 1/5 of the cooperatives had even a subtle economic presence and failed cooperatives have come to owe the sum of 2.4 billion euros. Simple, self-evident conclusion: The cooperative model proved to be a failure, as it combined and linked to the state-owned perception, collapsed, created huge debts and ultimately even devalued the farmers themselves. The question, however, which we all have to ask ourselves, is what do we do about it? The first thing we have to do is catch the bull from the horns. And the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has never learned to hide behind her finger. After all, it is another undertaking that is being made. So today, with this draft law, we are moving the cooperatives away from addiction to public policy in a modern and realistic way. We break the stereotypes and we face the claws so that the agricultural cooperatives can enter the focus of the agricultural process. We are improving the conditions of competitiveness and commercial success through private equity participation and management, thus claiming a better place on the global agri-food market. We continue to reduce taxation at the low tax rate of 10% for agricultural cooperative schemes, which we have already legislated. With this draft law the surpluses created by the agricultural cooperative are not taxed, the profits distributed to members are taxed as dividends, i.e. by 5%, while any goodwill resulting from the valuation of the assets is exempted from any tax. We provide cooperatives with the flexibility to define themselves the internal organisation and business direction they want. We convert primary production from a lost opportunity to a multiplier of economic power, to the main pillar of our country's development. This is the first step in a comprehensive commitment by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to new perspective for the agricultural sector and rural development, to adapt the primary sector to the rapid changes caused by technological developments. In this context we must move forward with the aim of linking the primary sector to the educational, but also to the market economy, shield it with attitudes and functions of extroversion and arm it with modern marketing and marketing methods. But at the same time, we must protect our farmers from climate change and the extreme weather we are facing. That is why, Minister, I consider it urgent to change the regulation and the organisation of the ELGA with a new framework law, which will facilitate farmers' assessments and compensation. Because, I suppose you will agree, too, that the grape growers of Myrtofry, Folia, Olivehori, the Free and more generally the Pangaios and Nestos in Kavala have been affected by the hail last June and still have not received their compensation, and on 31 March they must also pay their insurance contributions to ELGA. I am sure that with its sensitivity, we have discussed it on several occasions, you will soon bring this framework law, as you will incorporate the Kavala Regional Unit into quartz protection by air. I trust you, but the main thing is that the farmers of Kavala, the farmers of Greece, trust you. And you and the whole leadership, Mr. Screka and Mrs. Arabaji. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very proud that, from a step in the House, I have the opportunity to refer to stories of cooperative success in Kavala. To say about the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives of Kavala, which manages 5% of the Greek production of kiwi, located at the first five in quantity in our country, with the largest facilities in refrigerators and mechanical equipment. To say about the group of producers, fruit and vegetable grapes, the quality symbol in Paigaio, with a total production of 2 million kilos of grapes per year, which are marketed on the European market. However, I am not proud, because these success stories are very few, depending on our potential and certainly do not reflect what I firmly believe, namely that the primary sector is the real comparative advantage of our country. I therefore call on all of you to vote on this draft law so that we too can finally tell more stories of success, such as the ones from Kavala, but also the one with which I started my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Igoumenides from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the bill, the agricultural cooperatives, but the publicity projectors as first news, as a first event, highlight the refugee - immigration problem. It is the problem for which eight months now, the government has changed six coordinators. It is the problem for which the government has abolished the Ministry of Migration Policy in the country that accepts the greatest flows. It is the problem for which the government eight months now refuses to draw up a decongestion plan for the islands. It is the problem where the government's policy, Turkey's foreign policy, has proved to be completely ineffective, not only has it not led to a retreat, but also to an intensification of Turkish provocation. It is a problem that Turkey is working, working on people, refugees or immigrants to pressure Greece and the European Union in general. We think it is time to stop the inactivity on the part of the government, we must immediately proceed to a council and the government ask for an extraordinary European Council at the level of leaders...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u78	Didn't you see them?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u79	Come on, please. Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u80	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u81	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Lazarides, I have not interrupted you. The Government must convene a special meeting at the level of leaders. Secondly, on this board we are no longer allowed to speak! Enough with the words, if you want it that way. Greece can be institutionalised and legislated in its territory. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's too much of a discovery! We want Europe's practical support!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u83	Open borders you want. Is that what you're saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u84	We want Europe's support, we want it not to be limited, as is the regularity of the government, to a Greek-Turkish dispute, but, as it is truly the European Union and Turkey, we want a relocation programme for refugees to the European Union, which is not yet accepted by its leaders, but only verbally. We therefore want to move on to practical measures to tackle the refugee - immigration problem by the European Union, and the government must call for such measures. It should finally abandon the communication management of the problem, the disarmament of the islands, the simplification of asylum procedures, but with full respect for the rules of international law. We want and call for support with the necessary staff of all the public structures involved in the management of the refugee. Let me come to the cooperative bill. What's new? It appears from the first article on what "farm cooperatives" means and we will compare it with what SYRIZA said. SYRIZA said: the rural cooperative seeks with the mutual assistance and solidarity of members, the collective, economic, social, cultural development and the promotion of their members. What New Democracy brings: mutual assistance is removed, solidarity is removed, social and cultural development is removed. What's left of it? The economic development and promotion of cooperative members. Where is New Democracy doing so, the law itself goes and one step further: For what is not regulated by this law on agricultural cooperatives, the provisions on anonymous companies apply. That's where he's taking it. Of course, here I will say that this is an ideological obsession and an ideological submission of the government to profit and will possibly be answered by the Minister for the Ideas of the Left and of SYRIZA. So you will allow me not to say my personal opinion. I certainly agree with Bruno Relands, who is the Director-General of the International Cooperative Alliance. I don't suppose you'd consider him symmetrical and ideoleptic. "Or priest, priest, or couple, couple," we said in my village. In other words, the Director General of the International Cooperative Alliance says: "There can be nothing between a cooperative and a capital company. We're either talking about a cooperative, or we're talking about a company. Otherwise, it can't work the shape. If you are really interested in Greece in developing and, above all, rural development," he says: "If you really are interested in growth in Greece and especially rural development through the pillar of the cooperative, then the cooperatives should be clearly what is envisaged". On three issues I wanted to stand on. I thought it was a good thing that I dealt with the issue of refugee immigration. One point, Minister, is the right to 35%. It has dealt very much with the discussions in the committees and the debate so far. We're not talking about a bill for agricultural cooperatives, but about anonymous corporations. Let us not fool ourselves, those who go through 35% - in addition to various points of view that have already been heard, and I imagine that the MPs will be able to grow and then - I believe that what is most interested in the investor who is going to enter is the brand name of the cooperative and the value that the cooperatives add to the market. A second point I wanted to see, ladies and gentlemen, is the concept of cooperative education. It is a fundamental principle that is very basic, that it has to do with democratic management, and I think, taking into account the fact that there are schools of the Ministry of Rural Development, that we need to see in these schools a part of their education, cooperative education. A third point is the intervention which, in my opinion, must be made by the state to strengthen the primary sector as a pillar that will help us out of the war of the economic crisis. You can't talk about Vianno olive oil, Kolymbari olive oil, Sitia olive oil. You need to talk at least about Cretan olive oil, not to talk about Greek olive oil as a whole or Kalamas olives, Mytilini olives, etc. A producer group, a rural cooperative alone, cannot be allowed to enter international markets, nor should producer groups alone be allowed to enter international markets. Let me close by and not abuse your tolerance, Madam President, to present a memorandum from the Agricultural Cooperative Cronus. It's about his viability. For its viability, he proposes a legislative change to Law 4174/2013 concerning the Ministry of Finance. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, I am presenting it, Minister, because it is a cry of anxiety for the people who have this cooperative for the fate of the cooperatives and the rural area in general who are really struggling for their production. Also, let me tell you at the same time, Minister, that you said that no secondary union was built with the law of SYRIZA. The co-operative of Krona, which I submit in the Minutes, is one of the primary agricultural organizations that went on and on a secondary basis - in Heraklion at least, there is, I cannot say for the rest of Greece - but it is one of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. Mr Constantopoulos now has the floor from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u86	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me, because of the events in Evros and in island Greece and the Turkish challenging, to say: The government today has to put the leadership of the European Union before its responsibilities. The role of the observer for the European Union has come to an end. The Greek people showed their solidarity and humanitarian aid in particular for refugees, but for immigrants, and this must be pointed out. Now, however, after the events taking place at our borders in Evros and in island Greece, the Greek people are determined to protect their security and the borders of our country and this with a national line, harmony and understanding. I should also like to stress that we are all on the side of the Security and Armed Forces, which, with their worthyness, guarantee and guarantee the inviolability of our land and sea borders. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, as our President, Mrs Fofi Gennimata, has mentioned, to activate the solidarity clause in Article 22 of the Treaty for cases of anthropogenic destruction. This is until FONTEX measures are taken to stop the illegal trafficking of people in Evros and island Greece, which is taking place with the help of Turkey. I'm coming to the bill now. We are talking, ladies and gentlemen, today about a bill which brings changes to the institutional framework governing agricultural cooperatives. It is an institutional framework that has so far been characterised by multiplicity and fragmentation and which has not been able to respond naturally to the basic needs and specificities of cooperatives. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill comes to amend provisions of recent Law No.4384/2016 with the objective unanimously and according to the Government to solve cooperative problems. However, Minister, unfortunately these objectives are not achieved. This bill simplifies the procedures, but it does not give growth incentives. In other words, it does not present the prospect of the state strengthening the primary sector, a primary sector that is the bet of all of us, because, as I have said repeatedly, the credit wealth has been brought to an end and it is our obligation to give the Greek people and the citizens who will be rightly redistributed. It is enough, I would say, to procedural and bureaucratic arrangements. Some may be positive, however, as a whole do not lay the foundations for the modern operation and development of cooperatives. We heard the bodies in their hearing the committee presenting concrete and complete proposals, presenting comprehensive opinions and regulations, clearly referring to problems that are to be created as long as the draft law is passed and passed as it stands today. That is why I would say, Minister, that you take into account the views of the institutions. Basic regulation, Mr Minister, is the entry of individuals into the cooperatives and the provision of them with expanded rights and capabilities. In other words, a private person will now be able to participate in the cooperative by holding 35% of all votes, of course determine by the right of 35% later. In other words, the cooperative will follow the course and structure of commercial companies more than, of course, the cheques and basic principles you are cooperating with. We also know that private individuals' intentions are an essential part of the government's policy. But the cooperative, Minister, is not a capital company. It works in another context with other authorities, and in any case it is an internationally failed practice. He said, I would remind him clearly, that the representative of the International Cooperative Alliance, but also other bodies, has been implemented internationally and has failed. So what do you say here? Why are you ignoring what the bodies have put forward with specific references to literature? Why, Minister, do you allow a private person to raise 35% of the votes and actually decide on the future of the cooperative? How do you expect this to work in practice that you expect? At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, this regulation will have a serious impact on the fishing cooperatives rented by the public lagoons in order to exploit them productively. These cooperatives have particular characteristics in relation to agricultural cooperatives, and that, Minister, should be taken into account and should be governed by a separate legal framework. Let me stress here that the members of the fishing cooperatives are compulsorily fishermen and their production is invoiced and moved for the benefit of the cooperative. Also, Minister, in lorries renting, in accordance with the Fishing Code, fishing cooperatives take precedence over private individuals. With these data, therefore, Article 6, which provides for participation with the right to vote for investors, and even up to 35% of the votes, will alter their recommendation only by fishermen with serious consequences for local fishing communities, because an investor will now be able to control the cooperative that is usually made up of economically impossible fishermen and compete with the production of a lagoon itself even if he is a trader of fish or even holds an intensive farming economic activity. For this reason, Minister, there should be a special provision for fishing cooperatives with a distinct article. It is up to you, do it, to avoid the risk of conflict with provisions of the fishing code. With this in mind, Minister, it is clear that you are moving towards a regulation which is doomed to fail, and on the contrary you do not pay attention to the fundamental problems of cooperatives, such as the absence of training for their members. Because, ladies and gentlemen, as long as the training of the partners is not strengthened, the cooperative movement will be brought to a halt. Finally, I should like to refer to the provisions of Articles 26 and 32, which have also been extensively pointed out by operators. The conclusion is one. The distribution of profits to the members of the cooperative and the distribution of the cooperative property jeopardises the tax exemptions that the state grants to agricultural cooperatives, as this creates issues of breach of free competition and the principles of the single market. We should not, therefore, forget, ladies and gentlemen, that a cooperative is not a simple public limited company which has separate corporate property. The cooperative property was formed by the succession of generations of cooperatives, as well as by concessions of the Greek State to the cooperatives. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we cannot talk about the distribution and exploitation of this property by the current members and the conversion of the cooperative into public limited companies, as defined in this bill. We tabled three amendments, which were developed by our rapporteur, Mr Pana. Make them acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u87	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr. Boobas has the floor, from the Greek Solution for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the philosophy of the cooperative movement is one for everyone and everyone for one or what the cruisers say and, of course, that is the motto, the cooperative organisations have taken it, the power in union. And because the hours are critical, this bill we are discussing today is about what happens where Greece starts and not where Greece ends, at our borders. At such times we are not in danger, as you said we were at risk as our borders were not guarded to tell the truth, skinly guarded, now guarded. When we were told to take measures we were the ones who were in danger. Unfortunately, I do not want to say that we were prophetic and insightful, like our President, Kyriakos Velopoulos, but once again that was insightful. Now, however, in such critical hours another saying of Dimitrakopoulos will enter where he says: "Policy with party, if there is no party there is no active cells of democracy, politics with party, nation with perfection." The nation does not need any party controversy or political confrontations, it needs perfect. We put these stigma points in order to show exactly what is serious, and we all have to be united together, draw up a common component, now immediately inform the political leaders, because if the state keeps up with the nation, it is united and indivisible and we are obliged for future generations to guard Thermopylae. This is the relationship of the co-operative movement's relationship with power in union, united all together, we can truly deliver a Greece worthy, worthy of the history of our ancestors. So let's go to this bill where he opens 'ker' to alter his philosophy. I'm sure there have been many mistakes and many sins in the cooperative movement. Cooperatives are a blessing. Unfortunately, however, since the first co-operative in 1900, we have sinned him, because the various presidents of the farming societies have been party-makers, so that each agro-industry can be dealt with by the respective government according to its party time. There can't be two federations all these years, the Federation of Democratic Agricultural Associations, the FLAG, who were committed to the New Democracy and the Federation of Rural Associations, which were committed to the PASOK. All of this brought us to this point of having a fragmentation of the cooperative movement. And I am very afraid that by entering now an investor, who may be in the interest of companies related to the agricultural sector to make crucial decisions to the detriment of small farmers. Because the philosophy of the cooperative movement named "Alexandros Baltatzis" since 1900 has been what? It was to support the small lot, so that farmers are united together to be able to meet good prices in terms of the supply of raw materials and the sale of their own products where under the GATT Treaty they remain in warehouses because of the hard competition. What do the evidence say today? Five multinational companies around the world are moving all the agricultural machinery in the primary agricultural sector. So competition is tough. I fear, however, that a potential investor is not just an investor, Mr Minister, he is a sponsor, and the sponsors want to do the same, because the word from ancient Greece says it is either sponsorship or the five-cost-modeled ones that you want to create within the cooperatives or the triumphs. And why am I saying that? First of all, because you are legal, the sins of the cooperative movement have been as follows: over-numbered personnel to get out the other mayor or MP, because I served the cooperative in the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives of Serres in my youth for a decade, over-numbered personnel to bring votes, many MPs and mayors came out through the agricultural cooperatives and farmers - all their children have been appointed, so they have entered UEGO and have also been certified by the TASSO, the other fund. So, forbidden provision. Do you want to be a candidate or are you going to elect a mayor or a congressman or a regional? Deviate from office. You want to be the head of a cooperative and all the members of the board? Clearly and unequivocally forbidden to have their children employees. Why have the cooperatives lost money all these years? Cooperatives dealing with cotton did not monitor the Liverpool stock exchange, which is a whole stock market product, so that they do not have management. Listen. A cooperative must certainly not lose money, dispersed public money primarily, but also the co-operative money at hand, but it cannot be a profit-making agency clearly. His philosophy is to protect the shares in the small capital of farmers. That's his philosophy in tough conditions. So when cooperatives spread their legs out of the vulture and did not have specific goals, we arrived here. Let's go to the shortest time I have in the following: the Netherlands, each farmer can be a joint shareholder in eight cooperatives, because there the Dutch cooperative is a mere purpose. This is the mere purpose of the cooperative. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let's go to France. There is a pyramid system in which the state itself certainly strengthens the cooperatives. We are going to Denmark, which, along with Sweden, is a model. Without a cooperative framework there, these people understand that there must be synergy. Do you know that there was a programme between Italy and Greece, where twenty-four cooperatives from Italy, three years ago, requested that there be cooperation with the Greek cooperatives so that they could cope with Spain's magnificence? And in this programme in particular, their olive-growing cooperatives were financed by the state itself, twenty-four the number, 50 million euros and our own just three and a half. Where'd we get into this? This programme was called consorzio nationale degli oli vocoltori, which was the national agency of Italy in olive oil, which asked Greek cooperatives to be able to make a product processing plan. We have bulk olive oil. People have a program, the terra del sole, where they give priority to the packaging. So since the corporate framework development pact is coming, the cooperatives must be ready, small and flexible. What we propose, as Greek Solution, is to provide a basis for quality, such as aromatic plants, with dried aromatic plants with female cooperatives in difficult areas in the processive stage. That's where we're getting sick. I fear, however, that there are no bans on members of the Board, so that their children will not be put into the cooperative, with a first and second degree relative. Those who will be candidates cannot be on the board as well. Finally, Minister, once you open the market for donors - investors within the cooperatives, the cooperative will lose its value in order to benefit small farmers in general, but to give weight to the quality stage of agricultural products. It's a big deal about the cooperative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u90	And one last thing, since we mentioned many cooperatives. Just fifty have a positive sign, that's the truth. PASPEGES, which we need to upgrade, presented two years ago twenty-four cooperatives going well in Greece, but also in 1967-1968 we had over seven thousand cooperatives, when in 1928 it was over three thousand. Partner movement. We must support it, we must protect it and in no way spoil its unified character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would ask you to keep your time with the relative tolerance. Mr Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr Vlachos will speak from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with the day-to-day issue which the Minister has raised in his speech and to say this to him. And me, Mr Vorides, Minister, it seems to me unthinkable or would seem to me to be inconceivable if anyone from this Chamber or any Greek citizen questioned the strong geopolitical role of our country, a strong geopolitical role that the SYRIZA government has shaped, and obviously it is very important to remember that, to be strong today, it has also played a part in the presidencies' agreement and in cooperation with the leaders of the Balkans and the Cairo Summit and the summit of the leaders of the Mediterranean South, which we are proposing - not to say - to be effective today, that is, these diplomatic cooperations which the SYRIZA government has given you, to remain strong and to become even stronger the geopolitical role of Greece. Because today, in the new conditions that are being created, we have not seen similar steps, such as the mistake made as to whether or not you vetoed Turkey's intervention in Indlib, or whether sanctions will ultimately be imposed against Mr Erdogan who challenged the European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration, which the SYRIZA Government has achieved, to ensure both the rights and integrity of Greek citizens and the Greek property. These are the questions you have to answer, Mr Voridis. You haven't answered them sufficiently. Questions therefore return more strongly to the government which has and the obligation of patriotism, the real protection of Greek rights. But let us talk about the agricultural sector. To the same thing, if you want a axis - which is patriotism for me too - one must recognise what the needs of the agricultural sector, agricultural production and the obligations we have towards farmers, but also to Greece. Because the primary sector is part of productive reconstruction, the economy and, if you like, the country's competitiveness, but also the region. What does the agricultural sector want today? What does the farmer need today? It needs competitiveness, resulting from quality and standardisation, it needs innovation and collective forms that give it a climate economy in international markets, to have access to them. It needs sustainability with funding and low production costs, but it also needs innovation, which is about climate, energy, water, new technologies, recycling on agro-chemical packaging and all other supplies. What is Mr Vorides doing about this - let me have the personal report, Minister - with this bill? None of this is done by the New Democracy Government with this bill. I would even say that it does exactly the opposite of what the agricultural sector needs. So what's he doing in detail? Let me give some titles. He puts individuals in the cooperatives. Simple? They're, if you'd like, friendly for the neoliberal conception of right-wing, right-wing party. He's putting them for what? To have a privileged relationship with raw materials, to have a privileged relationship with competing products, to have a privileged relationship with the property of cooperatives and at the same time to buy the air, that is, the goodwill produced by all the rural world, all the collectiveness of the countryside. This bill aims to achieve something that is missing in agricultural production today, something that is necessary for farmers? Oh, no. It is precisely the opposite objective, not to strengthen the competitiveness of Greek farmers, not to strengthen innovation, not to have collective shapes, not to have farmers alone the economy of scale and adequacy, but to produce the farmer still with low added value and to have the individual covered this gap. Indeed, it denies ideologically - it chooses to deprive - of what it needs from the rural world, because it replaces the void that actually exists with a pimp of the value of the agricultural world. This is what Mr Vorides is doing today, from the back door, so that the rural world does not have any modernization. It condemns the delay and the countryside and Greece and the agricultural income and the productive reconstruction of our country. So, practically Mr Vorides is against Greece's interests today, because Greece's countryside is the majority of our territory, it is the majority of the area, and at the same time it is the majority of primary product, quality of life, health, because farmers are, if you like, the main factor of the health of the Greek population and agricultural products also have this characteristic. It is of little interest to him and to the region and the country. He is interested in the interests of some very few, those who are likely to get through the back door to the cooperatives. That doesn't give us any questions, Mr. Voridis. That's right. We know what the Right in Greece is trying to do over time, and we know what you think about it. We don't hide it. You have no secrets in your policy. You don't hide it, forgive me. You're honest. Do you want to give free the goodwill of the rural world, of the cooperatives, of some private individuals, not everyone, at the same time - to tell you what I found in your articles? - services to partners, discrimination with injustice and inequality, manipulation in anti-democratic ways of cooperatives, familydom and professionalism to cooperatives, i.e. factorism, obstacles to young people and loss of property, i.e. in the public interest. Are these the values of freedom you spoke about a little earlier, Mr. Voridis? These are the values of the New Democracy, not freedom. Because all I said is what we know, the classic right. So what's he doing? It does not serve healthy cooperatives, nor those who are in solution and liquidation, but it agrees with private individuals to exploit the property of the partnerships they have put into the eye. That's how it serves, discriminatory. At the same time, cooperatives, while all other members have an obligation to cooperate with the cooperative, do not give this obligation to individuals. So there are exceptions, discrimination and inequality against farmers. At the same time, the share and value of the share for investors can be different from the share of members of the assembly, while when a private company controls 35%, controls all the cooperative, all the decisions. So it manipulates, abolishes proportionality with limited crusade and therefore, with the majority it actually goes to mono-party administrations, let's say so. It abolishes the terms, so it goes to professionals. It does not enable us to have new cooperatives, mergers, so it is not allowed for the young farmer to find a role in the cooperative, to create, to deal with his future. And at the same time where there is productive property, it leads to expropriation. Yeah, that's classic right. But it has nothing to do with freedom, it has nothing to do with production, it has nothing to do with rural development, with progress, with all that has to do with progressive and democratic thinking in Greece, only progressive and democratic parts. That's why everyone came, Mr. Voridis, the scientists, the partners at the Agricultural Chamber, and they all told you that this bill was set up. It's set against the countryside at the expense of the farmers, so you can take care of your best friends. All right, we know, you're a government that, after deceiving and deceiving, came to make a transaction. So this bill simply implements the transaction in the rural area, possibly transferring goodwill and the property of cooperatives to a few individuals. But he condemns the farmer to the delay. That's why you'll always be accountable, Mr. Voridis, and not because you fought for freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u94	Madam President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u95	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Madam President. It's okay, we're talking about it. I just want you to clarify, if you have the kindness, - the rest for the cooperatives will be in the debate, did you say what you said and will be answered - a simple question: Did we do well to close the border? Did we do anything wrong to issue the MDG that we suspended the granting of asylum? Can you answer this question clearly? Once we hear your position on this question, we will discuss the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u97	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "VENIZELOS" Hall, seventeen students and students and three trainers from the 2nd Primary School of Port of Hersonissos. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Vlachos from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, we are going through a difficult time and I think that ethnic homogeneity and the lowing of tone are imposed on all of us, so that we can come to an agreement. The Minister told you that the time has come to talk about the truth, because it is not going further. They closed the border, some actions were taken by the government. Are we going to continue to see it opposition? Haven't we figured out what tsunami is coming? And can one raise this burden alone by making this opposition five, ten or even previous years? Isn't it time we all felt our responsibility and take it? We can reach agreement on what we can reach agreement. And I think that's enough right now. Secondly, I heard Mr. Famello saying that the right one brings and that's not it, but else. You're interpreting the law by risk. It's like we don't do it like we don't talk to farmers, like we're from heaven, like we're a pussy. We are not simple people of everyday life and people do not understand them and wait for you to represent him and protect his interests! When? In a year when you've lost the election. So they don't talk at the house of the hanged rope. It's the year you lost. What happens later, let's see. The first question, then, is: Did it need a new legislative initiative for cooperatives? Life proved, and not us, that something else had to be done. Because previous legislative initiatives and the 2016 Act obviously did not provide solutions to the extent that farmers and we were expecting. He gave some solutions, someone will say - I heard it earlier - the register. But we're not here to level anything. If something good happened, obviously the good we can do today is the best. But we are definitely taking the big step, which the previous law and previous laws have not given, if you like. And it is now time with this legislative initiative to respond to the agonizing demand of producers, of the cooperative farmers - because that is what we understand that they are asking us - to shape in their own way, with their own decisions, how to cooperate, how to cooperate. That's what they're asking. And that's what the bill answers. It's the first essential answer that's different from yesterday. Because farmers understand that they just want freedom to decide on their own fates. That had to be self-evident. And this is coming to resolve this legislative initiative. The question, of course, will provide a solution to the problems of cooperatives, the state or farmers? But where did the state get a solution? And under the previous law - which was a heavy intervention initiative, an over-regulatory legislation - did it give a solution? Aren't we somewhere the same? Aren't we in a dead end again? Isn't that what we heard from everyone? You said everyone came and told us. What did they say? We shouldn't change anything, why are all angelic forged? Everyone has submitted anguish, everyone has said something to change. Maybe someone's approaching it a little differently. Let's hear that. But don't tell us everyone came and told us. And, of course, it is very easy to deal with the problems of agriculture and rural areas in theory, from the safe to one office, and another to be at the day-to-day struggling. Only such a man can have an opinion of what he lives. And these are problems that we have heard and heard for many years. And these are the problems that we are responsible for today and not to tell them how the majority will be. That's what life does. If we say that farmers will decide, should we not give them the tools, otherwise what will they decide? What new can they do? What started with the previous law, which says the private may enter. So, as the Minister told you, the issue at first is solved. So we're actually going. Isn't this the time to do it well after the private person goes? Because the previous law didn't show up. Why didn't a private person show up? This legislation obviously did not make sense. She was miserable, she was half, not to say she was one-five. Today this legislative initiative comes to complete this effort and do well, giving the tools - as I said - to the cooperative farmers. We will obviously not leave them in their luck, as a result of the great economic interests, which will suck off their labor and sweat. The possibility of a private investor with 35% participation - there has been an earlier hearing - ensures minority rights. In addition to that, however, whether it is 35% or how much it will be or whether it is not, they will decide. Because both parties will find the golden balance. And if they do not find the point that is of interest to both of them and the private sector to invest - because they want to invest their capital - and the cooperative farmer - who has no capital - in an influx of capital, they will obviously not agree. We believe they will find it or at least give them this opportunity to find it. And I believe that any other problems will be overcome, because the essence, what is of interest to both sides, is to go forward. Because - as I said - no private investor invests without a profit and no partner opens the door to the private worker, if there is no need for funds to develop his job, whether they are production or marketing. The decision is theirs, their application and, of course, the results will be theirs. Finally, the cooperative movement must acquire universal representation. Apparently, we all say so. Did something happen to this day? Oh, no. Shouldn't it be different? If, in the proposal brought by the Ministry, you have some remark, we have to change something, then we should listen to it. But don't tell me to keep the model that didn't bring the results. No matter how many years it passes, it won't work. So what do we say here? Form a majority. How will the majority be made? Are we going to count or produce heads? What's their object? We say turnover, to have an object of what each one brings, what they carry in the backpack. This is an objective element that does not fit into misinterpretations, determines the true size of the cooperative and so come. So, together with the liquidation, which has been heard and I do not have time to analyse, the assets for the liquidation of the cooperative are the substance of the bill. In conclusion, we hope that this will be our initiative - and our homeland, we will vote for this bill in order to become a law of the state with the hope, I stress it and I repeat, that it will be useful for the farm. But, you know, we don't have any claws. If something goes wrong, we're here to see it again. But suggestions in particular, not weeping around shear milk. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important bill on the future of the rural economy in our country. The accident is that we are discussing it at a time when we are discussing the national interests of our country when we accept the consequences of a horrendous project that the Erdogan regime has drawn up at the expense of our country. The good news is that in this difficult phase for our country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy are in power and so our borders are protected and we are not going to allow anyone to carry out their miserable plans against Greece. And it is also gratifying that, at this time we are talking about, at our borders, the leadership of the European Union, together with the leadership of the European Union, which has expressed for the first time its support for Greece and for the great problem it is going through. For me, this development is very important, the practical solidarity that the Prime Minister has managed to get from the visits of the whole of the European leadership. However, the question of agricultural cooperatives is very important for the rural economy that has existed since the Greek state was created until today one of the main factors for the development of the Greek economy as a whole. I too may not personally represent a rural area, as Makis Voridis does not represent, and he has no farms in Nea Makri or in Menidi, yet both of us and many others, such as George Vlachos who spoke earlier, are aware of what is happening with the economy today. We want a healthy rural economy. We want growth in our economy in ways that work for the benefit of our country. You know, in Greece many do not know that before 1981 to a large extent our country was self-sufficient in agricultural products and foodstuffs. The agricultural subsidies of the European Union, which I am a supporter, have not always brought the result that should be achieved. Indeed, subsidies are needed to keep the farmer in his place. But they also need to lead to the development and improvement of agricultural production. The same is true of agricultural cooperatives. In other words, they must bring free farmers, free producers, businessmen close - because the rural economy is now business and we must understand it - so that they can improve their production and incomes. This has not been done to a large extent. You know, the older ones remember that state rural cooperatives in the 1980s became the subject of corruption to a large extent and did not help in the development of the rural economy. And today, instead of being the great exporters of agricultural products, in this blessed place where we live, we are importers. I feel very bad when we go to the stores and shop Chile oranges or the Argentine lemons or tomatoes of Turkey, products that should come out and be sold in this place. Why is that? Because we do have very small rural lots and very small area yields. Can we change these? Of course we can. And we can do this if all of us and, of course, the farmers are aware and we are giving them the tools that the rural economy is no longer the rural economy we knew in the years of Killer. It's an entrepreneurial activity. And the rural cooperative in my mind, and I think in the mind of Maki Voridis and Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is the way that works to make agriculture an entrepreneurial activity and companies. Companies like those in all other sectors of economic activity. Could that be? Of course it can be done. And that is the incentive that Mr Vorides brings today in this bill to allow investment activities and through agricultural cooperatives to become free associations, free farmers who create, produce and contribute to the development of the Greek economy in a way that reduces the agricultural cost, because a great problem of the small lot is the great cost of production, and to make partnerships that make the result less costly, greater production and fight all these phenomena that we hear now decades and still have not been fully combated, such as the phenomenon of middlemen. All that can be done is enough for all of us to want it. I am sorry, because I have already heard the suggestion made by the SYRIZA rapporteur, my good friend Stavros Arachovitis, who spoke, about fifteen - sixteen, on the question of investors in agricultural cooperatives. I understand that in SYRIZA there is an insecurity when it comes to investors, private or private capital. They want it all in the state. On the contrary, we do not believe in the state economy. We believe in the free economy. We believe in a creative economy by free people who are businessmen. And the farmer today is and must be an entrepreneur. Is this going to happen in the immediate future? I do not know because, unfortunately, the attitudes that have been 'taken' for many years may not allow this to happen. But this is our pursuit. This is the pursuit of the Ministry of Rural Development under the Maki Voridis. This is the pursuit of the government of Mitsotakis. This is a pursuit of all of us in the New Democracy for a better agricultural production, for greater income for farmers, to become agricultural production as they are everywhere in the civilised and developed world, a private business activity which results in the benefit of both farmers and consumers and our country in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Anastasiades has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Before I begin my position, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President and Minister, I have to make a comment on what Mr Famello said, not personal, but on the views of his party. The country, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, has not been born from SYRIZA's rule over the last four years. The country has existed before and has been a powerful geopolitical factor ever since. It has not been upgraded over your days, as you believe, that you have had to implement a policy that you did not believe. Because when we put the country in the West and said "We rise to the West" you called "EEC and NATO the same union" and "killers of the American peoples". And now you come and bow to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u103	We're talking about it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u104	You say it, but you don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u105	Mr. Comrade, don't answer. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u106	It's a fact you want to forget and forget your past.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u107	What did you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, please let it end, because we do not have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u109	We've listened with gratitude. I don't know why you're angry. Of course we have a different perception of how to deal with immigration. You, of course, would like the borders to be open and everyone here, as you have done for so many years, we want the borders closed and controlled, and now that we are under attack, we are proud of both the Armed Forces and our Government and the Prime Minister who defend our national rights and our borders. You, of course, would like to give citizenship to everyone. To give the message, we are suspending citizenship to them for a month. This is the chaotic, chaotic difference between us, and I hope - because you have taken steps in this direction, in terms of logic and regularity - to achieve more in the coming years. Minister, with regard to the bill: To understand and understand the importance and importance of a piece of legislation, namely the law introduced today, which is being debated for a vote in this House, we must first understand, study and know the past and make the present. So what do we have to talk about the past? What is the situation today, as is very well mentioned in the explanatory statement? What do we got? Agricultural cooperatives have been in deep crisis, institutional and economic, for many decades, for many years. In the country there are four thousand five hundred two rural cooperatives, active, running and informed in the National Agricultural Association Register of eight hundred nineteen. Totally inactive two thousand eighty-eight cooperatives, no councils, no movement, no procedures and a hundred and twenty-two rural cooperatives in liquidation that lasts too many years. That's the situation. So what were we supposed to do? Perpetuate this situation? Didn't he need an intervention? These problems also came to light with your own law, Mr.4384/2016, but unfortunately - and I say, unfortunately, because we wanted it to succeed - it has failed in many cases, and in many cases has exacerbated the situation because of the complex bureaucratic procedures which it has introduced and anticipated. What's today's bill doing? What's the government doing? What is the Minister doing with the provisions we are discussing today? It changes radically and completely the cooperative landscape. He changes his philosophy and logic of association. He's not clinging to the past, he sees the future. Its aim is to create healthy rural enterprises. We have a difference in this: enterprises that are moving on private criteria, without State intervention, which are flexible, which are commercially active and do not operate as ever most of them only in the collection of products, but also in the processing, and that they go to standardisation, and go to market so that they also have a profit. That is why this bill enables members to define their own operating methods and how they want to act by drawing up their own statutes. It's an important intervention, an innovation. It enables ten members and, on a case-by-case basis, and very few depending on the regions to establish a cooperative, to cooperate and to participate in cooperatives and entrepreneurs, as you have told them, so that cooperatives can deal with their problems. The aim is to strengthen the economic role of women by taking part in flexible forms, up to five members, in cooperatives to strengthen the role of women in the rural economy. The aim, the pursuit and philosophy of the government, is with this bill to give refreshment, growth in the rural economy and rural development. Now I want to say two words and on the amendment that you have introduced, Minister, and congratulations - because this problem has upset many of our compatriots for decades. Some twenty years ago, it has been a matter of urban and penal persecution to members of the board of directors of cooperatives for debts, as you have made very typically, to the public and insurance institutions. Of course, it is right that the suspension from prosecution will apply for five years and that it is not allowed to extend to the same cleanser, because in recent years we have had a process of winding up of the same cleanser for many years to end this, to get rid of those who are honest and to be condemned by those who have issues - we have no role to play in this - to end the suffering, because many people are hostages of this situation or have frozen property and cannot act. Imagine that if it takes another fifteen years, people will grow old, they will leave life and cannot be released, they will be hostages to this situation in which we have been called upon to give a solution. We have often made interventions both as opposition and as a government before, but we have not been able to give a solution. Congratulations, Mr Minister, for giving an even temporary solution to this issue, but clearers will be able to complete the proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u110	Me too, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement has now been asked for the floor, Mr Katrinis, and immediately thereafter Mr Apostolos, Mr Gregoriadis and Mr Heitas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u111	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u113	...we followed a practice that said that among the parliamentary representatives a few speakers would be involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u114	I have already given the floor to ten colleagues and we have kept the parliamentary representatives behind to speak, so at the moment they have also requested a specific time for everyone to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u115	...to apply it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u116	We'll talk about it in between. It's okay, we'll see. That's not why we're gonna fight about it. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, while we are discussing the government's bill on cooperatives, another idea of cooperatives - you will allow me to describe it - it is a serious crisis, an idea that has nothing to do with the association of farmers, but with a co-operative of states. This crisis concerns the European Union and it proves awkward, but also embarrassing in its reflexes and decisions. We will all agree here in this Chamber that the distance between the symbolic presence, the announcements and the essential actions is enormous when our country faces a direct threat to its security from the dangerous toys played by Turkey and Mr Erdogan personally, by working on thousands of refugees and immigrants. We want the Step forward to express our support, solidarity and also our respect for our locusts, for the forces of the police, the military and the ports, which, in the face of conditions of real invasion, are effectively defending our borders. There is no question of self-evident support from the government and Prime Minister in this very critical situation for the country, and neither is the government convincing Greek citizens that management is effective. The task for the government is to put the European Union's leadership before and at last before its responsibilities so that there can be very direct and very substantial measures of practical support for Greece, because our solidarity as a people has shown it repeatedly and in too many ways. The strengths we displayed were far beyond our powers. There is now a need for consensus, consultation and national line. And tones need to fall from all sides of Parliament because they offer nothing. But that is why we believe - and before the last crisis began, we have repeated this on Saturday - that the Stepma is to be held today - that a direct meeting of the Council of Political Heads should be held as an appropriate political solution. Of course, we are also calling for the European Council to be convened to act on the solidarity clause in Article 222 of the Treaty on European Union in cases of anthropogenic destruction. We are calling for the support of FRONTEX and it is good that the first statements made by Mrs Von Der Lyen appear to be made. However, we are calling for a threat of immediate sanctions in Turkey, a suspension of application of the Dublin Regulation, the decongestion of the islands - we have only had 1119 new refugees and immigrants on the Aegean islands - and, of course, the use of veto in critical decisions. Of course, it is a positive initiative to call for the convening of a Council of Foreign Ministers. This, however, is not enough for the decisions to be taken at the highest possible level that is binding on the leaders of the countries of the European Union. I am optimistic - I am not sure - that at private meetings the Prime Minister will remind European leaders that today the problems that the European Union has not resolved in a sustainable way since 2016 and at that time international organisations, such as the International Monetary Fund, have proposed the brave financial support of countries, such as Greece and Turkey, which are at the heart of the problem of immigration, but also of refugee flows in relation to the financial possibilities, have not been solved. In fact, the G20 leaders were warned at the time that this sort of shock of non-economic origin, if not tackled in time, could have a significant impact on the global economy, particularly in sectors such as trade, financial markets and tourism. So we are talking today about the agricultural cooperative bill. And I come to the contents of the bill that is not disconnected or irrelevant to what is at stake and is being discussed at European level. A few days ago, the Minister for Rural Development informed us of the negotiations within the framework of the multiannual financial framework and the difficulties facing the common agricultural policy with the insistence of some to have reduced amounts. Unfortunately, so far, we have not reached an agreement - and at the last summit - and unfortunately there are clouds of European origin over the farmers in our country and not just, with too many demands that overturn the common agricultural policy and the acquired ones that Greek farmers and farmers have had for too many years. There is a lot to be said in the new CAP over the next few years and we expect to see and be informed by the government of the way and the results of handling a very delicate, but very important negotiation, which will have a direct impact on farmers' incomes, but also on the naturality of the primary sector in our country, because we hope that we will not go out after all, Minister, deeply affected by this story. I say this because so far we do not have, ladies and gentlemen, tangible samples of an agricultural policy with vision and effectiveness. We see this, and in the case of this bill, which cannot be described as a reformist or an innovatory bill with a developmental character. On the other hand, our rapporteur, Apostolis Panas, said it in detail, a bill of micro-adjustment and the settlement of procedural issues, which is not shared by the authorities, nor by the spirit of the cooperative idea. Of course, this does not surprise us, because the political tradition of the conservative space has always been linked to a stand of rivalry in the cooperative idea. Modern and especially recent Greek history is full of such examples. They invoke any illnesses in the operation of cooperatives to undermine in practice and cancel the cooperative idea itself. However, today, when the social economy as a third sector to private entrepreneurship and the public sector is recognised as a great and ambitious pillar of economic activity, the government, unfortunately, seems to be binding on specific political views - I would say - of ideas that want to go socially into the private sector by putting it in the forefront bed, so that it can come as close as possible to the measures of its own political opinion. And what the bill is finally trying to do, if we look at the big picture and not the individual arrangements, is the undermining and cancellation of the cooperative philosophy itself, with the entry of the individual at 35%, which eventually turns him into a main decision-making body, to a kind of main shareholder of the company. For the participation of individuals, we have seen at the hearing that most of them were uncertain - to say the most positive view of the government - and even completely negative views from the International Cooperative Alliance, which I think has know-how and experience in similar models that have been applied. The Minister said that there are international conventions, multilateral or bilateral, which are binding on our country, that there is a strong commercial interest in the agri-food sector and that cooperatives in his view should be competitive with the large capital companies. However, there are serious doubts as to whether this is the case with the entry of individuals. Because we also need to see a conflict of interest. Other is the interest of the investor and other user of the cooperative services. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, we must clarify and clarify whether the cooperatives are for profits or for the best income for their members and what is the reason for their existence and function. In other countries, however, such ideas have also been particularly accepted by conservative parties. It is no coincidence that unlike Greece, where the cooperatives have an extension of one-digit percentage among farmers - it is close to 5% with only 8% of agricultural products moving through cooperatives - in most European Union countries this is more than 50%. However, this does not make sense in a country where the need for the cooperative, either in the classical form of the cooperative or in the new forms of producer groups, is much greater because of the small rural lot. Because when the small lot is exposed to the wild and particularly aggressive, hard conditions of international trade, then the consequences for farmers in our country are like the ones we see this year for products such as oil is oil, and we have had detailed discussions, Minister. Unfortunately, we have not seen concrete measures so far. We know the issues. Products given at very low prices. Farmers who can't store. Zero liquidity provision, agricultural supplies and energy needs that bring production costs up to levels that make the cultivation of non-sustainable activity. All of this comes to add unavoidable competition with imports, but also to Hellenisations of huge amounts of foreign products which are of low quality and dangerous to public health due to the use of pesticides which have been banned in the European Union. A characteristic example is potato and windy imports which, unfortunately, are affecting Greek producers. We have pointed it out to you in the recent timely question on agricultural policy. Farmers feel and are totally abandoned and feel that they have no support in an environment in which few major players dominate the market. We expect you to incorporate, as you were committed, as soon as possible, Directive 635 2019 of the European Parliament on unsatisfactory practices in the food supply chain. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the bill brought by the government does not respond to any of this. Because cooperatives do not seem to be strengthened to overcome the problems, but also the sufferings of the past, to gain a developmental direction and to be able to operate as a genuine protection shield for farmers in today's, real war conditions. And surely cooperatives and producer groups and the incentives to be given to them, and farmers to join, are absent from this bill, incentives to tax, incentives to education, incentives to finance, incentives to differentiate between companies, of course, incentives to develop their activities. However, there are no institutional changes to strengthen farmers' confidence in cooperatives. All this is part of a comprehensive plan to support the agricultural sector that we have presented at the level of proposals, but you now seem to be not prepared to adopt and implement. Nor, of course, so far have you studied using the experience of the cooperatives. I am referring to the issues that seemed to arise in the course of time and which need to be corrected whether they were of a functional nature, whether they were due to attitudes that showed the absence of true cooperative culture or a lack of know-how of skilled executives working in cooperatives. As we speak of the members of cooperatives, I think it is deafening the absence of workers' participation in the associations' councils. Mr Minister, from all the sides of the House, the need has been for workers in the associations that are being liquidated to be pre-empted when the winding-up procedure takes place. It's a question of the code of civil procedure. You say that it is not your responsibility, but I think you should take this initiative to adopt and implement it, because I think it also reflects a very large proportion of Parliament's wings. There is, of course, the question of exploiting the property of cooperatives that the law of SYRIZA provided for the operation of a company to manage and effectively exploit this entire reserve. Unfortunately, it has never been implemented and, as in many other things, a three-year unnecessarily delayed three years. The cooperative schemes, Mr Minister, will always be necessary and their support at least for us is a precondition to strengthen the position of the producer, along with all the other measures which must form an integrated agricultural policy. In this direction, we, as a movement of change, are also expected, but I imagine the rural world as a whole, to move forward in the next few years. Unfortunately, with this bill you do not implement these expectations, and that is why we stand critically and vote against at first instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u118	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Apostolos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister, starting his position a moment ago, said he would not be impressed if there were any other approaches and would consider it a consensual to Turkey's refugee plans. This is an unacceptable and provocative position because it shows that the government, sticking to its ideas, does not want to take advantage of the fact that instead it has a responsible opposition, ready to back up, as we have repeatedly stated, provided that Mr Mitsotakis abandons communication management, micropolitical logic and authoritarianism which not only bring no effect, but are constantly exacerbating problems. Why does the government refuse to take advantage of the experience of the SYRIZA Government which managed multiple flows, which effectively pressed the European Union and managed to have the European Union-Turkey declaration, which, despite the problems, allowed very decent management? It is the Greek Government's duty, even today, to force force force at the highest level to convene an extraordinary European Council at the level of leaders. In the face of Turkey's aggressive moves, Minister, there are not enough Councils of Ministers - which express the support in general - nor technocratic issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u120	It was nice we closed the border, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u121	Minister, please! Ladies and gentlemen, please let your colleague speak!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u122	I am coming, Minister, to the issues that you specifically raised in our term of office at the Ministry of Rural Development. Minister, when we received the Ministry in front of us there were three billion fines and countings, there were commemorative demands in front of us. You forget that we ruled at a time that was very difficult, especially for rural areas. Only to remind you of the proposal that was made by previous governments for 23% of the agricultural income tax from the first euro. And we have fought great battles and to reject these proposals, even by introducing the personal tax-free amount of EUR 8 500 for the rural area, which is a great conquest. At the same time we tried to put too many things into order in connection with the operation and management of Community aid. However, you said that we had two - three legislative initiatives. You're wrong, because we've had a lot more. We had the grazing land, a regulation which is a landmark, I would say, in order to address the major problems that exist with regard to the eligibility of livestock farming. We brought the law on cooperatives. I will tell you more particularly about the information you have said, but also the effectiveness that has existed. You forgot to say, Minister, that we have brought the compulsory labelling of the country of origin, of milk or of meat, which has been a great success in dealing with the problems that exist with the Greekizations. We have brought the mistress as a key element in the employment of economic migrants in the rural area, which you are now trying to see if there is such an employment through this process. We have brought the rural card, a card with which the farmer can get a loan by putting aid as a guarantee, over a billion a year and even a low one. We have brought the payment of fresh and vulnerable products within sixty days to deal with the bad practices in the area where we had payments up to one year's cheques. We have also brought other regulations, such as the DIAGE - which you are abolishing today - an agency that could offer too much in terms of exploiting the property of the rural area. We've brought arrangements that had to do with problems. Don't you like the Bank of Genetic Material, Mr. Voridis? Visit her to see what work is going on in Thermi Thessaloniki on making use of the possibilities we have for plant material and...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u123	That's all I liked.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u124	However, because it also appeared from the debate that the distance between us on the issues of cooperation is abyss, you consider freedom in its operation to be panacea. We are basically doing what the European Union is doing in general, by establishing the common agricultural policy in Europe, that is to say, aid to the rural area so that it can compete internationally. So we, with our possibilities, at least in cooperation, have put one vote per member to a substantial effect, for example. You put up forty votes per member. So, now, the basic principle that we say about co-operation and solidarity can be expressed with your own proposals? The bill we are debating today, ladies and gentlemen, will be marked by two provisions which have met a great deal of opposition in committee. The first is the entry of private individuals into the capital of agricultural cooperatives, with the right to participate and vote in the institutions of the administration, which is a scandalous favour to all those who want to pass on the assets of the cooperatives to natural persons. It was typical of the Director-General of the International Cooperative Alliance. Where such a regulation has been attempted, it has failed. Minister, you have confused the capital companies that focus on invested capital. They are directed by investors, they are determined by investment relations and they have a specific fixed capital with cooperatives, which focus on human beings. They are directed by the users, they are determined by the alternative relationships with the cooperative and their cooperative capital consists of portions that change according to the number of members. And I come to second order. It is a provision in which, in the debate in the committee, there has been a relative discussion at the level of tension and it is the one which provides for the suspension of the persecution of members of the management of cooperatives, for five years plus one year, for the non-payment of taxes, fees, contributions, duties on public or legal persons governed by public law, including the main or subsidiary insurance bodies. Indeed, there is a problem with some members of administration. We too have been concerned with this problem, but it cannot be dealt with by provisions that cause society. How much more, when both the previous Samara regulation and the n.4224/2013, and in this case, they are not going to offer anything at all. They'll just perpetuate the liquidation process, which you all know is the great problem of rural collaborative space. Minister, the co-operatives that collapsed, left debts, unpaid farmers, created huge bank debts, accepted illegal arrangements, lost large market shares, and in the end they were put into liquidation. Do you know how this situation was created? From the partisanism imposed by your own governments of New Democracy and PASOK on the operation of the site, from 1980 to 2010, it resulted in mismanagement, waste and pillaging of its resources. All this, we remind you, is not due to our own legislation, but it happened in the previous period, with your own laws of the Governments of New Democracy and of the PASOK. When we voted on N.4384/16, we had as a basic aim the number of active cooperatives to be cleared up. Do you know what the institutions said about our own regulation? This law has the quality of being clear. It simplifies and facilitates the creation of cooperatives and other forms of agricultural organisations. All the information you give us, Minister, is not true. We found a virtual reality. Six and a half thousand cooperatives - seals, most with 750 000 farmers. This whole system to serve the specific party function. Today the agricultural cooperatives amount to 880 and the total number of members is about 142 000, without all active members, unless you have unlawfully deleted, by deleting cooperatives from the register. And their turnover was up and above 1.3 billion. What needs to be done was to continue the process of consolidation in order to restore farmers' confidence. I have not heard you, Minister, say something about their debts which are currently more than EUR 3 billion. They were thrown out of the project “HRAKLIS” and are already sold out by the cleaner “PQH”, where they arrived after the crime for the rural area of the rural bank of Greece. You are withdrawing - I will repeat it again - an organization of the DDIAGE, which was very important for the property of the cooperatives. Of course, you have, in such a case, brought the well-known amendment to Kiato, which abolished a decision of the S.H.E. - listen, ladies and gentlemen - even before her ink drys. I have not heard you say anything about the recoverys that the European Commission has made to us, to do from the ground, more typical of the 573 million of the ATE arrangements. Minister, in imposing recovery, your fellow ministers of your governments have huge responsibilities, not only because they have given money, without the approval of the European Commission, but also because they have not done anything, so that they are not accounted for. If you were to bend more, you would find well-known names from your site connected with packages and settings. I don't want to say names, everyone knows. Especially for the recovery of the ATE arrangements, we have done a good job, in collaboration with the country's active cooperatives. We have established a much smaller amount, which soon I see as your success, as you have recently done for the 300 million fines for pastures, for which, after our efforts, further return decisions are coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u125	It's yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u126	You see, Minister, you screwed up, we unleash the country, and you are taking on your so-called efficiency. I shall end with the representation of the rural area. With the provision you bring, 23 cooperatives from the 880s of the registry holding 51% of the total turnover, will be able to recommend ETH. These 23 cooperatives may be the largest turnover in the country, but they represent 2.6% of the active cooperatives. If you consider this democratic legitimacy, the distances that separate us - which were large anyway - cannot be bridged with any improvement. The problem of cooperatives today, ladies and gentlemen, is not the chair of representation, it is how they stand on their feet and the bill since it ignores the basic principles of cooperation, cooperation and solidarity, among its members, will offer nothing in this direction. On the contrary, it will damage the space and that is why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, my colleague. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukokouros, has requested the floor in order to make a small speech of three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll then talk about the bill. I have been watching for quite a while now officials from the Anti-Population Officers bailing against government policy on immigration, without, however, making any proposals at all, as if we were all here today. Many Mediterranean countries in recent years have faced this migration problem, but have taken action. Both Spain and Italy and reduced the flows. But what happened in Greece? For four and a half years we had a government that said all open. Open borders, no maritime borders, open roads. And what did this policy do? He created new routes of immigration and refugee flows. That's for granted. We all know that. It's officially recorded in history. Of course, when developments make the questions imperative, the responsible political forces of the place must be placed and answered clearly and honestly, without any attempt to make speculation. What's going on in the current situation? We have some people who have assembled either as immigrants or as war refugees on the coasts of the neighbour or somewhere in south-east Turkey or have people who are pressed, transported, ordered to go to the border Greeks and enter a European country, such as Greece, who also showed her charity and her face showed all these elements that make up our Greek-Roman European culture. We are now in front of an invasion organized by Mr Erdogan himself, and what is the Civic Opposition doing? It says: 'You have no plan'. In the face of developments, it does not say whether this policy is properly implemented today. The Prime Minister himself was at the border of the country with the leadership of the European Union. But is it caused by the New Democracy three days now by the President of SYRIZA and former Prime Minister to place himself and say, is this right?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u129	You rule.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u130	He'll say it today.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u131	I hear, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, 'You are ruling'. However, at the beginning of my position I said that, for the critical problems of an existential nature that afflict the country, all the forces must be placed sincerely, sufficiently, straightforward and without attempts to make political speculation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u132	Always, always, always, all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Tsipras is being challenged and he's not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u134	He'll talk today. You'll hear him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u135	Did we close the border well, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, quiet. Mr. Buquoir, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u137	I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. Did we close the border well? We suspended the asylum applications very well, yes or no? You're not answering. I do not know if you are following the '50-50' series at 'MEGA', but I hope your President at tonight's 'MEGA' interview with the interests of Marinakis - of course - will give a clear answer as to whether the Greek Government has properly closed the borders, whether it has well frozen the asylum applications. Because that is the change of policy in the face of what is being guided by our country, in what Mr Erdogan is planning against our country, which violates every concept of good neighbourliness. Let's answer, finally.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u138	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Good month, good Sarakus.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Apostle, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u141	And for less, Mr President. This evening my colleague has been informed and will be following our President in his place in detail on the questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u142	The "MEGA" of Marinaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Buquoir, don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u144	I would like, Mr President, because you asked us to put a question to specific questions, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u145	If I am given the floor, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u146	Do you agree with the Minister's position that we are not entitled to talk to those who have the approach to see how things are going and that this is a compromise between Turkey's positions? Do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Apostle, you are addressing me. Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u148	You understand, by expressing such views, how he respects the Opposition and the Chief of Officership. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u149	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u150	I have, however, asked myself, Mr President, and I have not exhausted my right of place.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order, has submitted its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior "State Development Perspective of Local Government Institutions, Arrangement of Issues of the Ministry of Interior and other Provisions". [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to say so, go to the canister. No panel here, I'm not up yet! I'm making an announcement and you're talking. You're shouting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u152	Olympiacos joins you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u153	Mrs. Jackie will now take the floor from SYRIZA. The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 will be followed, then again one Member and then another parliamentary representative. Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, in commenting on the current situation, I cannot fail to point out that Mr Mitsotakis, as always, woke up slowly and reacted obscenely. Is there any doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that our borders must be guarded? Because this is where we came to talk about self-evident things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u155	In SYRIZA's youth, say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u156	Or have our borders started to be guarded since the New Democracy took over the rule of the country? If we have our god! If I may, I would like to make a personal point. We need our country to have a firm and time-consuming policy on the issue of immigration, because, unfortunately, our European partners in this very important area are changing their minds according to their needs. And that brings us into conflict with them. Thus, a purely European issue becomes purely Greek as soon as the immigrant crosses the Greek border. There is therefore a need to internationalize, there is a need to hold a direct summit and there is a need for our European partners finally to assume their responsibilities. Now I would like to go on with this bill, which is very important to the Greek countryside, making a small revert to the recent past. Since 2011, ladies and gentlemen, to date, in nine years' time, we have been considering the third draft law on agricultural cooperatives. Two of these have already been the laws of the state and they have been implemented in the rather defeat and the third, what we are considering today, will become a next law, the third in turn in these nine years. Law 4015/2011 sought the consolidation and democratisation of agricultural cooperatives and the promotion of cooperative values. However, the main objective was to find solutions for a very large number of indebted and highly indebted cooperatives, as well as for the cooperatives - seals - to remain for a thousand five hundred cooperatives, which would be healthy and powerful and could intervene in the rural chain in favour of those who were actually employed in primary production. Mr.4384/2016, passed by our government, SYRIZA, also had two main aims. Firstly, the clearing of the grey scene in the cooperative space and, secondly, the creation of a starting-point for the creation of sound collective business units, which was the main prerequisite for the development of the agricultural sector in our country. Today we are discussing a new draft law on agricultural cooperatives, which, according to its explanatory statement, has a key objective to overcome bureaucratic and complex procedures and obligations in the operation of agricultural cooperatives, as well as to resolve the constant problem of financing the operation of cooperatives, which makes them uncompetitive. That is, up - down we have the same basic objectives. But let's see what the picture is today. Producers are still reluctant to participate in agricultural cooperatives, mainly because of bad past experience. As we see from the way measure 9 of the Ministry of Agriculture has evolved to strengthen the collectiveity and, more specifically, to establish producer groups, after ten months and four extensions, there were only two hundred six requests for the establishment of producer groups, which amounted to just EUR 130 million, representing less than 1.5% of the total production value of agricultural products in our country. In brief, I would like to mention that the value of production in 2015-2017 in all agricultural and livestock products in Greece amounts to EUR 9.4 billion. You are therefore aware of the very small collectiveity observed in the space. In the fruit and vegetable sector, which since 1996 has been implementing co-financed business programmes, despite the increase in the value of the sector and the increase in the number of producer groups, the value of fruit and vegetables moving through them accounts for only 10% of the total value of the sector. So the picture today is that we have a very large number of small cooperatives with many problems of coordination and efficiency in their activities and in the dissemination of cooperation between Greek farmers. The large number of agricultural cooperatives did not lead to the desired economies of scale which could in turn help to reduce production costs. So, cooperatives with a small number of members, as this bill unfortunately provides, which, from twenty-seven members, are putting them down to ten, will probably sustain the problem. And resolution after nine years has not been completed and is still a question. Even today we are talking about a large number of inactive agricultural cooperatives around the five thousand registered and still registered. That's what the evidence says. On the other hand, there is a continuous production of laws without the corresponding result, and this is expected when neither the previous nor the earlier law have been assessed, so that we can actually find where they go wrong and make the necessary corrective moves. As regards the draft law we are debating today, yes, there is a significant difference with previous laws, and that is the possibility of entering, and even to 35% of private members - investors in cooperatives on the grounds of covering the lost liquidity of cooperatives. What does that mean in practice? First and most importantly, the exchange of cooperatives, which will no longer represent the well-known institution of the rural economy. Secondly, prevalence and manipulation of farmers - members from non-member investors. With a limit of 35% of the votes, the members - investors will have a catalytic role in the formation of the cooperative's decisions. Thirdly, the attachment of agricultural cooperatives to private capital which will then lead to a distance between farmers and the administration, particularly in the context of the present pathogenousity of agricultural cooperatives, due to precisely increased debts. Ladies and gentlemen, cooperatives are collective efforts by farmers and it would be well to stay that way. There are other platforms of cooperation between producers and the secondary and tertiary sectors of the economy, i.e. processors, traders, supermarkets and their interbranch organisations. I do not think that the financial support for cooperatives, which, in my view, will never happen, should be their Trojan Horse from private non-farmers, who will vote in this regard. Of course, concerns and concerns also prevail on other important issues raised by this bill. The value of the share of the cooperative and investor. The abolition of the democratic principle of 'one-vote', since an investor can now control 35%. The reference to the principles of Law 4548 for public limited companies in the Commercial Code. The sales percentage of members' production through the cooperative, which should also be increased. I would also refer to the conclusions of the International Cooperative Alliance that the provisions of the draft law do not comply with the internationally accepted rules for the management and promotion of cooperatives in the framework of the 6th Social Entrepreneurship Forum, according to which the frequent changes in the law of individual types of cooperatives and, in particular, agricultural cooperatives create an extremely unstable institutional environment, which makes it difficult to develop cooperatives in the rural area and also the concerns and concerns of a number of other institutions such as GEOTEE, the Institute for Cooperative Research and Studies, the Agricultural Cooperatives ‘PINDOS’, NEWS PASSETS etc. All this, ladies and gentlemen, must be taken seriously into account if we want to get away from a moderate effort with limited ambitions that cannot really address the problems of the cooperative. All this requires more consultation time and more careful approach to the remarks that have been or will still be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u157	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u158	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, this is another attempt which will also not succeed in bringing together production capacities, because it does not include provisions which could, as catalysts, solve the problems of space. Provisions such as briefings and training for changing farmers' culture and strengthening the concept of cooperation, for the practical advantages of grouping and organising them. Incentives, for example, to reduce taxation for cooperative farmers so as to limit black trafficking and facilitate the participation of farmers in collective schemes. Incentives to the opposite by the one you bring for the non-influence of private interests, which only seek to exploit the property and the name created by the cooperative. For all these reasons I cannot support the bill, which I am voting against. In conclusion, however, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the amendment tabled by colleagues, which concerns the clearing of the producers' debts and obligations with regard to compensation to be paid by the ELGA. Yes, we support this amendment, Minister, and we support it because, even if it is limited, the liquidity of producers is strengthened, even if some measures are taken, such as binding rights and subsidies, in fact, in a reasonable time. Thank you very much, Mr President, and your time tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Dionyssis Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy and the Edessa waterfalls.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position, I would like to dwell on the events of the last few days, whose government-management has been exemplary both at democratic and operational level. The message has been sent and it's clear. It has been said by the Prime Minister since the first moment: our country will not tolerate illegal entry. We must be united and united to face up to the pressure that we are accepting. Fortunately for the country, ladies and gentlemen, in these difficult times Greece has a government and a Prime Minister who put above all the interests of the country. Now I am not commenting on the positions of SYRIZA colleagues in managing the crisis in the past few years. They are judged by the citizens. Or for internationalization. They obviously didn't see what happened to Evros today. But they deserve congratulations and respect for the officials of the Greek Police and the Ministry of National Defence who ensure the inviolability of our borders. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Agrarian Cooperatives and other provisions'. The specific initiative of the Ministry of Rural Development is particularly important, as problems are dealt with through the proposed legislative provisions, which have for years been the brakes of both the proper functioning of agricultural cooperatives and the overall development of the institution and therefore of the agricultural cooperative. The institutional framework of cooperatives, as it exists today, has created distortions in a number of things, such as financial management, competitiveness issues and organisation. As a result of all this, the co-operatives in the majority of them today are in a tragic economic crisis. It is true that the operation of agricultural cooperatives has in practice proved to be problematic, presenting many and deep problems. Unfortunately, the information we draw from reading the draft report of this bill, as we analysed it during the debate in the committee, is indicative. In short, I say: Of the four thousand five hundred cooperatives that exist today, the one hundred and twelve are in a process of winding-up and winding-up, but without this being completed, and this is because of the existing framework. At the same time, two thousand eight cooperatives are inactive and only eight hundred nineteen, based on the National Register of Agricultural Cooperatives, are active. One can hardly dispute this and it is very difficult to say that the cooperative, despite all the problems that our country has, is indeed the safest way to achieve for producers the reduction of production costs, the competitiveness of their products and their organization and the maximum utilization of European funds. That is why the state must create the framework so that more producers turn from the path of individual activity towards that of cooperation, and that is what the Ministry of Rural Development does with this draft law, changes the institutional framework, gives cooperatives modern tools so that they can grow. In particular, first, perhaps the most fundamental, it gives the freedom for the cooperatives themselves to form the statute of their cooperative and thus to regulate their internal relationship and function. Corrects the problems created by the previous legislative framework of L.4384/2016 through its commitments, since the reality is that it did not help and created many problems. Second important change that changes the way cooperatives operate and gives development impetus is the possibility of participating in the agricultural cooperatives of members - investors, but by putting an insurance policy on the table. That is to say, the right to vote without all the votes of the investors members being able to exceed 35% of the total of the members' votes. This practically means that the cooperatives are becoming attractive to those who want to invest, since they can participate by voting without at the same time altering agricultural cooperatives as the institution of the rural economy. Here, too, we have the most criticism from the standpoint of counter-population. I think, however, that the answer, ladies and gentlemen of the counter-population, you have taken it from the representatives of the two collective cooperatives - institutions of the country, the NEW PASPEGES and the Association of Agricultural Cooperatives and Enterprises of Greece, which have been put positively against the provisions of the project and the new framework proposed. The third point I would like to make is the provisions of Article 39(3) concerning matters of responsibility of the Ministry, but they are not related to cooperatives. In particular, I am referring to the extension of the deadline for the ratification of legal acts, which have been drawn up in violation of the Criminal Code. It is an intervention that solves a large, important issue, as it gives the greatest possible time for them to carry out the necessary procedures and obtain property rights. In my own region, Pella, this is an issue that employs a large part of society, and the Ministry's initiative really is very important. Fourth point, which is not included in the provisions of the bill, but comes with an amendment from the Ministry, is the regulation of the recruitment of TWG and GFCF personnel, an issue that has been very important to all of us for many years and these people. It is an important initiative, because it solves issues, and so it makes it possible to function in a very important part of the production process. Ladies and gentlemen, the practical support for cooperatives is a key political option for the government, which is part of the more general planning to support and develop the country's primary sector. The agricultural and livestock sectors can play a leading role, they have all the foundations, as long as we as a state provide them with the necessary tools. I think that a majority of colleagues agree that this draft law is going in this direction, that is, the necessary tools are given. But before I close, Minister, I should like to say that this bill should be followed by an effort to get a wider information and implementation, so that we can convince producers that the idea of cooperative is very important and the benefits they can obtain from their participation are also important. See the successful examples to get ideas and smell. This will be in the interest of the Greek producers. The new institutional framework provides the tools and enables us to do so, so that at last the cooperatives can go through a new era and act as a means of developing the primary sector not as a brake. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Today's draft law is a good draft law, and we hope it has also had very good results. The Ministry's leadership is credited to this good piece of legislation, as is its previous contributions to the improvement plans, to the processing, financing of these in the banking sector, and to the decoupling of farmers' contributions from income, the rate of 9% in taxation, but also 10% in agricultural structures. I believe, however, that other very important measures, such as the national plan for the new CAP, to reduce production costs, to restructure crops, but also to reconstruct the ELGA and its regulation, will be followed so that at last this problematic organisation that is at the heart of the collapse, with an archaic regulation, will actually become a useful tool for farmers and farmers to be able to produce properly. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that this draft law is indeed a good draft law, which is credited to the Ministry of Rural Development and its leadership.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor for twelve whole minutes and I thank him very much for understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as our secretary, Yiannis Varoufakis, wrote in a recent post, Mera25 directly condemns militarisation, walls and national history as our response to the European Union and Mr Erdogan's work. Humanity everywhere, asylum to be beaten and vetoed in everything, in everything, in this European Union, until these Brusselss are just in line with Western humanism. Nothing else. Finally, let them comply with the well-known Western humanism. A virus and a long-awaited increase in migratory flows was the perfect opportunity naturally sought by the addicts of our cross-party memorial nationalism to promote their xenophobic crowns and try again to disorientate citizens. The fear of others, whether they are Chinese or abducted fugitives, is working so that our people can no longer see the real causes of the continuing suffocation that they feel, which are not other than the political years of austerity of the foreign and internal troika, and the 'yes' toward all the powerful, as well as to Mrs Merkel's agreement with Mr Erdogan, in which neither the previous nor the current government, as in NATO's plans nor practices, in which nothing is seen to do. Mera25 makes it clear that it will not allow this cross-party memorialism to be allowed all this disorientation of citizens and the cultivation of xenophobia, which, with mathematical accuracy, will make things worse and will deprive the foundations, that is to say, whatever runs have been left in Greece, in the circles of progressive forces around the world. Merra25 is not going to allow the rulers and cross-party memorandum nationalism nor to have troubled and frustrated people who drag on to Evros and our islands as an invasion army, nor to work on a virus that is affecting the whole planet, with the ultimate aim of strengthening xenophobic rhetoric and cultivating dangerous and inappropriate illusion that they are able to shield any territory, whether we are talking about the territory of Evros or about the entire European territory. The territories, well or badly, get used to it - are not shielded. It is time for society finally to take the path of radical internationalism, which understands that all epidemics are entirely, economically, biological and migratory, they are absolutely transnational problems and therefore they can only find - just -! - transnational solutions, solutions for which prerequisite is finally to end the "yes" on which it builds the misery of our fellow humans, Greeks and migrants, our interparty memorialism. It is time to act everything that empowers the spirit of Western civilization and with admirable comfort most of us are evangelizing from the safety of their living room and sofa. So, who are these? Solidarity, humanity, open borders, open eyes and open arms. Organised management and dealing with the problems, and not xenophobia and fear of the different, can lead to a society of prosperity and protection of all its citizens. Let us not forget - let me - and the lyrics of Sophocles by "Antigon" "Many bear the awe, the great awe". Let us have these lyrics as a lighthouse on our way to finally developing an anthropocentric, humanistic, open and democratic society. Let us now move on to the bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. In time Greek society is aware of the problems and conditions in the agricultural sector, as our agriculture and our farmers are an important part not only of our society but also of our country's economy. It is no longer a common secret, therefore, that the common agricultural policy, which has been adopted and followed in recent years, has turned almost all our farmers and farmers into people who have ultimately sought subsidies and not competitive and quality production. It has, of course, favoured the large farms in second year. Of course, the big issue has been and remains the funding of farmers and their agricultural production. We are well aware that the exercise of rural activity requires continuous liquidity and access to cheap working capital. The Agricultural Bank - who remembers yet -, which started as the state pillar for the provision of cheap liquidity that our farmers so much need, has turned into a credit institution for consumer loans in the early era of the euro, until it was sold out for a piece of bread literally at Piraeus Bank. The hypocrisy of the New Democracy and SYRIZA on this major issue is that we believe it to be characteristic, because both New Democracy and SYRIZA with their choices in the Common Agricultural Policy have promoted the model of contractual agriculture. What does that mean? First, it means the verticalization of production, i.e. the control of the whole production phase of the product. Secondly, market control largely by few companies which provide producers with material and technical assistance, if necessary, while producers put land, breeding facilities and equipment, producers’ wages follow a system of penalties and rewards, each company’s producers compete with each other and their company assesses on the basis of production costs per unit of product. Producers get a good score rewarded with a bonus, while others get less than the indicative amounts shown in the contracts. Thirdly, the investment from the producer's side is made by lending. However, as we all know, it is demanding and constantly evolving with the company to have a contractual requirement for the producer to maintain its facilities in the same way and periodicity as it itself will also approve and, above all, to renew the equipment when it has come to the market some upgrades that increase productivity, but at the expense of the producer itself, all of this. It goes without saying: the majority of producers live on the poverty line, often underneath it. The fixed costs and interest on their loans run while the producers cannot be above the average each time. We all know that. In these jobs it's one other, one year it's a good year, one year it's not going well. In the event that some producers start in a year when things did not go well to complain about the terms of the contract by demanding renegotiation, companies are not just not sitting here to discuss with them, but are targeting them by sending the message to others that anyone who does not obey the company disappears from the market. Excessive producers are thus actually turned into slaves who work literally all day long, as they cannot hire workers and, furthermore, forbid them and protest. In other words, contract agriculture is downgrading farmers to employees from processing and marketing their final product and is overcompensating them, as the producer is constantly compressed by the big companies. Finally, agricultural production is becoming a gamble for the big, that is to say, big companies and banks, and the farmer gets what else? The role of the well-known consumable official of these companies. The requests from the rural clubs are condensed in the following. You know it, but I'll read it again because it's always useful to listen to them. Firstly, immediate replacement of their income from the consequences of the embargo. Secondly, payment of all outstanding claims by the ELGA. Compensation for the unpaid rainfall of the past three years. Thirdly, minimum guaranteed prices which meet the production costs and the quality of products and, at the same time, - farmers demand it - will ensure survival income for bio-paid farmers, while their products will be cheap when they reach the people's needs, against speculation by traders and industrialists. Fourthly, a reduction in the cost of production with duty-free oil, an immediate reduction in the price of the agricultural stream by 50% and a abolition of VAT on agricultural means and supplies and feed. Fifth, we should finally reduce the insurance contributions to the FBI. Increases in degrading agricultural pensions - totally degrading - and reductions in retirement age in sixty years for our farmers and fifty-five for our rural women. Sixthly, that the reductions in subsidies - aid provided for by the new common agricultural policy do not apply, that our farmers should not reduce the tax-free threshold, I would remind you, on the blocks, but that they should increase to 12 000 euros, even increasing by 3 000 euros for each child. And eighth, to stop the criminalization of their trade union action and their struggles, that is to say, immediately abolish your well-known farmhouses. Mer25 considers that the primary sector is extremely important for any possibility of recovery our Greek economy has, while strengthening and turning it towards extroversion through cooperative vehicles is indeed the right solution. However, this bill does not adopt the real spirit of cooperative principles and values. The agricultural cooperatives, instead of being a tool for developing the economic, social and cultural role that the rural area of Greece so much needs, will eventually become a wheelset. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Using as a pretext the deep institutional and economic crisis that has existed for many years, a crisis that has led to all the previous governments, including, Mr Vorides, and those of the New Democracy, and the chronic problems which they have failed to solve so far and the relevant laws, the rulings now envision agricultural cooperatives as private and autonomous companies with the participation of investors, up to 35%, which will easily be majority in the second and third vote. This is the first step towards contractual agriculture, livestock farming and so on, as the 'investors' will thus gain full control and be able to impose their terms on employees - cooperatives. In turn, the latter will gradually become employees who will pursue objectives, producers and borrowers who will hardly meet their obligations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Merra25's permanent position is the need for cooperatives in agricultural production with a view precisely to developing economies of scale that reduce production costs, but cooperatives following the course of the agricultural product from the beginning to the end, from sowing to distribution to retail. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, we are bypassing the middle-sizes wholesalers who have actually been paying for years for the goodness of farmers' toil, solving the issue of very low producer prices. At the same time, any subsidised aid policy is multiplier than its benefits in large farms, that is to say, cooperatives. The New Democracy promotes the concentration of production on private large crops, on the other hand we in the cooperatives that ensure widespread dispersal and high added value in local societies. This is where our ideological difference with the New Democracy lies. You're focusing on a few, we're dispersing again to the many. In conclusion, agricultural policy requires a central national plan with a dual objective. On the one hand, financing should take place without the private-private profit-making criteria of conventional agriculture with very low interest rates and great conveniences, and on the other hand, agricultural production in Greece must finally be interconnected with our tourism by increasing rapidly the added value of the most heavy industry we have, which is now bleating for years because of imports of products to meet the needs of our visitors in the tourist months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u163	Mrs Fotini Gennimata, President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, is now called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for a few days now, our country has been facing a direct threat to its security. Erdogan - we have said so many times - has passed through threats to actions. With piracy on our borders, cynically exploiting the suffering of refugees and immigrants, it is again attempting to blackmail Greece and Europe. Greece reacts. The Greek people demonstrated great tolerance, humanity and solidarity. But he is also determined to protect his safety with patriotism and responsibility. It requires all of us to have a consensus, consultation and a national line to deal effectively with this threat. I would also like to thank the Armed Forces, the Police, the Border Guards, the residents of the outermost regions for their very great effort. We're on their side. And I would like to highlight the position of responsibility of the Greek people that proves to the overwhelming majority once again that it respects the humanitarian values. Ladies and gentlemen, I have stressed from the outset that, with Turkish action, the joint declaration by the European Union - Turkey has collapsed by creating new data. That is why we need a change of attitude, first of all from Europe. The margins for concessions do not exist. I have asked Mr Mitsotakis to finally place the European Union's leadership before its responsibilities. It is a good and useful visit to the leaders, but I fear that, apart from wishing, it has not been accompanied by specific commitments, not even by a condemnation of Mr Erdogan's actions, and that is a big problem. They told us that Greece's borders are Europe's borders. Good. That's self-evident. But that is what Mr Erdogan first knows. That's why he's trying to blackmail him. But European solidarity cannot be exhausted - as they have done - in a vague declaration to strengthen FRONTEX and in extra sums to meet the increased needs. It's time to say things by their name. We've had words. We demand a change of policy and concrete actions from Europe. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot continue to be told in the face that, after the actions of Mr Erdogan, they consider the joint declaration to be strong and practicable. They can't pay us any rents so we can continue to be a storeroom of souls. And I wonder: What exactly did Mr Mitsotakis ask for from European leaders? Does he think there's enough of what they've heard from them? We answer no. I ask him straight away and I expect answers: did he make a yes or no request for the European Council to convene, or did he succumb to the meeting of the European Foreign Ministers? Has the European Union called for a yes or no pressure on Turkey under the threat of immediate sanctions in order to accept this intervention by FRONTEX within its territorial waters, in order to stop trafficking in human beings? Has Turkey asked to close the exit gates of refugees and migrants to Europe? Did he or she raise a matter of immediate suspension of the Dublin Regulation and speed up the dismantling process? Has he asked for the immediate decongestion of the islands with the distribution of asylum seekers across Europe? And what exactly are Europe's specific commitments to strengthen FRONTEX by means and personnel to play its role as a deterrent? It is rumored that in the next few days, there is a new meeting of European leaders with Erdogan. And the question arises: will Greece be present this time? Ladies and gentlemen, the leaders of the European Union will leave and we will remain with the words of comfort. And that's not good enough for us, it doesn't fit us, and that's not fair to the efforts of the Greek people. That is not the Europe we want. This Europe that is afraid to stand up to Erdogan. We all demand decisive action and national understanding at this critical juncture. To this day, Mr. Mitsotakis continues to walk on his own. But Mr Erdogan's blackmail will continue and Europe does not feel like catching the bull from the horns. Only solution to give them to understand that we are determined that we will even veto the European Union's critical decisions if it does not remove the refugee's keys from Mr Erdogan. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] I repeat once again that we are ready to contribute with all our forces to the formation of a national line which will effectively defend our borders and our security, without reasonable party benefits, with the sole aim of the real interests of our country and our people. That is why I think it is necessary, Mr Mitsotakis, to convene the Council of Political Heads. The Greek people want to feel confident and secure that there is a consensus and a national line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u165	The reason for this is SYRIZA's Member of Parliament, Mr. Bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, each of the spokesmen of the New Democracy, who stands at the Step, self-sufficiently transfer the non paper with the same words - I must admit that some add some extra gestures - for the thanks of the Security Forces and the Armed Forces, if you like. Look, look, I'm not surprised, Minister. It's enough time for me to have seen this work many times. But what makes me impression is that it does not change this work no matter what happens in the country. Whatever the problem the country is facing, no matter how serious the problem the country is facing, it remains the same way of communication management, but it has its limits. I'll tell you something. We could behave in the light of the fact that the current government has been the worst opposition since post-Macedonia. He liberated toxicity, hate. He took false patriotism out of the mint, exchanged him with some votes. He considered it a success in the election and goes on to repeat it now. As an adversary to this policy, we could offer the same. But we do not, because we are putting the country's interests above all. And we say to this government - if you will agree with some of the proposals made by Mrs Gennamas earlier - on the subject of refugees, we should agree on some of the bases. Why isn't the government doing it and still communication management? A Prime Minister's wing in the wind of communists! In fact, Mr. Mitsotakis went to the border. He'll be back from there. And what are we gonna do? Minister, the depth of the problem you know as a government. You're making fun of the Greek people. You are aware of the current crisis with the extortion of Erdogan, which we have made concrete proposals to you. You need to examine them and answer them. You're talking about kittens, and I told you before that the Prime Minister is a wing in the wind of communists. You insist on this management. And can I tell you something? The TV tsubukas has its limits. You know not only the depth of the refugee problem but also the complexity of open procedures in the Aegean. And can I tell you something? That's not enough communication movements. Mr. Gerapetritis will come back sometime as a meteorologist to say that the weather brought a ship here, as he said. As Mr. Gerapetritis himself came to this step and told us a few days ago that the MATs did not leave, but their mission was finished from the Greek islands! We got the hint. That's how they're gonna end here and beyond similar missions. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] And now we're going to this for the bill. The Minister went up to Stepma and ran into the comfort of the man who knows nothing about the murder. Did he read here some numbers after SYRIZA's billing in 2016, trying to hide what? He said he wouldn't mention for a long time. Why please, Minister? Why don't you bother mentioning for a while ago? Who turned the country into a co-operative dump? Mother lost the kid and the dog the master! No one knew how many were there, how many still there were, which cooperatives were in liquidation. And you come now and ignore this experience, as you do in the refugee. Because when Karamanlis came after the dictatorship he showed that he learned some lessons from that experience. When you came after the bankruptcy, you look like you haven't learned a lesson from this experience. So you come and say, "We have freedom, we want freedom. As long as they want to stay in the presidencies of cooperatives." Can I tell you something? Do you know that the professionalisation of executives hides corruption? Do you know that? Do you miss attention? And can I tell you something else? You bring freedom, you say. The representative of the International Cooperatives Organisation, representing two billion people around the globe, came, and what did he say to you? Your argument is "seeing to see globalisation", in fact, "there is concentration", there is, "there is entry of capital companies", yes, and you come and you say now the antidote to it is to turn cooperatives into capital companies. And the representative comes in documentary and tells you why this cannot be done. And he tells you what is happening in Spain, what is happening in European countries on the corresponding subject. You, based on what standard do you legislate? You don't like the European model. Based on what? Peneera in Chile? What standard do you legislate on? You may not have heard the name, but you know his predecessor Pinochet. Based on what standard do you legislate? You ignore that. And we're going down now. I don't want to abuse time. I want to say something, Minister, because I don't have time. Let me ask you something. Please don't interrupt me. Here I am, Minister. There's no paper, all right. Listen here. You want to hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u167	My colleague asked. Wherever I want to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u168	Aren't you telling me, did anyone from your Ministry say that you're going to take back the measure introduced by SYRIZA to expand the list of olive groves? Do you have such a purpose? I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u169	Now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u170	Yeah. Do you have such a purpose?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u171	I don't have anything in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u172	Oh, because I heard from your State Secretary. That's what I'm saying. If you are going to tell us who ordered it and what kind of deliver it will be on it. That's what we want you to say. And you will be accountable to thousands of producers and given that, while exports were three hundred tonnes after the introduction of the measure, were launched at sixty thousand tonnes. And you will come to take in the name of what immunity a similar measure if you take it? And I'll be done. We have tabled an amendment to you. Did you have a chance to see her?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u173	Who is she? He's got a lot of stuff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u174	And finish, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u175	The amendment is for the cooperatives in liquidation and the exploitation of the assets.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u176	Overruled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u177	Rejected? Yes, sir. Now I don't have a chance to hear why.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u178	I'll tell you when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u179	No dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u180	In other words, it is a bad thing for healthy cooperatives to benefit from certain assets of the found cooperatives and it is bad for the clearing cooperatives...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u181	Why do you have to deal with matters you don't own?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u182	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u183	I have not heard, Mr President. The Minister's talking. Can I hear you?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u184	Listen, but the reasons later, when the time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u185	For the time being, it is analogous.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u186	Aggregated, but undisturbed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u187	I can't hear. What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u188	It's not for you to answer. The Minister will answer when the Minister's time comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u189	Undoubted on your part. Okay, that's arrogant at least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u190	Be well. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated by twenty-nine students and students and three educational attendants from the 3rd Municipal School of Xanthi. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. George Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy and beautiful Karditsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that today we are discussing an issue that concerns a crucial factor in the economic development of our country, the primary sector. Unfortunately, however, this very important debate has coincided with the unpleasant developments that we have on our eastern borders, and I really have listened with surprise to the previous speaker to reflect on the Members who welcome, their thanks and congratulations to those who give the first-line battle. So, you disagree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u192	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u193	That's what I get. That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u194	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u195	Do you disagree that there are people who currently have their souls, themselves, in order to preserve our country's borders, our country's borders who accept an asymmetrical threat under the direction of the Erdogan regime, who have flooded our eastern borders with tens of thousands of immigrants - illegal immigrants, I will say - threatening our country? And I hear general positions, I hear vocabulary, but no suggestions. Should our borders not be closed at this time? Should we not show determination to those who are following our national sovereignty? And, in any case, there are also some who believe that there are maritime borders, even though it is difficult to preserve them, but there are maritime borders. Faced with this phenomenon by Erdogan, there is fortunately a serious and decisive Prime Minister, who stands with vileness, who stands effectively against this issue and I hear everyone internationalising it - he says - that we should make it a European issue, because it is not a Greek-Turkish issue, it is a European issue. Isn't that what happened today? The leadership of the European Union is here. What more does our Prime Minister have to do to really show that this issue is not just about Greece, not only about our country, but about the whole of the European Union, about the borders of the European Union and of united Europe. If you want, this is also a pathetic fact that European integration remains incomplete, because it really had moved on quickly and decisively, and we had a common foreign policy on many issues, a common defence policy, we would not have reached this point today. Or is it not good that 700 million euros of emergency financial aid were announced in our country? Are we going to stick to the logic that immigrants are melting and suddenly disappearing from our country and we don't know where they're going? But he's here. It's across from us. We see them. And it is not just that they are against us, they are aggressive, they use weapons and materials that the neighboring country provides to them and they cause huge problems. I think that in this case, ladies and gentlemen, unanimity is a priority. We must trample into the micro-personal and micro-participatory purposes and show what unites us, which is our homeland, which is our nation, which is Greeks and Greeks. And, of course, I will also say congratulations to both the Army and the Police and to the Port Guards, but above all, I will say congratulations to the anonymous Greek, the anonymous Greek woman standing on the side of all of them and who I really helped once again our fellow citizens who have an institutional role either by belonging to the Security Body or the Ministry of National Defence and who guard modern Thermopylae. And you see that this issue unites the Greek people. Do not artificially try to separate him into the Greek Parliament. Dear Minister, it is true that you have the luck of having in your hands, to come a little bit to the bill, a ministry that ministeres out one of the structural pillars of our country, because I firmly believe that the primary sector along with tourism and shipping is the three structural pillars that can reverse the unpleasant economic climate in our country, give economic breath and perspective to our region. I would like to point out here: without a primary sector, you should be sure, colleagues and colleagues, there is no continental country. If farmers and farmers disappear, a large part of mainland Greece will be devastated. Tell me, ladies and gentlemen, does our country have the luxury at this time to mourn lost homelands? Of course not. It is a one-way to support the farmer, to support the farmer and, above all, to support the excellent idea of co-operation, which in previous years under wrong policies, by wrong people who served this idea, deprived it, impoverished it and finally became on the lips of our farmers forbidden word, because many of our farmers listen to us as "cooperative" and turn the back. Will we allow this, will we allow it to remain like this, or will we create new data on this process, and above all will we trigger a new form of cooperation that is modern, effective, close to the farmer and close to the jewels of our time? Do we or do we not want our farmer to be a businessman on earth? Do we want to remain a worker and a grower? Should we not get the added value from the processing and standardisation of its products? Shouldn't that be through collaborative schemes? The former Minister is sure to know that one of the dominant products produced by our country, cotton, is exported unprocessed to Turkey. We get 500 to 700 million a year. Do any of you know how much we spend on importing fibres or cloth? Five-fold and six-fold amounts. Are we going to continue with that logic? Does a country that produces, bleeds to produce it, exports it unexploited and, in the end, pays multiples to introduce it finally processed and finished product? Should we not move in this direction? Should we not allow agricultural cooperatives to actually operate on private economic criteria within a clean market and create added value for their members? One example I'll tell you and I'll close. A group of young people in my municipality, young farmers, decided to diversify their cultivation, as we blame Karditsa for having monoculture cotton, and to open up the stevia capital and produce steviosacchary. He made a new cooperative, multi-participating, putting enough money each and every one of them. It's not just the pilot production of the stevia. Re-exploiting a programme of the Ministry of Rural Development, LEADER, did the processing and standardisation of stevia in order to deliver to the market a final product, using all the added value. Do you know where this whole project stops? In the lack of capital. You will be able, Minister, with this bill, to have these funds as well. In order not to insist more, it really moves in the right direction and we must all support it, because that is how we support Greece, we support the countryside, we support the people of hardship and production. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much. Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, first of all, thank you very much. What can I say? Science raises hands up! On the one hand there is a right to the Greek Solution. And what we haven't heard! Intruders, push back, hybrid war, intruders. He said the parliamentary representative, said the colleague here, the Prime Minister said this morning. Look, on the one hand, it is the Greek Solution vindication all you say here in "and five", but on the other hand it is a very cheap populism from all of you here to save what is saved from the lost batch - and lots and homeland! Anything you can save. I was going to start today's conversation and speech with a very big, real good for these people who fight up there on their own, to the Greek Police and to our Armed Forces. I didn't want to say anything else, really! But you really exceed every limit. Minister, you are here and you represent the government. About a year and a half ago, when we had pointed out the problem for you that you are working rather with internet delay - the image comes, the sound comes, I don't know what to say - and we told you that things were marginal, you said to me 'Mr., don't worry'. Don't worry? Mr Vorides, between serious and funny, all we've been living in the last 24 hours is the result of your plan that was not there, I mean your government's inconsistency to deal with the issue and your refusal to see the reality and listen to the only President of the Greek Parliament who has been telling you since July one by one and nothing you have followed. None of this! And you come here today with a lot of courage and hypocrisy as new stars - actors to talk to us about push back you, when Velopoulos Push back said, you were throwing him here not to say what! When we talk about poachers, "do not, what are you talking about, people are!" And you are saying this today about poachers! You don't care to solve the problem. Because if you were interested in solving the problem, you would do what we told you from the first moment. We don't mind eating all the rage. We'll tell the truth in the world. This is the reality that these people who came in eight months ago and come in and now they're poachers. They're Afghans and half of them are criminal evidence. Don't you see them as criminal evidence? What is it? Are those babys? Three days on Evros' show, don't you see it? Are these babys? It's criminal evidence! I would also like to say that there is something magic in this Chamber, Minister. There's a magic hand that disappears. A couple of months ago, he wiped out Ausgeakis. He's gone. He's out of the parliament. Now we're looking for Tsipras. We're looking for him, guys. We have three days to see where Mr. Tsipras is. Is there?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u198	On TV!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u199	On TV? What's he doing? Is he doing emissions? Is that a reporter? I'll go to TV, Tsipras won't go. I'm the reporter! So where is Mr. Tsipras, who's locked up? If he says the obvious, what all of Greece sees, every Greek across the globe, that Greece is invaded, if he says so, will ruin it with his clientele and internally will become a mess. If he says, what does he say? That people of ours are, we have to protect them, they'll turn a full moon against him. That's what you sprinkle, that's what you reap. Find them now what you will do and what position you will follow. Because the truth is one and it's not hidden, that they too are irrelevant - that's why we're living what we're living now - but you're not interested in either the good of the country or the good of the Greek. Your clientele is interested in you. Minister, I was listening yesterday to another former disappeared - because as difficult as things were, it was gone, when deportations occurred the other day, Mr. Georgiadis showed up again, it wasn't easy for the ground a month ago to appear, yesterday he took the TVs, well, I would do - to say that those who don't have the right to stay, are illegal invaders and go to jail. Yes or no? They've been kept for four years. Yes or no? Four years imprisonment and a few thousand euros fine. Those who don't have the right to illegally enter our homeland are going to jail for four years. Yes, sir. Let me ask you something. Are the people who come in from the islands legal, you guys? Let me get this straight. Why do we catch those of Evros only? A diversion? Again, Velopoulos calls you "smart up, up does Erdogan this, down two thousand into twenty-four hours". Two thousand Afghan buds entered the island in twenty-four hours! The boats are here. Aren't they illegal? So the guy who breaks the wire and breaks in illegally, gets in jail, the guy who gets illegally into my sea, doesn't go to jail, he's not an illegal man! That's a baby! That's what you're telling us here today! Who are you kidding? And who are you mocking at when your suggestion of what? Direct decongestion of the islands by transferring illegal immigrants to the mainland. How's that gonna happen? Why don't you tell all the truth that you're not going to catch the push back to the sea, to our islands, go to Evros and just make the dude! Go to the islands! Everybody back! Push back didn't you say? You start shoving it slowly between you two. Push back to save Greece! What are you doing now? To figure out what SYRIZA's proposal is. Why don't you tell the Greek people that if these guys go inside, the illegals who enter and enter our homeland illegally without our will, so I want to, we don't have the right to take them back? Why don't you tell the Greeks to hear it? That's the deal you signed! You signed these, the left wing, the hurting, the humanists! As if we're not humanists, it's just you. It's too much! You, Mera25. I've never seen anyone take him home, one or two, a baby, adopt a child, an Afghan to put him inside your house, talk about your religions. You didn't get one! Otherwise, it's a shame. And we're coming today, we're setting up a whole communication show at Evros, we're bringing the Europeans, we put them on the plane. From the finishing up, the photos, Mrs. Ursula, the Prime Minister makes Evros an autopsy, our borders! And Mrs. Ursula came to tell us what? Take 700 million to manage the illegal immigration! I don't want your money, man. Get them out of here! I don't want your money to handle the problem. I want to get the problem out of my house. I don't want to feed them with your money in here and have the Greeks die from hunger and be unemployed and be homeless and one of his children gone abroad and I feed Afghan and Pakistani and Algerian with the money of the European Union! Has the European Union come to support me today and tell me what Mrs Ursula Von Der Lyen has done? Tell me what? Can we give you 700m euros? I don't want your money! Can I open the border for you to cross the buds upstairs, come over there madam, strawberry, see what's good for you? Can I open my borders for you? Where is the solidarity of the European Union that has shut us down? Because the communication show and the lies, Mr. Minister, they have short feet and people don't lie. You've been the same government that for eight months have stubbornly turned your back on the problem, and suddenly you've been off a weekend and sent over the police to get the chestnuts out of the fire. At the police border, Minister? At the border is the Greek Army! The police don't go with the globes pushing them. Our borders are guarded by the Army and not by a flat wire. With a wall on Evros! When Velopoulos told you again, you were calling him crazy! Wall on Evros! Because you see in front of what Erdogan is planning, who, Minister, is predictable. Very predictable in what he does, very predictable and we had to expect them to do these. And where are you? Not because we were pulling them off for the weekend, it's over. The nightmare from Erdogan hasn't started yet. We must be ready, wall, minefields. It's our border, guys. Our borders, our borders! Aren't we going to protect them? And yesterday, the shallow policemen - I saw them - put on some missing parts, some wire here, some wire there, back up, get out of here. This is not a situation in a serious country that wants to guard its borders! And we went today and set up a whole communication show. Mr. Mitsotakis cannot be governed in communication! It can't be done! The Greek people want substance, they want to act! There's no way, boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo-boo. A presidential party of the House went to Evros yesterday. Nobody showed it! Nobody! Only the ERT, probably mandatory. And from today, we have set Hollywood, Spilberg, directorships, helicopters, here's Mitsotakis, here's the Prime Minister, the border control, Ursula, they're giving us money. People don't eat gossip. He doesn't eat! He understands you. Don't you see it? So you brought the situation here. And I'm telling you again: be careful what's happening on our islands. We're telling you again, be careful what's happening on our islands. We've told you a hundred times. And today we have seen something that Velopoulos is also entitled to. Since October, Minister - and you know it well - he has said and told you here to hold meetings with the ambassadors of Afghanistan, Pakistan, to contact and send the world there. And today we read that Mr Kumoucaskos is starting meetings with the ambassadors of these countries. He's got a right to that too! He's been saying it since October! You know what? It's indulgent to deserve, but to destroy your homeland. You can't even enjoy your justice. However, because you are an honest politician - and I say this from the heart - when you take the floor, I want you to say a "bravo" to this man in the policy place and who from the first day on the 7th of June who is in here has said all of this. And he's said it not because he has divination skills. Oh, no! He has said so because he is a realist and because he is independent and is not kept by anyone and has no obligation on anyone. Neither the party nor anything, nor Europe, nor nothing. This is the solution for Greece, for our country. The sooner we understand, the longer we win. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I told you about the islands, too. Two thousand were discharged only in Kastelorizo, ladies and gentlemen, where we have sixty ghosts. In Kastelorizo, which some are already playing on paper, some of the "bugs" of yours, the government. What if we lose Kastelorizo, the EOZ? Easy on the island now! What's Kastelorizo?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u200	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u201	Who said that? What if we lose Kastelorizo's EEZ?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u202	Say a name! Who said about Kastelorizo?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u203	Who said about Kastelorizo?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u204	Which one of us said about Kastelorizo? Say a name!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u205	It's absent. Well, you, Mr. Gika, no. However, today eight hundred illegal immigrants went to Kastelorizo. And now that we are talking at the port of Mytilini - you have seen the images, Mr Ghika, and I am sorry, Mr President, that I spoke personally, because you are also an islander - a small Moria has been set up outside the square. Do you know how full it is? Have you seen the images? And what you cannot throw away, Minister, is the world's driving away. NGOs are leaving. People are kicking them out, islanders. As the MATs the other day went to order in the way I want, they are now kicking the NGO out. These are the business of the state. We have been telling you to close and expel NGOs from the first moment. It's cancer in this problem. You're not listening! We checked eighty, we recorded them. The other four hundred fifty do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u206	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u207	I went to New Kavala the other day, Minister. Do you know what a guy there told me from a Danish NGO? The gentleman, he says, states congressman. Please, I'm saying, what's this? And I went in. DOM and NGO in Denmark are in charge. This is Greece, unfortunately! Where we're from! I come to something last, because things have tightened up a bit for the New Democracy Government. The month's over. There's not going to be a poll, you guys? Every month at the end of August, September, November, December, January, February, we also had a poll - in February - on how well New Democracy is going. I'm waiting. I'm waiting! Logically in the next few hours, and the poll will tell us how well New Democracy is going. Unless they're doing the poll we've been doing the push back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukokoros, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u209	Only a few minutes will I speak, Mr President. I also said in my first position, but I will now say that the circumstances are critical, that developments are serious and that coolness is required by all political forces. On the occasion of the immigration problem, I have also stressed in previous debates that it offers nothing to the national effort that is being made at this time to adopt positions expressed either by Mr Erdogan or by Turkey and that they are disposing of our sovereign rights in trying to blame the government, to make opposition, to speculate politically. In this way, we are doing nothing but strengthening Mr Erdogan's psychological operations, rather than throwing water into his mill. I think that this is not the time either of the cries or of political speculation, as I have said. The government coordinates and agrees with the opinion of the overwhelming majority of the Greek people give a difficult battle at the border. Today the Prime Minister with the entire leadership of the European Union was there, in the field, not at the Brussels offices. And all the European factors that represent Parliament, the European Commission, the European Union, that is, have been placed. And what did they say? They said the problem is European. Because in the past few days we have heard political forces tell us that we are not internationalizing the problem. All international actors have said the self-evident thing, which they did not say on other occasions, that Greece has the right to defend its borders and to apply its laws there. Now, you know that politics is being conducted with a programming. And we do not deny that there may have been mistakes and omissions both the previous year and the previous years. However, what is important now is to address this design of Mr Erdogan using unhappy people as a means of geopolitical pressure. I think we should all agree on that. Despite all the omissions that have been made, when you are conducting such a policy, a policy that is integrated and effective to date, towards individual individuals, as much as these are dense incidents and create flows, you have another way of dealing with the international community in relation to dealing with when you implement such a policy to tackle a geopolitical pressure plan, as is now being done. That's the big difference. I would once again like to say the following to all the political forces. You know, ladies and gentlemen, it is not easy to agree on such big issues or to give us all the same views. From a different perspective, we see things and that is why we represent different ideologies, different parties, different political forces. But, in the majors, I repeat existential in critical time, I think we can all take a step back and promote the country's interest. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And the country's interest at this time is to move all the means and prevent Mr Erdogan's plans, which are now obvious and critical of the entire international community. You will tell me 'in words'. The European Union today - I listened carefully to the President of the Change Movement earlier - took a first small step. Identify the problem. He said the problem is European. He promised help in material means and human resources. So what does Greece have to do, even alone now? Put your hands up? Should we not deal with the problem effectively through the effort made by Greek soldiers, Greek soldiers, Greek police officers? Does it not excite anyone that there are thousands of Greek policemen now asking to be seconded to Evros, seconded to the border? Should we not show minimum national consensus on such a matter? Is it now time for political gains and political losses? The government, if you like, at this time despite the great problem it has to deal with, could say that it has the vast majority of the Greek people with her. And I say that for those who are concerned about how the government goes to polling. We will also see the polls, ladies and gentlemen, in the very near future! Is it now time for polling when the country faces such a problem? Don't fight for polling, because some were campaigning for polling and said they don't echo the reality, that they are mistaken, made, directed. We've heard that. But that's second. The major issues right now are different. The Greek people also observe not only the individual Member, not just the individual factor, but also the party on how it is placed in the face of the problem. And of course we're all judging. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, too. Mr Hetas has the floor for a minute because he wants to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, thank you very much. I'm really gonna talk a minute and not six. I'll be very brief. I can't figure out who the speculators are. The winner is the one who has proposed to you since the first day what are the solutions you need to follow, and you reluctantly refuse to see them in front of you, or a speculator is the one doing communication games to make fun of the world? To figure out who the speculators are. I should also like to respond to what the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative said: what I was saying is not five. What you said now, I said it on the Step, a moment ago I said it. What are you talking about? Also, to the major ones you said we had to be united, you know the problem was the same big one, and five months ago we told you, but you were indifferent at that time and you probably didn't even count on us. The same big and major problem was, Mr Colleague, as it is now. So no karts, huh? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, When we invited her, you turned your back, now suddenly you saw the problem in front of you, 'Oh, a boogeyman!' When we yelled six months "it's coming!" you didn't see it in front of you. And as far as the polls are concerned, listen a little: we did not believe them, we do not believe them. Elections gave us 1.8%, and we got 4.2%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u212	But why are you fighting, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u213	Please don't interrupt! Finish, Mr. Heta!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u214	I don't know, I don't answer you, I say it so people can hear. So, in the run-up to the election, we were given 1.8%, and we got 4.5%. In fact, we're not concerned. The poll, ladies and gentlemen, is the Greek people and not the companies you have to mock you!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u215	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u217	Yes, I will give you the floor, but I would remind you that we have a bill: 'Agricultural cooperatives and other provisions', and Mr Vorides is also waiting to hear. Here, you have the floor for a minute too, Mr Katrin.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. Obviously, Mr Bukouros did not hear Mrs Gennimata's speech, because Mrs Gennimata, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, she did not express any satisfaction at today's meeting, as you seem to be celebrating the results of today's meeting. He was barely concerned and asked seven specific questions. And it may be that the government today, through its parliamentary representative, is pleased with today's meeting, but we have not got answers whether the Prime Minister in Alexandroupolis has asked specific questions and has received answers about the convergence of the European Council, about the threat of sanctions in Turkey - because there was no real condemnation of Turkey - as to whether there was any question of suspending the Dublin Rules of Procedure, whether there was a matter of direct decongestion and relocation of migrants and refugees into other European countries that came to show their solidarity and, of course, whether Greece would participate in the meeting that would be organised in the next few days by Mr Erdogan. And because these hours are critical and some in their dentistry are calling on us to show national consensus, I would like to say to my dear colleague in the New Democracy that if he sits down and sees his position, his prototype, when he blamed the previous government for opening up the borders, when he tried to prove that it was not for all that it was the acceptance of the government's policies from the Opposition, not just it is a demonstration of national unity, but for the reproduction of internal tensions, something that the country does not need. And I would like to end, Mr President, by saying that we as a Change Movement and as a PASOK do not have such a stand, we have lived in this Chamber ten years ago, when in critical national circumstances for the country New Democracy and SYRIZA we were accused of the decisions that we made at the time, to save the country and they took their tail out to do exactly what they denounced. So the time of our responsibility doesn't scare us, we've proved it over time and historically! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u221	Mr Buquoir, please, we will have no dialogue now with the parliamentary representatives. That's how no one's gonna talk. Mr Gikas has been waiting for a long time and on burning coals, Mr Pafilis is also sitting because he is a parliamentary representative and has the right to place himself in what is being heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u222	Mr President, I am sorry, I would like the floor for thirty seconds. I am not asking for the floor irregularly, so that impressions are not created.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u223	No, I did not say that I said that under the Rules of Procedure you have him, I just ask for understanding because, if we go to ball, the Members of Parliament will not speak. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u224	Mr President, obviously to a certain extent, due to the acidity and intensity of the events, the debate opens up and contains facts of time. The parliamentary procedure is shared by the living and, in my opinion, well. I heard the placements and let me say two words. What's the big deal right now? The general management of the migration-refugee? Is that what we're talking about now? The general? The one we've had for five years and seven years? Is that what we're talking about? Is that what colleagues have understood that this is the problem of days? The problem of the days is the implementation of a specific threat launched by Erdogan and the working of specific flows, in order to exert concrete political pressures with either the European Union or the United States, in relation to what is being done mainly and primarily in Syria. That's the conversation. Here, therefore, in the face of this crisis, not the others - the others are a general debate - this crisis has a specific problem. Thousands of people are pushed organized by Turkey to cross Greece. The political forces must be placed in this. What has the government done? The government won't allow it. The government won't let them through. The government stops them at the border. The government defends the Greek borders! That's what the government does! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because I hear about the internationalization, of course, of internationalization, but should we do this at the border or not? Protect the border of the country or not? Or should we go wait for internationalisation, when the summit will be convened, what results will the summit have, see what overall will the European Union's attitude on this issue be, have a debate on Dublin II and on its review process? When exactly? By the time this happens to our borders, would we do this? And by the way, didn't internationalization take place? I hear now and underestimate the value of what has become historical for the first time. Excuse me, I'm surprised. Can the country not make the maximum possible capitalisation and, of course, the representatives of Parliament - what is it? - that they come behind each other, all European leaders and make a statement, "We are here, we are next to Greece, the borders of Greece are Europe's borders". We'll see the translation of this thing. This political declaration, the recognition of the historical geopolitical role of Greece, is not the result - and I am sorry - of a political will? And to speak in particular: Is it self-evident that this would happen? Isn't it a result of the attitude and choice of our Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, this political product, this political result? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I'll be done. Right of every political force to take the place he thinks, but we won't download the conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u225	Mr. President, an hour...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u226	I'm done, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u227	No, I'm not talking about you, but about the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u228	I thought it was appropriate, because everyone has talked about it in detail. We will not lower the level of the debate at the present time by measuring the polls. Anyone who wants to talk about polling their right. We don't look at that. We are looking at what the demand is and what it is in the interests of the country. We would very much like - sincerely - at this difficult time for the place the political forces to formulate an integrated and structured reason and to place themselves in a clear position on the problems. Unfortunately, we don't have that. We expect Mr Tsipras' interview today, after four days, to hear whether or not he agrees with this policy or what he has to propose. We don't have his opinion. We heard from Mera25 his opinion. In fact, open borders to cross. We get it. It's his opinion. But, allow me, we will do what our patriotic conscience and our patriotic duty demands. We'll defend the border, defend the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u232	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u233	As I expected, when Mr. Voridis talks. We will give the floor first to Mr Apostolos for one minute and then to Mr Gregoriadis for also a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u234	This is not the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u235	What can we do now? They have the right. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u236	But I haven't spoken yet! How's it going to happen? What are we gonna do? Quotes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u237	Just a minute, Mr. Palphie. Come on, Mr. Apostle. Talk for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u238	We, Mr President, Minister, know that the borders are constantly guarded in Evros. You show something that has always been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u239	"Continued" is the same, i.e....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u240	Please don't interrupt him.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u241	So from this point of view, I think there is no question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u242	Well, you agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u243	Where the matter is concerned is that all these officials the Prime Minister of the European Union is discussing, express their support, but the next step is on the basis of the agreement signed by our country with the European Union and Turkey that has specific predictions. Finally, when will these be implemented? That's the point. That is why we too insist that the summit be held, because all things must finally be said on the basis of the existing commitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much. Mr. Gregoriadis from Mera25 has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u245	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Voridis, it's good not to put words in our mouths that we didn't say. There are the minutes of the House. None of us have ever said, from our Chief to our last member, who probably I am our last member, to open our country's borders. You may resort to the minutes of the House shortly after. That's the one. Secondly, the false dilemma you say: “What should we do? So should we leave them? Do not guard the borders?’ It's not real. The real question we all have to answer here is why we have reached the point that we must guard our borders. What political manipulations led the country to this dead end? Finally, I would like to ask you directly, since you also represent your Government, if you really share the words of your previous colleague, Mr Kotsou, that they are illegal immigrants and that they are smuggling people at our borders. I want you to answer us if this is a government position. Also, tell us if you share his view that they are aggressive and armed. These two questions I wanted to ask you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u246	Thank you very much Mr. Gregoriadis. Mr. Paphie, because you're so good, I'd like to ask that Mr. Gikas be given the lead I've got so shattered.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u247	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u248	Here, Mr. Gika, you have the floor. Then Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, followed by the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u250	Thank you too for your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, too, Mr. Paphie. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the substance of the bill, I will make two comments. The first one refers to what the Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution said, in this hint that he left that one of us - he meant by the New Democracy Parliamentary Group - he said - "You are not bored of what will happen to Kastelorizo!". I think these hours don't help such locations. I would remind you that the Prime Minister himself has repeatedly said that Kastelorizo is a red line. I have a second comment to make on what Mr Bored. He said the Prime Minister is basically 'fly in the wind of communists', if I remember this phrase well. I wanted to ask the following question: what happened today is a matter of communications? The fact that the leadership of the European Union, the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister of Croatia has come here and that what is happening in Evros is communication handling or is a major diplomatic success of the country which is facing this serious crisis, as we actually have a direct violation of human rights by Erdogan, who uses these people as pawns, in order to push Europe as well as the major powers in general, in order to achieve its objectives? So I think that handling by the Greek Government is appropriate. It has, of course, internationalised the issue and I hope that in the next few days and with Europe's help to normalise the situation. I shall now refer to the substance of this draft law, which is an important bill which helps its primary sector and culture together. It has important provisions. I am going to look at some of these. It gives the opportunity to establish a cooperative with fewer founding members - from twenty to ten - and the original cooperative capital reaches 10,000 euros. There is also no need for the statute to go to the courts, to the Peace Court, but the supervisory authority of the Ministry of Rural Development may grant approval. So this means speeding up the establishment of an agricultural cooperative. It enables cooperative farmers to obtain loans, micro-credits, but up to EUR 25 000. This enables a farmer with this money to improve his business, to make it more competitive. It gives tax incentives that are very important. Profit, for example, will be taxed like dividends. The surpluses that a rural cooperative can have will be free of charge. The transfer to the register is without tax. The same is true of goodwill. The draft law helps to establish agricultural cooperatives and places that do not have many producers involved. I will give you an example of my constituency in Corfu. We've got the kumquats producers. There's no co-operative. In this draft law a cooperative can be set up, since the founding members are ten and the production can be made more competitive. Also, with regard to my constituency, we have over 12 thousand olive growers who deal with the olive tree. Unfortunately, however, the lots are small. The cost of production and price of olive oil is very low. With this draft law the possibility of creating new agricultural cooperatives, improving the product, i.e. the product produced from olive oil, making the whole process more competitive and, of course, increasing the price of olive oil. It is also very important that islands with less than three thousand five hundred inhabitants, but also special products, are given the opportunity to create agricultural cooperatives with fewer than ten members. This, for example, is important to us both for the Corridor Islands, but also for the island of Paxos. So I think it is an important bill, which really improves the situation, because we all remember what happened in the past few years. We all saw the shrinking of the cooperative movement. We all remember the number of agricultural cooperatives in 2016, 2017 and 2018. We have observed over the years that there has been a shrinkage. This draft law clearly improves the situation. The possibility is also given to cooperatives which do not have significant investment funds, bringing an investor of up to 35% of the shares, to significantly assist the agricultural cooperative and the product produced. So for all these reasons, I think this draft law helps the primary sector and the rural cooperative movement in our country. In any case, it also creates the National Agricultural Cooperatives, a higher institutional union, which is something that farmers demand. For all these reasons, of course, it is moving in a positive direction and I would ask you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much for keeping time, Mr Ghika. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u253	It is indeed a serious situation. It is almost an explosive problem, the refugee - immigration - and, of course, Mr Voridis, we will say what we are doing now, but we will also make an account in here. We will make an account as political parties of what everyone said and what they did, because all the confrontation that is taking place here, apart from individual differences, wants to substantially hide the strategic symposium of all governments so far. And I'm saying, everybody. Firstly, we have this explosion of refugees - immigration - beyond the usual ones. There are two reasons: interventions, wars and dismantling of states. Who's doing it, really? Isn't NATO making it? Aren't you all in favour of NATO? Is it not the European Union that worships it from morning to night, even now, which, in the words of the air - why is that what they have said - is trying to overcome this problem that it creates? The parties all supported these decisions and supported them politically. First of all. Is there a veto anywhere in what's happened all these years? In 2004, ladies and gentlemen, you do not know that, at the Istanbul Summit, the 'NATO - New Middle East' was adopted, which was worked out by the pentagon of the American, all the Member States adopted it and came to the European Parliament, which approved it, agreed and voted for it by all except the JRC. Isn't that a huge political responsibility? What was followed by the 'New Middle East' project? Hell in the Middle East. In addition to the "Arab Spring" hailed by the left - supposedly - by SYRIZA, what happened? Libya's been dismantled. It's broken. Yes or no? Why? They didn't like Gaddafi? A month ago he was all tens of them because he tried to change the oil contracts. Then the war broke out in Syria. What political position have you taken all parties in the intervention that was open to intervention in Syria's interiors, as in other countries, and which created the explosive problem of refugee? So that I don't go back to Afghanistan and Iraq. Politics, then, have you all agreed - but all - the governments? You agreed. Did you veto SYRIZA? Did you say anything 'no'? You have persecuted the Syrian ambassador and embassy from here, at the critical points, by decision - supposedly - of a progressive SYRIZA government. New Democracy and PASOK, didn't you do the same? Did you send Libya a fry to ask for us? Yes or no? You sent. Minister of National Defence was Venizelos then, if I'm not mistaken. Did you do what the Americans, NATO and the European Union have asked you to do? Yes or no? You therefore have a direct political responsibility for supporting them and why not only are you politically supporting them, but you also respond militaryally. And now we have a new round: Patriot in Saudi Arabia. We have soldiers who are going to Libya. That's politics. So who's to blame for all this so you don't have to fight for free? Second theme, Dublin II. When the regulation came to the European Parliament, we denounced it. We said that Greece would be transformed and, secondly, other countries into soul warehouses, that it is unacceptable, etc. What have all the Members of the European Parliament voted for? ‘Yes’. And the New Democracy and the PASOK and the Coalition. In fact, the coalition was even more advanced. They said that these measures are few and others need to be taken. So today why are you whining? Is Dublin II a cause that can't leave 90% of the refugees from Greece directly? Yes or no? We only raised our voices and you were telling us graphics. Here is your European Union and the results to make an account! Let's go down. Let's go to the pact. Mr. Vorides said Erdogan was using the refugee for the Indlib negotiations. Right to a certain extent, because there are others. Tell us, Mr. Voridis, have you denounced Turkey's invasion of Northern Syria as a government now? The duck! Cuveda! Did the previous ones report Turkey's operations, why didn't it go in now, has it been in a while? And how dare you talk about borders when Turkey, with the backs of the Americans and the European Union, takes the territory of a foreign country? Don't you have a voice here to speak? Nobody's talking. And now you didn't expect an explosion to happen? Besides, he said it before. And who support this Turkish aggressive policy today, not only there but elsewhere, but is it not time for me to say the rest? The Americans. First they greeted. From the European Union? Same. And they come and make statements to Evros. Thank you so much! On the one hand, they arm Erdogan and the refugees in Turkey to use, and on the other, you say that it was very important that they came to Evros and expressed their solidarity. What solidarity? Where's solidarity? When the crisis erupted, the first, the JRC went to the President of the Republic, and met with the Prime Minister at that time and made the proposal that we will bring it back: at the UN border and the European Union will take place on the spot, where everyone wants to go with planes and vapours - to say so - and to send them to those countries that want to go. This proposal was not supported by any political parties. This proposal that we formally tabled. No-one - but no-one - political party supported it. And all the money he gives to feed them there could give them to boats and planes and be transported to the countries they want to get off the ground. Not even 10% would live in Greece. That's what the evidence says. Not to say it's more than that. 90% or more wants to go to countries in Europe that had relatives, etc. Why didn't you support this proposal? Why didn't you testify to it, gentlemen of SYRIZA, in the European Union when you were a government? You, the New Democracy and the Movement of Change because you did not support it, say that "the JRC is right and that is the solution". That would be homogeneity - which you are asking for unity - to a policy of barbarism that you have been supporting for all these years. So what is it now? First of all, we are not all the same, nor are we all responsible. You are co-responsible and political, and as I said before, even in military terms. But what does life itself make? That the choice of all of you is with NATO, the European Union, to be 'the best children', the most 'willing'. SYRIZA is fighting now - where you've arrived! - that Greece is geostrategically upgraded with the agreement by which you handed all over Greece to the Americans and you say that New Democracy will continue to do so and "let's see if it will reach us". It's over you now! You've set the bar too high, but he did it! That made sense. So did all this strategy you had in practice? Half a million is on the Asia Minor coast. I don't know how many thousands of people have arrived in Evros. And what else did you do? You brought NATO to the Aegean - a big decision! - to help with the refugee. A hole in the water! NATO didn't come for the refugee. You called it in. No other government before he said it openly. SYRIZA Government - fighting imperialism otherwise! - brought NATO. What did NATO do when it came? His own plans serve. You have signed an agreement that only the Communist Party of Greece has denounced, an unacceptable agreement that the government, like SYRIZA, today, is asking for the agreement of the European Union - Turkey which, in addition, is entangled in the islands. Because if you take them to the mainland, he says, it changes. They can't return or anything. This unacceptable agreement signed and agreed by the SYRIZA government has been called into question by the New Democracy? Oh, no. Decision of the European Union and dogs tied up! So this line goes bankrupt, and we appeal to the people: As long as you are the good and disciplined child with the wolves - because they are, their interests are looking, they don't care about anything else, they care about not the interests of the people, but the economic size they have - so much you go to a dead end policy. And, here, it reaches a point where politics can be a dead end. You'll tell me, what do you suggest? Firstly, abolishing Dublin, leaving Greece unilaterally, Dublin II, which will not be bound. You're shaking my head, aren't you? Of course, we are saying 'bad words' here. They're busting us, crippling us, dismantling the country, dismantling refugees and immigrants, stacking them on islands in unacceptable conditions, and not daring to raise a government's head and say 'I'm not applying it. Take them where they want to go and you take care of the rest." Secondly, they should close the hot spots on the Aegean islands and not be created either closed or open. It doesn't work anymore! And, you know, now I don't want to talk differently about what it means and more generally. The European Union and the UN should organise asylum procedures within Turkey and at the border with Greece and at the border with Syria and directly - what we said before - move into the area they want to go to. And so Greece is unblocking, but the refugees will go where they want and will not be locked in a country here. And finally, of course, stop participation and support for what I said before and do all the time. When you support the people's murders everywhere - because they are these organisations, they are nothing else, the interests of capital worldwide are defended, they have bleeded into the whole of mankind, they leave nothing standing, they don't care about anything - when you support such actions, so when you participate - and not to say how - then you have these issues. We also want to put an end to the issue of the borders and all the fight that is taking place here on the closed or open borders. For us cosmopolitanism is as dangerous as nationalism. As long as there are countries there will be borders and these must be defended. And as far as all this theory is concerned, what are we supposed to be? It's different countries. Barbarity and capitalism dominates everywhere. So we say that the necessary border guarding in Evros cannot be used - and take good note of what we say - to legitimise far-right voices and actions, open and covered, to be heard and provoked by racist ministers to keep those to blame. And those to blame aren't these miserable people. Of course, there may be criminals and others, but all of them? When the other guy plays the life of the crown letters with a chance of 10-20% coming here, he's in a dead end. We can't turn the world against them. And they're not all criminals.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u254	Not everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u255	Leave it now, do you have an envelope?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u256	Not everyone, I say.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u257	I say: gather. You are not now about to baptize millions of criminals and stabbings. Everything he's got. Why isn't it here, in Greece? Doesn't he have anyone else? Well? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Oh, he doesn't have one here? Well, you should probably get a transcription, but you don't get to the House. So I keep going. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] All these voices want to turn the Greek people against the victims and not the victims, which are NATO, the United States, your top allies, who are glad that we have - what do they call it? - geostrategic upgrade and they actually become Erdogan's best ally - they become the best ally - who of course try to use this world for his own purposes. And I will close with this and thank you, Mr President. It is unacceptable and dangerous - and I imagine the government will hear - to set up groups that control cars, which break what they do not like in Mytilini and elsewhere. It is unacceptable for them to take the law into their hands by creating a paramilitary circuit of ambiguous citizens, not to say criminal physiognomy. The government can pick them up because they really take the law in their hands. There's Police, there's all the services, the Army, etc. they do what they do. Why do you know what's going on? Tomorrow the snake is resurrected with such movements and spontaneous movements, supposedly, which are not spontaneous, but paramilitary movements or organizations at all. The Greek people don't need that, they've lived. He can very well understand the situation and fight the real opponent as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. It is known to the House that from the above Western theories they attend the meeting, after being informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" hall of thirty-six students and students and two teachers attending the 7th Xanthi Gymnasium. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Zetta Makrei has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u259	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to the position of Mr Pafilis who was an attack of erga omnes. I am not going to comment on anything, not because I agree - obviously and I disagree radically - but because I have deep respect and am inclined to stability. I will only say that the New Democracy has no problem comparing what it has said and what it is doing. On the contrary, the Civic Opposition will be very embarrassed, if we remind ourselves of what he said, what he said, what he did and what he suggests now. And I'll tell you something. I think no one agrees with this morbid nonsense that SYRIZA's executive has said that the tension in Evros is directed by New Democracy. I therefore prefer, Minister, the embarrassment and silence of Mr Tsipras' speech to such nonsense that we hear unregulatedly. I imagine that you too, with the experience you have, would not expect the Civic Anti-Civilisation that brings back to the surface its worst self to show consensus, coolness and agree to your own legislative effort, an effort that Kyriakos Mitsotakis had clearly and unequivocally announced and pre-electionally. The Government of New Democracy will implement specific objectives and actions, aimed at strengthening competitiveness and moving to a new, modernistic model of rural entrepreneurship. The first of these actions, the core of the reforms, comes to end the anachronist statism, cover the pathogens of the past in the organization of the cooperative movement and, at the same time, form the conditions to deal with a number of other weaknesses. This reform that you, Minister, and your staff have successfully worked out, and that is why you deserve warm congratulations, we are today called upon to support and vote in favour, inaugurating the next day of agricultural cooperatives, which will now operate with a new institutional framework, private-financial criteria, obviously taking into account the specificities of cooperation. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has passed since each farmer had a 100-horse tractor for 50 acres. It is equally over and the season when the farmer does not know or want to use the computer or tablet to facilitate the effectiveness of his work. Times have changed, so have the preconditions. The common objective of all the parties involved should be the sustainability and competitiveness of the Greek agricultural sector, as the global agri-food system is now in a process of radical transformation, that of agriculture. Moreover, the development of technology and automation in the primary sector over the last decade has changed the data. The implementation of innovative technologies in both production and processing of agricultural products is essential to ensure adequate response to new challenges, such as increasing climatic conditions, feeding the increasing population and ensuring the population renewal of the agricultural sector. At the same time, it gives the possibility of safer, more economic and, above all, sustainable production processes, while contributing to increasing farmers' incomes and facilitating cooperation, even because of distances, is extremely difficult. However, while the Greek agricultural sector has huge margins and prospects for growth, as well as comparative and competitive features and advantages, it has so far failed to create economies of scale and transform these comparative advantages into levers of growth. The small farms, which are advancingly linked to continuous subsidies and give gross added value per acre of about 60% less compared to Italy - these are elements of EUROSTAT - the lack of qualified training for workers in primary production, the lack of a strong link between innovation and entrepreneurship, as well as the lack of links between the research on agricultural holdings and small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas - and still prevent - the incorporation of innovative actions into the production process, but above all the creation of an economy of scale. In addition, normal misery and delaying practices in rural areas, rooted deep for too many decades, are a brake on the modernism of the sector and its competitiveness. We should finally promote and launch as a one-way path to modernising the agricultural process the vertical rejection of the state-owned cooperative or rural movement and seek new ways of producing and marketing agricultural and livestock products, either through innovation, either through business networks, or through new types of business cooperatives. We should also create producer associations, based on the logic of entrepreneurship, competition, innovation and quality. These farmers will be at the top of the major European reclassifications in the agricultural sector. Only the protagonists of the new type of cooperatives will be able to pass through the era of digital agriculture and become competitive. Although the first law regulating the status of agricultural cooperatives, ladies and gentlemen, dates from the period of the National Reconstruction of Eleftherios Venizelos - is Law 602/1915 - today, a century later, with six different laws on cooperatives and at least a thousand major amendments, the number of cooperatives, their members and their turnover is still not exactly known. There has been an investigation by the 2017 NEEA that shows that from six thousand seventy-seven-seven association statutes suddenly disappeared five thousand seventeen hundred and only the rest left. I will not insist on that because colleagues have already referred to it. Mr Stamenitis has been specifically mentioned. I will only say that there are two hundred sixty rural cooperatives making an annual turnover of over 500,000 euros. Nor do we need to comment on the debts of billions that many cooperatives have, the mismanagement phenomena that even reach the limits of criminal liability and the clearing procedures due to their connection with debts that currently exceed EUR 3.5 billion and are all due. In summary, the new bill, ladies and gentlemen, is innovating on three main axes: it provides for participation in the agricultural cooperatives of members, investors with the right to vote on decisions. It promotes flexible small shapes, provided that special conditions are imposed on them. It systemizes the functional and operational advisability of agricultural cooperatives, providing the possibility of microfinance in the form of credits and the creation of a special reserve of their surpluses or profits, and redefines the tax regime governing their operation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, the reality has shown that the structure of agricultural cooperatives, as set up and implemented to date, reflects the unsuccessful policy which did not aim to develop its own cooperation, but to use it as a party and political tool. We should now be in the interests of development acceleration and sustainability in the global economy to change this anachronistic perception and systematically cultivate cooperation between individuals who bear the spirit of entrepreneurialism and the cooperative sector that bears the values of co-operation and long-term construction of social capital. The new type of cooperatives are a matter for the members of the new type that in turn build a new state of the modern type. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mrs. McCrey, for the time. I would like to inform colleagues that tonight we will take the list to Mr Neocles Cretan from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u261	What's the number?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u262	It's number 32, Mr. Karasmani. Mr Georgios Karasmanis has the floor from New Democracy for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in our speech on national matters we must be very careful. The Greek people are united. He's trying right. The Prime Minister takes this big issue seriously and responsibly at national and European level. The armed forces and security forces are effectively defending our borders, following the asymmetrical threat that our country has been facing from neighbouring Turkey in recent days. After the last speech of the Minister who gave a real dimension to this matter, I think I should stop and return to the issue of the agenda which is the agricultural cooperatives. With the draft legislation under discussion, it is again attempting to regulate the legal framework governing the operation of agricultural cooperative organisations in our country, where family law, property culture and, in general, our economic history have not facilitated cooperation and joint economic efforts, especially in the rural area. That is why I believe that at the current juncture this bill is in the right direction, as it incorporates elements that meet the requirements of a modern society and a modern cooperative movement, which is trying to survive, to develop in terms of a global market and a competitive economy. At the same time, I believe that, with its incentives, it contributes to the proper functioning of agricultural cooperatives and the development of healthy competition opportunities, given that everyone agrees that the development of cooperative units in the primary sector of our economy is now an undeniable necessity. This is the only way to achieve economies of scale. With the draft law being debated, I would say - a large proportion of private individuals' participation in the co-operative capital and in the administration of agricultural cooperatives. I think it would be a mistake, given the current situation in our cooperative movement, not to try to do so. Be sure that very soon the act and life will judge the effectiveness of the project. The main concern of the state, in response to Article 12 of the Constitution, is not just to set a stable institutional framework in time and legal functions, that is to say, how an agricultural cooperative works, but also to give that impetus, but also economic and other property, which will turn the interest of our farmers in the form of cooperative schemes. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I firmly believe that the provisions of the draft law would have a greater resonance and greater value in the agricultural world, if, together with this, there were to be a parallel exploitation and exploitation of specific programmes of measures included in our country's existing rural development programme for the period 2014-2020. And to be clearer, I tell you that since July 2014 we have drawn up and incorporated into the Rural Development Programme, which was approved by the European Commission three very important, in my opinion, programmes and measures. Firstly, this is a measure of 9 which concerns producer groups with a budget of 25 000 000, which has to do with strengthening the creation and operation of producer groups, consortia and interbranch organisations, a programme which the previous government has left for four and a half years untapped, without drawing a single euro for the benefit of Greek farmers. Even her dibympic announcements, such as in 2017 for the establishment of a National Interprofessional Organisation in peach, remained on paper. The ink is fresh, the journalistic flashes from the signatures from the festival of Veroia are fresh. We are still waiting for the recommendation of the interprofessional peach. Minister, you have opened the way for the establishment of national interbranch organisations. So go on to recommend this interprofessional peach. It is a demand for all the producers, who believe that with interprofessional protection, prices will be protected, a brake will be placed on what is done every summer, the Oriental bazaar, where illegality, irregularity and speculation are waging. I don't have the time to expand. The second programme - a measure, M16, with a budget of EUR 87 000 000 to strengthen cooperative schemes and this has remained frozen for four and a half years, while its implementation could provide for the building of bridges between science and the implementation of innovative agricultural technologies in practice, further strengthen the competitiveness of primary businesses, especially in the food and local agricultural products sector, while also contributing to the search for new cultivation practices linked to environmental protection and climate change-adjusted practices. The third, the M2 programme, with a total budget of EUR 125 000, is for agricultural advisers, namely the European Union-funded advisory activities to support the Greek farmer and farmers in dealing with the daily problems of his work. For four and a half years, this measure has sprinkled into the drawers of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, and now the new political leadership of the Ministry is rushing to prevent the dates so that the funds are not lost. This is a programme - a measure which, for example, could also be exploited by the new National Co-ordination Organisation of Agricultural Co-operatives, which is intended to set up a draft law to ensure that cooperative Greek farmers, especially young farmers and farmers, improve their knowledge, sustainable management and overall return to their exploitation. I would, however, like to draw your attention, Minister, because the information comes to my ears that various scientists are starting to show up in order to break down these EUR 125 000, hijacking the minimum geotechnic consultants, while the aim of the initial programme that we prepared and submitted to the European Commission was to make use of six thousand geotechnics under the supervision of ELGO - DIMITRA. So, ladies and gentlemen, there are programmes, there are measures, there are funds, there is still a lot of time, where the state needs to move to practically support the agricultural cooperative movement and the Greek farmer, as I believe that the amendment I have tabled to offset insurance contributions to the ELGA with the due compensation to laws declared in emergency situations will also add. We, Minister, told you that we experienced this last year in Pellas, when on June 10 a storm and hurricane bathtub, accompanied by severe quartzing, literally swept through the prefecture and destroyed all the trees. Whole plantations were rooted, sheltered and storehouses fell and we were lucky not to mourn victims, as took place on the same day in Halkidiki, which unfortunately had victims. The very same problem is with the neighboring Imathia.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u264	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u265	Mr President, just one minute with your tolerance, please. The Ministry of Finance has, in its decision, suspended the debts of farmers, and I think, Mr Minister, you must also do something like that, as the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, that is to enable producers to offset their insurance contributions by the compensation they are entitled to. Otherwise, there's no way they're gonna pay because they're totally destroyed. The damage is biblical. There is no euro to be able to pay their insurance contributions. They're having a survival problem. The acceptance of the amendment will be redemption for them, Minister, and it will be positively credited to you. I will say two words about the two amendments you have tabled. As regards the amendment to suspend the prosecution of members of the administrations of agricultural association organisations, I have been placed in committee. It's fair, right. I am voting in favour of it, as well as the amendment relating to the proper functioning of the TSE and GEOB organisations for the invitation of experienced technical staff, as well as the provision which provides for the extension of the deadline for the ratification of abnormal legal acts, which concerns many of our fellow citizens. Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u266	Be well! Ladies and gentlemen, I announce that the Foreign and Finance Ministers tabled a draft law on 3-3-2020: "Creation of a Donation Contract between the public-owned institution called "Alexandros S. Onassis", the anonymous company called "ARIONA GREECA Anonymous company of artistic and cultural events" and the Greek State. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Now Mr Economou John from New Democracy, who for those who do not know, is a farmer and can tell us a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u267	And a geopath.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u268	Part-time farmer. He's got a great unit. Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by referring to the great strategic national success, which of course bears the seal of the Government and Mr Mitsotakis, but is mainly a national success in what happened today. Today the whole of the European leadership found out on the ground that the Turkish President has turned his country from a state to the largest movement of people in the world. Of course, if we are to be clear and honest, the findings should have the same continuity in the diplomatic field and in the decisions, because the situation on our islands is already explosive and the continuation of Turkey's stumbling of people in Evros is extremely dangerous. At the same time, it is clear that any attempted and motivated invasions and border breaches cannot be tolerated. With determination, with high morality, the soldiers, the police, the porters, the border guards do their duty and have our trust and respect. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill attempts to organise a strategic importance for the development of the rural economy, for these cooperatives. First of all, we must make it clear that cooperatives are business associations of owners and as such, they are institutions of the free economy and the market and are therefore fully compatible with the ideology of a party, such as the New Democracy, which considers private initiative, the entrepreneurship of the main pillars of growth and prosperity. In addition, however, cooperatives and other mechanisms, such as producer groups, can offer an effective and satisfactory response to one of the most structural problems of Greek agriculture, the small size and partitioning of the clergy. The cooperative organization of producers allows them to acquire what is necessary to compete in a hard globalised environment, without protectionism, in which, in order to survive, you have to produce quality and at a low cost. The economies of scale that can be achieved can salvage ownership in agriculture and make it profitable, more profitable than the one they are today. But the cooperative organisation does not only mean economies of scale, one in fact defensive movement. It means that farmers can move aggressively. Size makes you a central player, a interlocutor with markets, with traders, an estimated factor in the sources of economic resources extraction. The size enables someone to go further, to lay the management rules of its production, to certify it, to differentiate it, to ID it, to standardize it and to process it, so as to increase revenue and revenue. In the committee on the position of the rapporteur, the position of the Minister and his colleagues has been detailed on the new possibilities, the areas that the new law gives me, so I am still coming back. I want to stand from now on. The success or not of a cooperative organisation is a result of the management of its members. Our farmers should be inspired and exemplified by the examples and traditions of the Greek cooperative organization - even in the pre-revolutionary years, I remind you of the Cooperative of the Vineyards - but also by other international standards that exist in Europe today, Austria, the Netherlands, France. The President reminded me that many of them happen to know them well because of my dairy business. Such examples, of course, exist in Greece and there are many important and important examples in Fthiotis, such as the olive-growing cooperative in Stylis, such as the peasant cooperatives in Makris and Molos, such as the fishing cooperative in Agios Konstantinos. The bill should be dealt with by the Greek producers as a starting point, because otherwise, its failure will have catastrophic effects first for themselves and their families and then for the rural economy. I now come to a very relevant issue with what we are discussing today. A few days ago, Minister, you had an excellent debate on the progress of the new CAP negotiations. Our first aim must be for the country to save as long as possible all the resources at its disposal or even the reduction in the budget, despite the difficulties created by both Brexit and the need to finance new challenges. After all, as the Prime Minister has quite rightly observed, at this very critical turn for Europe, we cannot want to achieve more things with less resources. The second objective must be to make use of these resources in order to make the necessary adjustments so that we produce more, more accurate, products, but consumers can buy them. The third objective must be to increase agricultural income. Ladies and gentlemen, Dutch agricultural exports account for 12% of the country's GDP. Greece is a deficit of 1.7%. I quote these figures, not because I have the illusion that there is a chance that we will have to cover decades, not to say more. This information is submitted in order to prove how wrong and ultimately disastrous it is that employment with agriculture is the subject of delayed economies. The Netherlands, France, Israel are denying this claim. Their example shows us the enormous scope we have to develop agriculture, if we do so on modern terms, if we remove obstacles, if we concentrate on research, if we focus on new varieties, if we experiment with new technical crops, if we enter large commercial networks. Every one of what I said is a separate chapter in itself with a lot of sub-capitals underneath. I would like to focus on two points: firstly, the need for extensive projects to increase irrigated areas which also lead to an increase in production. And secondly, the creation of an extensive whole country and with the aim of covering all crops, a network of agricultural forecasts and warnings, in order to protect our crops from insults and enemies that monoculture, as well as climate change, are magnifying. Are these costing? Of course they cost, like all public works. But, ladies and gentlemen, here is the important thing. Public work can not only be the construction of the metro or a port or a major road, what needs to be done is to leave this logic and state only one transport or building project. It must also be the projects that I have mentioned before, and that will yield much more quickly. I'm closing, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, agriculture can really help the country, provided we deal with it, understand the enormous potential for growth and give it the priority it needs. The bill under discussion faces an important gap: it is an important step in this direction, which is why I am voting in favour of it, and I call on you to vote in favour of it too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr. Economou, for the time. Mr Yoyakas Vassiliou has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Yoyaka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I, too, would like to express my warmest congratulations, my satisfaction and our pride in the efforts made by military, police and port forces at our borders. Ladies and gentlemen, in the New Democracy we have not concealed that we also have a different conception in the agricultural sector. We believe in the power of cooperative schemes, farmers' associations, agricultural cooperatives. We believe that their unobstructed development is one of the roads to make a greater impact on our producers' properties and leverage, to give more value to our agri-food products, to reduce production costs. And because we believe in the power of cooperatives, we want to support them in every way available, give them potential and flexibility, and that is what we do with this bill: we give the cooperatives the choice, we choose to build a cooperative without unnecessary procedures, with as little administrative and financial burdens as possible, to choose how to regulate their relationships and how to organise their activities, to choose whether, how and how they want to claim their big, to measure their forces towards competition either in the Greek market or abroad. Our aim is to give the cooperative activity the necessary tools to open its wings. Ladies and gentlemen, at the meetings of the committee, many colleagues from the opposition disagreed with the possibility of a private investor with the right to vote of up to 35% of the total number of votes. It has been said that the principles of the cooperative are being violated, that it is the Trojan Horse of Capital, that it will not work, so that it is unnecessary. The truth is that neither the democratic administration, the autonomy nor the independence of the cooperatives are violated, that, first of all, the entry into or not of the investor depends solely on the members - producers - that investors may not only be private, but also other cooperatives, both Greek and European, that without the right to vote, as is currently the case, and without the possibility of shaping or affecting decisions, no investor has been interested in putting his money, that in any case, apart from the fact that the rules of each cooperative are laid down in each of the cooperative's statutes, those rules that prevent arbitrariness and weaknesses of majority will are laid down. There is one other thing, ladies and gentlemen, which is worth keeping, because it has also been said by a representative of the cooperative movement itself: that an investor's entry does not only mean entering capital, it can mean importing knowledge in areas such as: Administration, sales, product identity. It may mean opening to new crops, new varieties, new methods, new activities. It means better conditions of access to regional and international markets, but also what is called vertical networking such as: Synergies with processors and tourist businesses. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we want agricultural cooperatives that can have a leading role in the development of the primary sector again. And that is what we believe can be done in two ways: removing obstacles and releasing them from the suffocating state embrace and giving them the weapons, so that they can stand up to a competitive environment, returning the greatest possible benefits to their members. After all, our vision of rural cooperatives is what we want to achieve as a government and we said as a opposition: to pass this model of family, small-scale exploitation, the model of rural business and the logic of entrepreneurship and extroversion. So in power united, then. And this power, the power of many we want to inspire and encourage our producers. In conclusion, Mr Minister, I would also like to support the amendment tabled by the former Minister, Mr Karasmanis, which enables farmers to offset their insurance contributions with the allowances they will be entitled to this year, because in great catastrophes farmers cannot really meet their obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr. Yoyaka, for the time. Ms. Chapter Maria - Alexandra has the floor. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our country has been experiencing an unprecedented situation in the last few days. What is happening and we are all watching at Evros is an active, serious and asymmetrical threat to our national security. This is an organised and coordinated pressure on our eastern land and sea borders. Thousands of refugees and immigrants under Turkey's tolerance or guidance have created a particularly tense situation in the region. The neighbor's attitude is unacceptable. In violation of the European Union-Turkey Agreement and the obligations arising from it, our neighbours, instead of controlling and restricting the illegal trafficking of migrants and refugees, come essentially and play their own role as a traveller. In this reality, the Greek Government, the Armed Forces of the country, the Greek Police and the Greek people stand to the point. Our Government, operating in lightning and methodically, provided in every direction the will to defend the integrity of our country and the preservation of our borders. Our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis proves in fact that he is the leader who in the difficults with soberness, knowledge, boldness and efficiency works in the national interest and values of Hellenism. The Armed Forces and the Security Corps have shown and demonstrated their readiness in all directions, a readiness to prevent thousands of attempts to illegally enter the country and are worth congratulating all those who are at the border determined to safeguard them. Finally, the love and support that the Greek people carry from every corner of our country to the uniforms in Evros is remarkable. The unity and harmony shown by our people in the difficult circumstances make us proud of our origins and our nation. The only missing from the national effort is SYRIZA and the Greek people draw their conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the bill we are discussing. The primary agricultural sector has been the backbone of Greek society and economy for many decades. Greece and farms are synonymous. Over the years, with the changes that have taken place in the structure of our society and the production base, we find that Greek agricultural production is not as competitive as other countries. Low productivity, little access to foreign markets, fragmentation of the clergy are assumptions that lead us to reduced competitiveness. Within this reality the agricultural cooperatives are at a standstill. And what do I mean? A total of about four and a half thousand rural cooperatives across the territory, two thousand eighteen are inactive - almost half a hundred are in the process of resolving and clearing, while only around eight hundred are active and informed in the National Register of Agricultural Cooperatives and other collective bodies. Of these eight hundred, and half of the co-operatives fare below EUR 50 000 per annum. As we all understand it, this needs intervention and change. And this intervention comes with the current bill of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. It comes to solve problems that Mr.4384/2016 failed to resolve, your law, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You have set bureaucratic and complex procedures and obligations for the operation of agricultural cooperatives. You made them disloyal as a shape. What are we doing today? We are establishing a modern legislative framework for cooperatives that meets the needs of the 20th century and the rules of the market. We support the self-employed, thereby enabling the partners to take the decisions that concern them. We give farmers the opportunity to exploit the attraction of private capital and the participation of investors. We don't say they have to. We do not deprive them of that possibility, however. In order for the cooperatives to survive and through them farmers must operate in accordance with the rules of the free market, and we are giving them the supplies. We are simplifying the procedure for establishing a rural cooperative with the approval of a statute by the supervisory authority, the department of the Ministry of Rural Development and not by a judicial authority, as it was until now, we are reducing the number of members required to at least ten people from twenty who are today for the establishment of a rural cooperative, and we are making possible the creation of a rural cooperative with fewer persons, provided that special conditions exist. We thus drive the cooperatives into a more flexible shape. We are substantially strengthening the right of association. We give flesh and bone to the apt ancient waste "power in union" through joint efforts and the division of tasks to achieve objectives that would individually be very difficult, if not impossible, to achieve. Through the exercise of the right of association, therefore, the strength of the individual to achieve a variety of goals is multiplied. We tailor the cooperatives to the needs of our time. We are redetermining the tax regime governing the operation of agricultural cooperatives. The surpluses created by the rural cooperative are not taxed. We tax the profits held by members as a dividend, in accordance with the provisions of the current taxation and exempt any goodwill resulting from the valuation of the assets in the transformation of the agricultural cooperative from each tax. Ladies and gentlemen, the successful primary sector of our country in the first 20th century is translated into a leading role for our farmers and our products on the world market with products of quality and competitive quality, products produced in a place blessed. That is where we aim with this bill, to strengthen cooperation, to increase their cooperatives and turnover, to increase members and to make stronger cooperative schemes. We want a strong primary sector. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u274	To thank my colleague for the time, first of all. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Bukoros Christos, has the floor for three minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u275	Mr President, you are aware that I am entitled under the Rules of Procedure to twelve minutes because I have spoken three and six minutes in my prototype and in my dentext. I will not in any way abuse or even take the time I am entitled to, respecting the fact that the time has passed and also that there are many colleagues who are waiting to speak. I just wanted to say, given the debate that took precedence on the issues that have arisen over the last few days and concern all Greeks, that some time ago the former Prime Minister and President of SYRIZA, Mr Alexis Tsipras, in an interview with the "MEGA" said that he would follow the same policy and well sealed the borders and, indeed, named...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u276	Sealed up was the border.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u277	Ladies and gentlemen, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u278	Don't falsify his words.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u279	Don't worry. I would refer you to your President's interview, who described the case as an organised plan and an invasion effort, which he had not described as having the same designations in the previous years when he was a Prime Minister or in the previous months that he was not. To know what we're talking about in this Chamber. This, of course, if you are causing and worrying, the fact that he speaks today, four days after the events began, proves that he did not have anything to say and, of course, realizing that this policy supported by the vast majority of the Greek people is in the right direction, is still in the right direction and is prepared to adopt it. We don't blame him for that. Indeed, it must be an honest effort of all the political forces for an intrinsic front, because at the moment the Greek Government is doing nothing but defending our sovereign rights, protecting the Greek borders. Here to put a perfect one and say that we all agree. And to talk about the bill, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, I see an ideological confrontation about the core of the bill and because I have the luck of coming from regions where there were pioneers of the cooperative movement, the pioneers of the cooperative movement, I would like to say that the seasons have changed. Indeed, the association of farmers at the beginning of the 20th century was a step forward and productive for the country, but then agriculture did not have the form today, did it not have its business dimension, did it not have that volume worldwide and, above all, we talked about bulk products - so? - We weren't talking about a complete chain of value. That is what the Greek producer is called upon to compete today. And he may have the ideas, the will and the willingness to cooperate, but should the Greek state not come today to facilitate him and give him the necessary financial instruments? What do we say today? You see one side ideally. You see the entry of private capital investors in the cooperatives. But you do not see the possibility of cooperative itself through the use of such financial instruments. Don't tell me the banks to date and so on, because, on the one hand, the banks see the cooperative movement as they see it, but the possibility comes today through the cooperative bill to fund the farmer itself, up to EUR 25 000. That's why I didn't hear a word from anyone in the counterpopulation. So the dual goal of this bill is to give a liquidity. And what's the highest, the further aim of this bill? To put the Greek farmer back as a cooperative member, because here we are not talking about free farmers. What did your previous bill do? What's the difference? He said "to deliver 80% of your product to the cooperative to be a member". That, of course, was the case, the bill provided for. Did it really happen? You have not been informed that the black market in agricultural products has taken place over the past few years. Why? On the one hand, because 80% were binding, on the other hand by increasing tax rates and by linking them to the insurance of their farmers, they had to limit turnover. Do you think that the black market had been flooded with agricultural products? So today's bill says that the opportunity is given to groups of farmers, to shapes of young farmers who have innovative ideas that are willing to look for funding and to take part in private investors, the majority and the general meeting of the cooperative will decide on what conditions the private investor will enter, to what percentage and what its role will be. It will not be decided by the private investor that I come to take 35% and "dance as I beat the bullies" in your dear expression. It's all for this bill. And what's the important goal? The real aim is to enable the Greek farmer finally to complete this value chain, which is production, certification, processing, standardisation, market network internally and abroad. Today, if the model you are supporting was successful, it would not only be 17% of the products through cooperative schemes, while in the rest of Europe 35% and 40% are moved, according to the latest figures. If the model that you stand for was correct, we would not have collected goodwill from European farmers moving between 60% and 70% and the recovery of goodwill from Greek farmers would not exceed 30%. This bill that the Minister, Mr. Voridis, brought here, seeks new roads that may be world-familiar. They can be applied in fewer countries, yes. But, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you must also consider the Greek peculiarities. Today the Greek farmer doesn't have any ideas, he doesn't work less. He has a small lot and a lack of funds, and that fights the bill. He's coming to give him the opportunity to attempt in his field, but not to stay there. Being the first in battle in the field doesn't say anything. He must be first in battle on the shelf. And that makes the bill and we invite you to vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u280	Thank you. There is now a reason for Mrs Brysidou Friday from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today everyone's eyes are on the islands, on the people of Evros, who, together with the superhuman work carried out by the Armed Forces and by the Greek Police, also give their struggle to an unprecedented effort and to a problem that, for the first time, is facing our country. This is a very difficult struggle because it wants a special management, and you all understand it. Our neighbouring country is threatening to put ahead people, putting forward and pushing refugees and immigrants, creating a huge problem and a huge dead end. I also call on all Members of Parliament to stand by and fight the Prime Minister who is giving today, because the route is very difficult and no one can deny that the choices and efforts have so far been positive. It was in the right direction, pushed towards all Europe's forces in favour and step - it forms a climate to tackle this deadlock. I think our country has not been through this before. We have always had problems and difficulties from the neighbouring country, but today things are completely different and responsibly all of us must deal with the situation. The Members who are here today in Parliament above all are representatives of the citizens, and we need to know that here in our positions we must express the citizens, and I think no one disputes today that all Greeks united in want resistance to what is done and want results. So we too need to speak and be placed and essentially support to have a good effect. The criticism and something could be done better or that there are deficits is not in the right direction, in my view. Today we also have a very important bill concerning agricultural cooperatives and, more generally, it gives messages about the primary sector. It is very important to me, because our country many decades ago but also constantly has overcome economic deadlocks and difficulties, emphasising and relying on the primary sector. So now is the great opportunity to support, combat unemployment and give growth to our region, especially in areas such as my own - I come from Kozani - which has enormous difficulties and experience the post-German period and has dispossessed the agricultural sector and it should be supported. The agricultural sector can give us a lot, as long as we invest in it with infrastructure projects, with irrigation and dams that ensure adequate water and cheap costs for crops. But it also wants another organization, because the years have changed. The crops cannot be at the rate they used to be. There is climate change and care and environmental protection is required by all sectors, even in the agricultural and livestock sectors. There is'smart' agriculture with machinery and technologies which can at cheap cost produce good products, which will also be organic products. There are machinery, which ensures great production by exploiting the advantages of our country, which are the sun, the land, the water. But all this cannot be done individually by farmers. We need to move on to cooperative schemes. We must have cooperatives, but healthy and sustainable. We are not talking about the cooperatives that today, if we add up their debts, are worth 2.5 billion. We are not talking about cooperatives, which were unable to heal and were unable to work with the proposals of the previous government. Because if there were ideas - proposals in the right direction around cooperatives, we would not have cooperatives that are inactive, we would not have a cooperative with so few members, we would not have cooperatives with debts that are not viable. We'd have something different. So we need to see what is to blame and give a start in this area, which really will help us multiplely in our country. So this draft law brings new proposals. It gives freedom to the people who collaborate in drafting their statutes in the way they consider to be more functional. It facilitates cooperative schemes by reducing the tax to 10% and does not tax the surplus. So it's an important facilitator and the investor comes in. And that is very important, because the years are really different. Products to be marketed want another process. The farmer will not be the afflicted man, who will always work and when time is over, his income will be minimal. He really should be able to sell his products. It should actually be profitable. And this must also be done with the help of the investor involved in the cooperative scheme, who will put money, has reason and he will also try to benefit all members in the cooperative. Finally, there have been deadlocks in the cooperative groups. For some reasons they were not viable and, without having done anything negative, simply could not respond to their tax and insurance contributions, they were led to dead ends. They were criminally sentenced, the president, the vice president, the members of the Board and even lost their properties. This comes to an end this bill, allowing for five plus one years not to become all these paths until the liquidation is completed and people who were not, simply were not viable, not to be found in great deadlocks. I think with this bill the Ministry of Rural Development is giving the message that we are supporting farmers. Farmers are the big capital of our country. In many areas, support is needed. I think that this is the beginning and we will have a lot of steps both with the ELGA compensation and with all the hopes and desires. This is the first step. We wait, Minister, and the next steps, because our country will really go forward if we support the primary sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u282	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and two teachers attending the 7th Xanthi High School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now Mr Kavadas Athanasios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days homeland has been forced to devote all its powers to defending the security and inviolability of our borders. It is such that the criticality of the moments, due to Turkish provocativeness, which the Prime Minister himself and European officials have today found in Acritical Evros. The work of Parliament cannot, of course, be stopped. But it is accomplished with the mind and heart of the Armed Forces and the Security Body, which are at the forefront and are strong in defending the borders of our country from Evros to Megisti. With their courage and generosity, they make us proud, and we owe them a great thank you. And we're going to the bill. With today's bill we are implementing another key commitment, as we had made in our election programme. Under the provisions for agricultural cooperatives, the New Democracy Government has supported cooperative schemes, an institution which since 1915 has been on the side of the farmer and has attempted a crucial intervention, which is considered absolutely mature and a demand for the rural world. The work was not easy, because our rural cooperatives have been in an institutional and economic crisis for decades. Today of the four thousand five hundred two rural cooperatives only eight hundred nineteen are in operation, four hundred have a turnover of less than EUR 50,000 and only ten to fifteen are competitive. In the European Union, the average number of farmers in cooperatives is 40%, but in our country it is not even 5%. Do these cooperatives want to be weak, with no prospects and future? Are there some who want to continue this situation of decline and shrinking cooperatives, insisting that the agricultural sector should be maintained by European funds and subsidies and supported by the state, ignoring the growing international competition? Legislation such as these led agricultural cooperatives to an economic collapse, social question and endless problems. In this full of challenges, SYRIZA's previous law, n.4384/2016, not only failed to provide solutions, but instead worsened the situation, because rural development requires both will and strategy and plan, which unfortunately did not exist in 2016. But today, ladies and gentlemen, there are. In the New Democracy, we believe that, despite the difficulties that exist, we can quantitatively and qualitatively improve production, reduce our dependence on imports and increase the population employed in the rural economy. Some of the innovations of the new law are the provision for participation in the boards of private investors as members with the right to vote, but these votes do not exceed 35% of all members' votes, the entry of individuals into the scheme that will decide by a 2/3 majority. The possibility of financing from cooperatives up to EUR 25 000 in total for each member is available. Cooperatives will be established and operated by decision of the supervisory authority and not by a judicial decision, as has been done so far. This means flexible procedures and a reduction in financial burdens for farmers partners. They reduce the individuals needed to recommend a cooperative from twenty to ten or less. The minimum amount required for participation in the cooperative capital is set at EUR 10,000. The minimum rate of production to be delivered by each member to the agricultural cooperative is set at 75%. There is also provision for the possibility of setting up a special reserve from the non-taxable surpluses. Any distributed profits are taxed as dividends with 5% rather than 10%, as it was. Finally, it is planned to set up a national coordination organisation entitled 'National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives', which was a long-standing request from farmers. And all of this is institutionalised by promoting and fully respecting the freedom and voluntary participation of farmers, democratic organisation and function, without restrictions or exclusion and the economic viability achieved through competitive entrepreneurship. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I finish, I should like to refer to a very serious problem facing Lefkada in recent years with unconscious animals. In particular, in the mountainous areas of my prefecture, we have many uncontrolled cattle, circulating uncontrollably, entering the yards, destroying crops, preventing traffic, threatening residents' property and physical integrity. Life is at stake, Minister, and property is dispersed, and whole areas with trees, with vineyards, seeds, horticulture, three thousand to four thousand acres every year, which for the people in the mountains are all their livelihood and income. Suspective drivers return night to their homes from their jobs and, if they escape the accident, they may be forced to wait hours to get the animal off the road. This is no longer the case! People are indignant, afraid, going to the fields and homes without knowing what to find. Minister, I would first like to congratulate you on this bill - a cut that you have made and brought to Parliament in very short time. I would like, however, after our meeting with the Ministry, to ask you to bring the legislation we have discussed on stunning, so as to facilitate the arrest and recovery of unconscious productive animals and to resolve this chronic problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. Four years, Minister, we are fighting to solve this problem without result. The mountainous Lefkada and I will personally thank you if you put your seal on this regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that agricultural cooperatives are essential to the creation of economies of scale in the agricultural sector. The draft law supports procedures that will increase the participation of farmers. It enables them to operate in a favourable tax framework, to attract private capital, to develop commercial activities in terms of modern marketing. Agricultural cooperatives want to be a worthwhile, reliable and effective tool, which will, in turn, help to restructure the country's productive model, to shield agriculture and livestock and to maintain and broaden our competitive advantages. With this great reform effort, agricultural cooperatives are exempted from the burdens which for decades prevented them from competing and open up new horizons and prospects for our farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u284	Mr Dionysios Apipe from the New Democracy has the floor. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u285	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me to refer a little to the current situation, but not the same way. And I would say to Mr Bored to say that it is not from non paper, which I shall say. So I will recall that, when Clinton came to Greece, you set up a hanger in Propylaea. I don't know if you remember. And then a former Minister and former MP made you the judge and Clinton hang him. But then you remembered and accepted Obama, you went to the United States and you met Trump. And I'd say you guys were doing well, even with a few of your bardams. You also once called 'EEC and NATO the same union'. NATO has come to the Aegean with your own exhortations and now you tell us that we need to internationalise the issue and take it to Europe as well. But Europe is here, and the issue has already been globalised. I would say that she is enviable in politics! You have told us cowards - cowardly that the borders are now guarded.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u286	I'll show a picture we have here that was under such a banner.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u287	Paul, you weren't there then, so now you don't have to justify the whole story. Then it was 3%. You were in another phase.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u288	You cried once!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u289	So let us now go talk about the issue we are here today, the agricultural cooperative bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government, faithful to its election commitments, today brings before the Greek Parliament a bill that changes the landscape in the organisation and functioning of agricultural cooperatives. It therefore welcomes the consistent request by cooperative farmers for a radical reform of the regulatory framework for agricultural cooperatives, which will encourage their development and make them sustainable. The increase in farmers' incomes, the simultaneous increase in the competitiveness of Greek agriculture, and the increase in the number of farmers in primary production are a strategic target for the New Democracy Government, which we are proving in practice, since we are implementing one in our election commitments. And let us be honest, that is precisely why opposition is even making criticism in this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, for four and a half years you have said that you are serving the Greek people. But eventually, during your administration, you do absolutely nothing. And even today you are criticising sterilely, without giving or proposing substantial solutions. You are putting in place real problems, but without presenting any operational and substantial solutions. Contrary to the political inertia you are showing, the current government has an action plan and even applies it at a rapid pace. So our strategy involves strengthening Greek producers, increasing products of added value and reducing production costs and their taxation. And with this draft law we are implementing this very strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, in an open and free market, proper tools are needed in order to survive, evolve and eventually perpetuate. This draft makes it possible for agricultural cooperatives to make use of the attractiveness of private capital to face up to the competition on the market. After all, there is no doubt that more and more private capital is now being put into agricultural production. It is therefore inconceivable that these people do not have the proper tools, the appropriate weapons, so that they can stand on their feet and survive in the competitive environment of the modern market. It is no coincidence that this draft law provides for the possibility of private investors taking part in the board of agricultural cooperatives up to 35%. This regulation seeks to strengthen the position of cooperatives against competition, since, from now on, the introduction of increased capital will be permitted for agricultural cooperatives to stand alongside the major players of the Greek market. Moreover, on the basis of the provisions of the draft law we have in our hands, we will have increased opportunities for members of agricultural cooperatives. Thus, through the provisions of the Statute, which the members themselves will define, they will have an appropriate framework for the operation of the agricultural cooperative as a private and autonomous undertaking, which will have access to all business activities which do not adversely affect its agricultural character. At the same time, the process of establishing an agricultural cooperative is simplified, as the interested parties will be able to submit an administrative act issued by the relevant Ministry and not by a judicial decision, as the law so far provided for. They shall also be reduced to at least 10 persons, from 20 who have so far been in existence, to sign the relevant statutes for the establishment of an agricultural cooperative, and to establish an agricultural cooperative with fewer persons, if special conditions exist. Furthermore, on the basis of the present provisions, the tax regime governing the operation of agricultural cooperatives is redefined. So the surpluses created by the agricultural cooperative are not taxed. The profits distributed to members are taxed as dividends. The goodwill resulting from the valuation of the assets in the transformation of the agricultural cooperative is exempted from any tax, and there is a tax exemption in the event of a relocation to the livestock offices. Finally, as far as the Ghost Cooperatives are concerned, the register of cooperatives, which now includes too many cooperatives, has already been ordered. Ladies and gentlemen, opposition is reacting, because with this draft law we give agricultural cooperatives the freedom to operate autonomously and freely, based on the principles and rules of the international market. It is well known that the Left with its policy sought to control and manipulate agricultural cooperatives. Instead, we are creating a framework that makes them functional, competitive and sustainable so that they develop and progress. In conclusion, we would say that it is well known that agricultural cooperatives play a very important role in the development of primary production and by extension of the rural economy. It is therefore an interest in the entire Greek economy to have active, functional and strong agricultural cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u290	Thank you for keeping time, Mr President. Mr Baraliacos Xenophon has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this draft law by the Ministry of Rural Development reflects the positive result of a lasting live and fruitful dialogue between our farmers and the political leadership on the question of the proper functioning of agricultural cooperatives. Agricultural cooperatives under the various forms they have taken in time are deeply rooted in Greek society and rural life, having occasionally demonstrated significant results and remarkable achievements. However, despite their consistent, time-consuming and consistent reference to the primary sector, in recent years, with the exception of bright exceptions, they have not had the leading and decisive role that has suited them, failing to meet the new framework established by modern agricultural requirements and the infiltration of business into the global agricultural map. In my country, Pieria, for example, there are agricultural cooperatives that innovate and innovate others who are still trying to find their footprint. This bill will give the firsts greater impetus and will make the seconds more competitive. It's the head office for the qualitative leap of the primary sector. The law brought by the previous government, the SYRIZA government, not only, has not solved any problems affecting agricultural cooperatives, but has further deepened the institutional and economic turmoil in which they have stumbled. Instead of removing obstacles, he additionally created. It is characteristic that of the four thousand five hundred two existing agricultural cooperatives, registered in operation in the National Register of Agricultural Cooperatives and other collective bodies, are only eight hundred ten nineteen. This draft law radically reshapes the institutional framework governing agricultural cooperatives. It enhances their role. It provides more opportunities for their actions, but mainly creates those favourable conditions for their transition to a new era. In competitive conditions in a global environment of interconnected markets, rural cooperatives, in order to play a leading role, are reformed. The proposed provisions of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, fundamentally regulate the legal framework of agricultural cooperatives, restrict state intervention, simplify and accelerate the administrative procedure, provide tax incentives and satisfy a consistent request from our country's rural world for many years. A legal person under private non-profit law, entitled ‘National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives’, is hereby established, which will be the national coordinating organisation of agricultural cooperatives and is responsible for their action and operation. The reform section, however, which seals the character of this bill is the transformation of agricultural cooperatives into modern, competitive, extroverting businesses, with high profitability. It makes it clear that agricultural cooperatives have a legal form and a commercial status, but without altering their character as an institution of the rural economy. A dual purpose is thus achieved. On the one hand, the timely question of the financing and financial support of agricultural cooperatives which made them inactive and, on the other, in order to prevent their nature being alienated as agricultural enterprises is resolved. It is foreseen that investors who have the right to vote may not exceed 35% of the total number of votes cast by the members of the agricultural cooperative. In simple terms, the cooperatives are equipped with all the advantages of a business unit, without hindrance to their mission and purpose, for the benefit of the members who make up them. In addition, the institution of the cooperative is strengthened, as, in addition to simplifying the establishment process, the number of more than one members to establish the cooperative by signing the statutes is at least 10, from twenty to the present, and in specific cases it may also be less than that. The challenges that our farmers have to face in the near future are many and are becoming even more complex in view of the climate change already taking place. The active population currently working in our country in the primary sector is over 11%. In many cases, however, this work is done inconsistently and without planning. The aim of the Greek rural economy to produce high-quality products at the least cost, in order to make these products attractive and competitive against others, is a one-way road. Our farmers must take advantage of the improved and upgraded framework of this draft law, i.e. create co-operational patterns and structures, in order to promote their products on large foreign markets, while at the same time feeling a security through the cooperation they achieve. Greek farmers are, over time, a firm point of reference for the Greek economy and the Greek society. They are the people who are lurking every day, with many adversities. They are bound to the Greek land. They love land they cultivate. The patriotism of the Greek farmers is undeniable. They have proved it in the path of history and these days prove it again, after they rushed to stand in every way by the Greek Army and the Security Bodies, who fight at our borders. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Ministry of Rural Development and Mr Voridis personally, along with the Deputy Ministers Skreka and Mr Arabatzis and all partners, have promoted reforms, proposals and solutions to the upgrading of the agricultural holdings and the competition of Greek products on our land. Our farmers recognize the work of the Ministry and participate creatively in the reforms being promoted. Ladies and gentlemen, after many years, our farmers have not taken their tractors off the road this year, they have not gone through massive and dynamic mobilisations. Why didn't they do that? They did not, because they acknowledge that they have a reliable and honest interlocutor against them. This also confirmed the ever-increasing involvement of enterprises and farmers in the recent Agrotica, the largest day in the world. In conclusion, I would like to point out that this bill empowers Greek farmers with even more tools to become dynamically integrated into the rural business process and to make full use of the advantages of the blessed Greek land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u292	Thank you. Mr Boutsikakis Christoforos - Emmanuel from New Democracy now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the Security Body, the Armed Forces, the Port Authority and all the citizens, the locusts, who are fighting every day to keep our country's borders protected. And protect them with complete success. Our country's borders are unaccountable and will remain that way. Turkey is completely ignoring International Law, overcoming any limits - illegal drilling in the eastern Mediterranean, illegally agreed with Libya, provoking invasion in Syria - and now uses immigrants as a lever for pressure on Greece and the European Union. Turkey's propaganda has no limit. Today, for example, Turkey's Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Tsavosoglu, claimed that the Greeks were supposed to kill refugees at the border. Here, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an orderly falsification of the truth, an orderly plan for the country, the Hellenic Republic, which has shown - and above all - its sensitivity and humanity. For example, yesterday from Evros where eighty-nine citizens were arrested, the three of them were Syrian citizens. So who are we talking about? The Turks have received a lot of money from the European Union. However, they continue to blackmail. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not blackmailing. Greece is not blackmailing. Europe is not blackmailing. Our homeland can't accept any more illegal entrances. We have no responsibility for the situation in Syria and we will not suffer the consequences of the decisions taken by others. We call on the European Union and NATO to take action and to upgrade border guarding to the highest degree. Greece's borders are also Europe's external borders. We're strengthening our alliances. For the first time we have succeeded and brought the entire leadership of the European Union to our borders. Today they were all there, along with Kyriakos Mitsotakis, our Prime Minister, at Evros. The message to Turkey is clear. As the Chancellor of Austria said, Turkey's decision to open the borders is tantamount to attacking Greece, attacking Europe. The Turks are not treated with wishes. The European Union can no longer tolerate this situation, and we must all work in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a time for disagreements and micro-partyism. The largest weapon of the Greeks is national unity. We need a common sense and a common approach to the problem that hits our door every day. Xerxes from Easter once said to Diaratos: "I will come to take Greece on a walk." He answered: "Beware, my king, because the Greeks are separated, but when the stranger comes, it is a hand tied." Ladies and gentlemen, I come to today's bill. Agricultural cooperatives are in a deep crisis, both economic and institutional. Today there are four and a half thousand cooperatives. Of these, a hundred twelve are in a liquidation process, which is perpetuated without ever completing. More than two thousand are inertial. Just eight hundred are in operation. The SYRIZA Act of 2016 solved no problems. Instead, he raised it, because it was a law with reasonable SYRIZA: bureaucracy, complex procedures, unnecessary obligations. From now on, the establishment and management of an agricultural cooperative will be much easier. Instead of 20 faces, it's gonna be less than ten. The cooperatives will be established by an administrative act rather than a judicial decision. So we speed up the procedures. That's how we cut costs. The members of rural cooperatives must have increased freedom, be able to shape the framework they consider appropriate. Agricultural cooperatives, however, face another major problem, that of funding. Without money they cannot face competition and other businesses, even if their prices are lower, even if they have better products. We believe in private initiative, whether individual or collective. That is why we are allowing investors' cooperatives to participate with the right to vote in order to develop cooperatives on sound and solid bases to develop into large and profitable businesses. We provide significant tax incentives, such as tax exemption on surpluses. The time has come for agricultural cooperatives to be able to operate in accordance with market rules. Today we offer the Greek farmer the prospect of a better life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u294	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs. Tyloridou Olympia has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the borders are well guarded. And they were always guarded. Of course, I would remind you in July that you said that the refugee will be finished in a week and you received eighty border guards from Evros who were guarding the border to bring them to Exarchia. To guard the border of the Exarchates? So you're actually coming. But we will not do what you have done as opposition. Of course you've got the habit left. You ignore that you are government and continue to oppose opposition. We will support the national effort that will come from consultation, because it is indeed a very critical geopolitical threat from Turkey's side and a brutal blackmail. From our lips you will not hear that we trust Mr Erdogan more than the Prime Minister of the country. To remind you of earlier your statements. The government must demand substantial support from the European Union and not communication. Obviously it is good that the Prime Minister with high European officials today was at the border. But is it a diplomatic success for European officials to simply congratulate our country without any condemnation of Turkey? It is a diplomatic success, when German Interior Minister Zehofer says: "There is a great deal of work being done by the Greek Government, but we cannot participate in the distribution of refugees." Is that Community solidarity? Is it a diplomatic success, when the Austrian Foreign Minister says today: 'Will we support FRONTEX financially, but can we not participate in the distribution of refugees and the treatment of refugees'? And please tell me: is it a diplomatic success after our Prime Minister's recent visit to Washington, Washington, today's statement by the United States Special Representative in Syria to provide military material to Turkey? Is it a diplomatic success, when today's statement by the US Ambassador to Turkey is made by Mr Sutterfield? So successful foreign policy we haven't seen in years! So we call on the Greek Government, together, all the responsible political forces of the place to co-decide on a project that has a national line for a truly serious problem, which cannot be dealt with by any political force alone, because it is a problem with international implications. And now I come to the bill. The Minister said our difference is ideological. Obviously, our difference is ideological. Alas, if it wasn't. But I would expect the Minister to be more honest and to say clearly to farmers, farmers and our fishermen that the philosophy of the creation of cooperatives has no place in today's government's ideology. It would be more honest to say that these sorts of collective structures are contrary to the logic of the operation of the pure market. So you come and bring a bill that offends the history of the cooperative movement - despite its mistakes and its problems - and beats the heart of his philosophy. You are using this bill as a courier, which will guide the concept of the social economy and let me say that it leaves very serious suspicions that it will lead to the passing of the cooperatives' property into private hands. Unfortunately, in this place, these tricks are old. It's an old trick to take from the many to give them to the few. We believe that the cooperative movement must be at the core of rural development, which is happening throughout Europe. Here in Greece, of course, it is true that, despite the fact that we were pioneers, as we had the first creation of a cooperative in our country, we had many problems, because there were no good practices. Corruption phenomena, lack of professionalism, mismanagement, problematic party interventions, clienteleships led to a crisis and a disgrace. And, while cooperatives are the powerful instrument for developing agricultural production throughout Europe, we have had too many debts and too much mismanagement. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I should like to end - and I shall end in a minute, Mr President - the role of cooperatives must be clear and distinct, as the public, private and social sectors in the economies are. Cooperatives cannot move with institutional uncertainty and the bill must provide clear rules that respect philosophy, the seven agreed international cooperative principles, equal and voluntary, free participation and do not transform cooperative into a private limited company. This is a different model of economic development, which individuals cannot, especially with this very large percentage, take decisions, approval or rejection, and in fact blackmail the cooperative movement and I am very afraid at the end of the day they will put their hands and property. It reminds me of your bill - let me have the popular expression -'stick dogs salt and gratifyingly don't.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u296	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Katsaniotis Andreas from New Democracy
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for the wrong order, because I cannot stand, I cannot be tempted to say that two days ago, the SYRIZA Youth said that there were no borders. Then the Prime Minister comes in and discovers that the borders should be well guarded. And that's a serious policy!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u298	You're talking about Alex now, right, saying, "The Prime Minister is coming..."?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u299	The former Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u300	You're confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u301	As Prime Minister, he didn't do a good job...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u302	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u303	...but I've seen him in the last few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u304	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u305	When the CSCE met, Alexis was a jellyfish! The SYRIZA Youth spoke "no lords". [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The country was invaded. Because invasion is when immigrants at your border try to enter illegally. The country was also attacked in those days, a take-news attack from Turkish propaganda, and we saw a lot of people reproducing what Turkish propaganda was saying. So be careful when we talk about borders, careful when we talk about immigrants. We were here in our previous term. So no lords is done, forget it. Right now, the country is a country, it's not a place. And let's say one more thing. The country must remain a state that respects human rights. Before doing so, however, to respect human rights, it must remain a state. We cannot yield to the tooling of immigration. The government of Mr. Mitsotakis did what he had to do right away. What happened today was a huge success, which is underestimated. The leadership of the European institutions was in Evros, he saw what is going on there first and, instead of saying a good word, you expect to find problems. Well, yes, the European Union is slowing down. And a little reminder of the past? With an idealism, anyone who was talking at that time against the entry of immigrants, what did you say? That he's racist, fascist, easily. This terrorism that you ideologically exercised then is over. The country cannot afford illegal immigrants, the country cannot become an endless Amydaleza. You have closed the Amygdaleza, and in fact you have accepted to become a huge Amygdaleza. This must not be done and will not be allowed by this government. I'm entering the bill on cooperatives. Most of them have been said. I would like to stand on one or two points, Minister. The first point - which I do not consider to be ideological - is that private entrepreneurs should be able to participate, with the agreement of the partners, namely those who actually produce it. We can't think of this as crazy, something sidelined.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u306	Tell the Kalavrita.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u307	I will say it in Kalavrita, Mr. Colleague, and I will say it in Agios, because I have the luck of coming from an area where the Panayialios Cooperative Association keeps the raisin and the Cooperative of the Kalavryta keeps the farmers. They have no objections, and no objections should be raised. Can I tell you something? Greece and Greek farmers have many problems. But their main problem is not so much the small lot or how we go to the large production networks. Their main problem is the cost of production. The Greek farmer has the highest cost of production in the European Union, which is why we support cooperatives. We support them so that we can support the Greek farmers. They must also help in this direction, and a number of cooperatives do that. They must help to investigate, which many cooperatives do, those who "walk". And they should also find help, wherever needed, by individuals. What's wrong with that? Here we privatise ports and it's all right, here we give percentages to services, which you gave, as in PPC, and now you don't mind at all, but you're bothering if a private person enters a cooperative. I really don't get it. I know, you've changed too much. In closing, I'd like to say one thing. I understand that SYRIZA is trying to balance between the 3%, which was the no-boarders, and social democracy. Thank God so much that Mr. Tsipras finally came to the right side of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u308	Thank you for keeping time. Minister, do you want the floor for a minute to put forward legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u309	Yes, Mr President, I do not know whether you would also like me to place myself on the parliamentary amendments so that the rapporteurs know what my position is. With your permission, then, I will do so, just one minute time can be relatively restrictive.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u310	I'll give you three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u311	I am therefore tabling legislative improvements. All legislative improvements are completely technical and verbal corrections, except for two points. I am making a change, and I accept a critical point made by my colleague, Mr Loading, which in fact allows me to limit the co-operative capital to EUR 5 000 instead of to EUR 10 000, in some cases he has said, for island small cooperatives, etc. And the second, which is essential, from the legal...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u312	Without a change in the number of members?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u313	As far as the limit of membership is concerned, it was foreseen that I have the possibility again, that is to say, of allowing the Minister to be restricted by a reasoned decision, again in the case of small cooperatives, etc. This possibility had not been given to capital. There is now the possibility of limiting the capital as well. And the second which I am changing and which is essential is this: we have put a vote per million turnover and changed that, and it becomes a vote per two million turnover and with the cap - with all the walls - that exist. It just changes from 1,000,000 to 2,000,000. There in the National Association of Agricultural Cooperatives we put that every 1 million is a vote with a limit upwards. The 1,000 000 are made to 2,000,000, there is one thing to say, after a number of debates and comments we have received.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u314	I would like to inform you that we will probably be tabling the one amendment, which was finally adopted - and I informed you about it in committee - on the inactive agricultural cooperatives which enable them to submit certain statements, in particular of a tax nature, with a reduction in fines, in order to bring them to a solution and liquidation. I told you about her on the committee. It is also an amendment for which I had not informed you in committee, but which is also technical. That is, in fact, given some deadlines for issues relating to real estate concessions to main-professional farmers or unemployed, on the basis of regional decisions, on the basis of the provisions of Law 4061/2012. These are the specific topics from some ponds that need to be processed in a special way. And there's always a concession made. He has to work. The agency is not yet ready to do the work that needs to be done. So we're going to make a small extension to that. These are the amendments which are to be tabled. I told you about the law school. As far as the legislative amendments are concerned, let me turn to them very briefly. An amendment, which comes from the Change Movement, Mr Pana, for which we have discussed, I am unreserved. I can't accept it. I don't have that possibility. The amendment concerns a reduction in the number of forest cooperatives. If you ask my personal opinion, I'm part of it. I just don't have the option of accepting it. The amendment tabled by SYRIZA to enable the liquidator of immovable agricultural cooperatives, in my opinion, is unnecessary in the sense that it is possible, within the general mandates of the clearer, to make administrative acts within the limits and requirements of the liquidation. So that's unnecessary. It can complicate things here in the sense that while we must aim for rapid liquidation, the leases may lead to a slowdown in liquidation. So I reject this amendment. On the JRC, there is an amendment on the insurance rights of workers in agricultural cooperative organisations. I'm irresponsible. It's a matter of the Ministry of Labour.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u315	Co-operate. Mr. Brutsi has accepted it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u316	Yeah, I can't accept it. You need to find Mr. Brutsi. The same applies to the amendment tabled by the JRC on the question of land use in the region of Lower Soulie Marathon. This is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment. I can't make a marker in the sense of competence. I don't actually get into her stuff. Likewise, I am irresponsible, as I have said, for the clearing matters, because in my opinion it requires special regulation, but it will be taken into account by the Ministry of Justice, since it is regulated by the ranking of workers. But I retain this in the sense that after due consultation, because a new draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development is due to come under various provisions, which will come in the next few days, I will examine it and see whether it can be put or not. The same applies to an amendment tabled by Mr Kegeroglu. It is a special issue, which concerns agricultural lots in Kastelli. This is a matter that needs more study and work. He's in custody. It is now rejected, but - let us say - not with objection to the substance, but with a view to further processing. With regard to an amendment which does not appear in the plenary - Mr Karasmanis referred to it - and which was tabled to the committee, if any, because I was not in committee because it was tabled at the last minute, it was considered to have been rejected. I'm explaining to watch the conversation. The subject of the amendment is that it is called upon to exist in areas affected and declared in an emergency - that is what it says - the possibility of offsetting ELGA contributions. The argument is that a proportion is made of the insurance contributions for pensions, for example. First, that ratio is incorrect. Pension insurance contributions relate to an insurance right that is done in the future and may be extended for payment. The ratio is therefore not correct, an insurance contribution for pensions with an insurance contribution for indemnity. It's not right. The insurance contribution for the allowances is annual. It must be paid every year in order to create an insurance right. If no insurance contribution is paid, there is no insurance right. This is a regulation, as it is put forward, which, even for this exceptional reason, would lead to the possibility of offsetting debts of insurance contributions by compensation and, in fact, would be contrary to the basic objective of insurance. The main purpose of the insurance here is that the premiums must be paid in order to pay the premium if the loss-making risk occurs. If we end up offsetting the premium by the injurious risk, then in fact, no one will ever pay anything. Everyone will expect when they will be at risk, so that they can offset the premium. So the arrangement can't be done. It could be done very briefly for this time, because there is a specificity in the ELGA premium, which is the following: While this is to be paid in March, together with the IACC declarations, the period from 1 January to March that the premium is payable is considered to be covered, even if the premium is not paid. This three-month period - I should like to say this - where there is insurance cover and the loss-making event arises, for example, in February, but without the premium being paid, which is covered, because it has not become a requirement, then it could be considered that this short period is offset. For this matter, I will see a little bit of the ELGA regulation. I'm not taking her now. I mention her to know what we're talking about. We're talking about this. We're not talking about anything more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u317	Mrs Karasarlidou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u318	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a new draft law on cooperatives. But one question arises: Does the government want there to be cooperatives in Greece? If so, what synergies exactly does he want? Because, to date, the arguments we have heard have neither convinced us of the necessity of this bill nor of your good intentions. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to have a genuine and honest debate on cooperatives, I believe that we should first of all respond to this: why is this situation today in cooperatives? Secondly, why from the whole agricultural world in Greece, almost only 10% of Greek farmers, unlike European countries, are in cooperatives and while in European countries the participation rates reach 70%, 80% to 90% and although the majority of Greek farmers have small lots and thus their cooperative is manyly necessary, compared to their European colleagues? I therefore believe that, from our answer to these questions, the measures to solve the problems facing cooperatives will also be put in place. I personally believe that there are two main reasons why they have shaped the current situation. The first reason is the deception in the collective consciousness of farmers of the concept of cooperative. For the cooperatives were identified with corruption, the acquisition of conscience, the construction of the party armies. Because the cooperatives were financially burdened with unutilized and useful investments, just to get some of their misery. Of course, there was also the division in the cooperative space, which at first became thanks to party control, and that continued because it served financially personal benefits. The break-up in cooperatives and the rural movement, however, began by the New Democracy party, colleagues. Where there were progressive forces and they had the majority, the New Democracy's party left to set up its own right-wing neo-democratic cooperatives and rural clubs, such as the well-known Confederacy, the SADC. I insist on the issue of division, because it is precisely because I think that today is a great disease for the cooperative area and for the whole of the rural world, and precisely because it is going on today. However, more damage has been done since our country joined the European Union, with the opaque party management of real European funds, because there has been no control structure for their management. In my place, in Imathia, we experienced this with the surpluses of withdrawal. It was the main factor that three powerful trading export centres of Imathia, the NSAs, the associations of agricultural cooperatives and Veroia and Alexandria, and the fruiting of Naoussa, which supplied peaches with the market in Central Europe, abandoned their export activity because of the surpluses of withdrawal and three commercially powerful export centres became thirteen and the next tone reached forty-three.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u320	And what happened? European markets have been lost, the associations have been bankrupt, and today, because of this division, no serious contract with a European market can be closed. Of course, following the imposition of the embargo on Russia by the European Union, in fact, we are at a dead end and have the well-known results. I think, Minister, you have recently gone up to Imathia and you are aware. We have a collapse of prices, an abandonment of agricultural land and a bankruptcy of, of course, of, peach producers. Now those responsible for all these situations have remained unpunished - almost always has happened - and, of course, debts have been owed to cooperatives. What for? For political purposes. Members of the New Democracy, Minister, SYRIZA's government for cooperatives in the previous period had institutionalised the supervision of cooperatives by the public. Why are you abolishing it? Tell us why you're abolishing it? Do you want there to continue to be immunity? Why do you abolish the limitation of plantations serving the non-creation of establishments and gave young farmers room for them to run too? You are also abolishing the ethical principle in force even in civil companies of all forms, that it is a incompatible shareholder to be a competitor or to reverse the company's interests. You shall abolish the basic cooperative principle "each one vote member". [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Mr. President, if you're kind, I'm gonna need two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u321	But you have one more minute!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u322	Thank you. You are also abrogating our own proposal for the school of cooperatives and, of course, for the elections to the cooperatives you are introducing the majority system. But with such policies, the cooperative idea of Greek farmers and Greek society has been discredited. But I must admit that the SYRIZA government too, despite the positive measures it has tried and taken, was unable to reverse the farmers' leakage from the cooperatives. And he couldn't prevent her for two reasons. The first is that the depreciation of cooperatives in farmers' conscience could not, of course, be overcome within two or three years. The second is that, despite the financial incentives granted to farmers under the new tax system, that is to say, duty-free up to EUR 9 000, duty-free for allowances and subsidies up to EUR 12 000, the taxation of cooperatives with 10%, the reduction of insurance contributions and the Farmer's Card have proved to be too little to compensate for the many benefits that the black market gives them, which at least in fruit and vegetables exceeds 50% and results in the collapse of European markets, which could pay dearly our agricultural products, which everyone agrees have comparative advantages, creates unfair competition for those who sell legitimately with invoices, deprives the Greek State of very important revenues and, of course, causes the collapse of the cooperatives, even of these few healthy ones that have left behind. That is why we have just announced the possibility by the end of the memoranda of reducing the tax rate to 50% for cooperative farmers, Mr Minister, and that is why you have not told us whether you will do something to make the cooperatives attractive by abolishing the trade fee, financing farmers and cooperatives and the possibility of producing cheap energy through the bill on energy communities. Colleagues, even if this bill was in a positive direction, it alone could not work in favour of the reconstruction and entrepreneurship of cooperatives. This could be done if it were integrated into a more general strategic development plan, such as logistics, freight centres, road axes, the Egnatia railway, which was planned and you don't tell us if...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u323	My colleague, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u324	I'll be done, in a minute, in a few seconds. It is also a bill that finds vertically opposed to almost all institutional partners. For all these reasons, we doubt your intentions and we fear that your objective is by entering private individuals the great real estate of cooperatives, which is the property of many generations of farmers, to pass in this unpleasant way in the hands of individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u325	Mr Paulakis Paulis has the floor now by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with the big theme of the days. What you have said, and what you have clearly opposed, unfortunately - not for you but for the country - you like them. And we don't look like you making this toxic opposition that you made both in the refugee and Macedonian and in Matti. This morning I was on another committee, and a Member of Parliament flew to you for the Eye. I remembered, then, that the "VAN", this urban non-profit corporation, which was built in strings and organs in July, had done this work for seven months. They're about to break it down, they're thinking of people leaving, because they're with a head that doesn't have legs. You were talking about northern Macedonia. Can you imagine now in this misery, in this aggression by the Turks, that the issue had not been resolved and that we had the Turkish planes in the North Macedonian airspace?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u327	You're welcome, Mr. Chrysop. Mr. Polakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u328	Let's go to the refugee. SYRIZA brought them, didn't he? Now that you've been out of here, why did this maniac happen these months? We have been telling you for a long time that your policy of caging in the islands to send out a message that it is being abused here - that some people are repeating it again - so that they don't come, it won't pay off. And where we handed you a Moria with five and a half thousand, you reached it twenty-five thousand and almost made it civil on the islands. Because you went to impose the closed detention centres on the islands only to make a district commander and five mayors sad instead of eleven district rulers and a hundred 50 mayors sad. Because that's what you did. What happened the other day is another thing, and that's why we're keeping the attitude we're holding. But a little modest in the expressions, because you take the defeat and the laptop you ate the last days on the islands to turn them around, cultivating nationalism and a new '21 and a new '40 of some nazi sites that I see and come out on the Internet. Erdogan's lost Idlib, he's dead, he's got a big problem, a very big internal problem. ‘ORUC REIS’ Secondly, he wants to blackmail and he does this with the ORUC REIS - the weather took it and he came into our exclusive economic zone, right? - He wants to blackmail to get a wedge into the exploration of the staircases. And yes, he's behind this move of those miserable people at the border. And it's obvious they have to shut down, as they closed in 2015, which spent eight hundred and fifty thousand but not from there, on SYRIZA, they closed without lightning. Of course, a little modest with 'invasion' because 'invasion' means war and when you have war, you don't have the Turkish ambassador here, you're kicking him out. You demand convergences from the European Union summit on sanctions. And tell me something, it's good they came. It's a good conclusion, and what is it? Is there any condemnation of Turkey for that? Is there any specific ratification of Turkey for what it does? He'll keep it up. In a couple of 15 days, we'll have the same ones again. He'll keep it up. Call the Board of Chiefs. Form a draft national understanding for this thing. The refugee's here to stay. Unfortunately or happily, human culture, the history of human culture is a history of population movement. We are entering such a historic phase at this time, both for the reasons of war and for the reasons of the climate crisis. Twenty-three million is in Chad. It hasn't rained for 15 years. They, once hostilities stop in Libya, swimmers will pass through the Mediterranean, as the Dorians also came down in 1100 BC. when the snow came to Albania. We're entering this period. It's our geographical location. Greece cannot solve the problem by itself. He can't solve it. He wants changes on a national front on some things. But the EUR 700,000,000 why did the European Union give it to you guys? Will someone tell me? Why did the European Union give it to the EUR 700,000, 000? To do what, he gave it to the 700,000 euros and you go out today and you say it? To make closed detention centers all over the country. If the countries of the European Union do not undertake - in the context of subsidiarity, the help of the common home that they are saying - the sharing of refugees, the problem will not be solved. It will not be solved and the communication lights can last many days. We'll be here again in a few days and we'll talk about it again. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I need some time, Mr President. Let's go a little bit to the bill. I'll speak a little more generally, Mr. Voridis. First of all, can you imagine that it was us in the government, that these disasters took place in Kudura, down or in oil, this year when Crete is less than EUR 140,000,000, from what happened and that we had not started procedures, as we did, in the disasters? Since November, I will tell you again that the greenhouse producers in Kudura will be compensated. And you're all making them up and making them, and now I'm putting the names on them, and now I'm getting the evidence too. Mascarali and small gaming are, dear Mackey, this thing. Mascarali and small gaming is this first. Secondly, there must be help to the European Union. As the Irish have compensated for calves, this great disaster has also been caused by climate conditions and not by tactics in general. He's hungry, and he's gonna show up on that market now, right? These 140,000,000 euros were a circle for the economy of the island. They're gonna miss these. They'll be gone very soon. They're starting to be gone. In short, it has hungered on people who produce this thing. And we can't go through this in general, he wants an answer. It wants answers and support and reclaim by the European Union. Now for the cooperatives. Listen, I read the bill a little bit, but what I understood is that you are choosing - ideologically, of course, but we disagree horizontally and vertically. What can we do? Obviously! In other words, if there is an economic interest in a product which has a designation of origin, a product which is infiltrated by a product which may have a price, it is allowed to a private person by taking 35%, without, of course, paying for the size of the share, entering and controlling the cooperative and ultimately owning the assets, because that is the fairy tale. That's the story all because there's too many assets, isn't it? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is also the thickest one: in Greece the system was not set up - and not only in the rural world and elsewhere - for the producer, it was set up for the broker, for the trader, for the parasite in many cases. You don't hit them. You give them space to get in and control in a more direct way and those who have not control over them so far than those who produce them. The policy of strengthening SMEs and small and medium-sized producers is a policy that strengthens the cooperatives of these people, trains them, executives with technical staff, lends them by a development bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u329	Mr. Colleague, we've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u330	Yes, we were late, but we also had a Stournara, who left neither the Development Bank nor the micro-credit bank nor the other one that we called from the EEA and the FBI money that could be financed with the huge reserves they have. Because Stournaras took care of the memorials, kept the gems, which is why the Development Bank and the micro-credit bank could, together with tax incentives, support the producers, because he is stealing their livelihood to the overwhelming majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u331	Mr. Colleague, we've reached ten minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u332	All right, Mr President, a little more tolerability.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u333	But, ten minutes you've spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u334	Don't cut me off. Let me turn it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u335	Turn it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u336	You, with this policy that you do not support these people, but you open up another corridor to the middlemen, the traders, to put in hand and the real estate of the cooperatives. This is the central idea of the bill. But now they're by the way. In this ideological concept, we are clearly across. Be assured that what we can do at local society level from these eight hundred - who are real, are not seals, these cooperatives, the sixty thousand were seals - will not let them pass into the hands of some traders who will smell roasted to get in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u337	Mr Chrysomalis Miltiadis has the floor from the New Democracy. The following is Mrs Biziu and Mr Cretan, and the procedure is completed. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. I'll talk about immigration later. I'll start with the bill. Of course, and 140,000 euros are missing from Crete, from oil, from Messinia, perhaps, near EUR 200,000, 000, and that is how we have lost the battle on the shelf. We have lost it because of your own policy and the reason why you have legislated and that is what we are trying to correct today. Why, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, with Mr.4384/2016, you voted - in fact, delivered to your ideas - was a law, a piece of legislation, which did nothing but to exercise a suffocating control over cooperatives, to impose rules and procedures incompatible with their legal status and to bring the Ministry to the "great Father" of a Soviet-type cooperative function, which under no circumstances could help to the healthy development of the cooperative movement. That's exactly what happened. The results you heard earlier: Thirty-two thousand members of cooperatives left the cooperatives, hundreds of cooperatives from active ones decreased, their turnover decreased. These are the results of your policy. You chose in 2016, to return to anachronistic forms of state intervention the cooperative movement, such as those of the 1980s, when the cooperatives instead of the areas to serve the financial interests of farmers had been transformed into annexes of parties. That's what you've done. In fact, in your explanatory statement at the time, you proposed that - you listen to a nice report - the reconstruction and resolution of cooperatives on the basis of the social economy and collectiveness. What does that mean? Farmers have lived it in practice and understood what it means. The results you saw. At the opposite, clearly, we are trying to bring back cooperative legislation to the requirements of the Constitution, free rural entrepreneurship and give the cooperative movement the impetus it needs, without state-owned blockages and restrictions. We are not afraid to say it, ladies and gentlemen, we are probably calling it: we want rural entrepreneurship. We want to help agricultural cooperatives find their place in the modern economic environment. What we do not want, under any circumstances, is to return to the absolute and suffocating state control of the operation and organisation of agricultural cooperatives, such as the one you wish to see, because, as Article 12 of the Constitution says, it specifically provides for rural cooperatives to be self-governed on the basis of their statutes and restricts the state only to the protection, supervision and care for their development, which you have forgotten with your law and then introduced restrictive commitments, which in no case relate to self-government cooperatives. It is therefore true, Mr Polakis, that our draft law is clear with an ideological mark. After all, it could not be done otherwise with that Minister to suggest it. It is a liberal bill that has its roots, I would say, in the first Venizelos - Papanastassiou - Michalakopoulou, one - very pro-agricultural law. We have heard in your criticism that the draft law of the government violates the cooperative principle of autonomy and independence. You're obviously confused. We are simply abolishing and giving cooperatives their constitutional right to decide on the statutes and interests of their members. Neither are we intervening in the process of electing the boards of directors nor in the decision-making process to judge the economic future of cooperatives. On the contrary, we give them, with this draft law, the tools they need to become competitive, to be able to increase their economic size, to obtain a better income for their members. This also serves the provision laid down in the draft law on the entry of private investors into agricultural cooperatives. It connects producers to processing, gives access to capital which are missing from the cooperatives to modernise their infrastructure and to their liquidity. You tell us that we put business people through the cooperatives through the back door, that with the 35% participation we give them the opportunity to take democratic decisions. You probably don't understand, ladies and gentlemen. It's not the Ministry's decision. The general meeting of cooperatives decides whether it wishes to proceed with the entry of a private investor and even decides by a qualified majority of 2/3, after considering whether it is in their interest. That's our main difference. We do not regard farmers as micronomists, who do not know their interest. We think they know their interest and they know how to decide about it. We also don't consider investors to be a fool, because by your law you wanted an investor to enter, but without taking part in the decision what money he's going to make. Such an investor has not yet been born, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. The market is called a sucker, but suckers won't be easy to find. That's why your plan didn't go ahead. Let's not laugh, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Your problem is one. It makes it clear to you that the draft law of the Government strengthens cooperative entrepreneurship or - to say so in the words of your rapporteur - it disturbs you because it is dealing with cooperatives as upcoming businesses and the state as managers because it allows the market, as you say, to invade the cooperatives. It disturbs you, because it simplifies the procedures for setting up a cooperative without the mediation of the peace tribunal to facilitate farmers who wish to go ahead with this, and finally, it disturbs you that we reduce the capital and the number of members needed to establish a cooperative in ten. Understood, finally. No matter how disillusioned you are in the face of the markets, however ideologically opposed to entrepreneurship, this is a one-way option. A healthy and powerful cooperative movement can ensure a better price for meslin oil, standardize production and search for new markets using their designation of origin. Our producers are willing. Cooperatives in Messinia are not a few. Oil, as you all know, is qualitatively excellent. What is missing is the funds and know-how, so that we can move from simple olive oil production to integrated vertical production of standardisation and promotion. In other words, beyond the battle in the field, we must also win the battle on the shelf. That is what we are legislating today. We are returning to the liberal roots of the cooperative movement. We defend the right of Greek farmers to claim a better tomorrow. We apply in practice our ideological commitments to less state intervention in cooperative matters, having learned from the catastrophic interventions of the 1980s. Put aside your idealism and finally understand modern economic conditions, but also the strict protective role of the state. Let our farmers develop their cooperative movement freely. Let them claim the future they desire. With your tolerance, Mr President, for just half a minute, I should like to say that all these days' thoughts can only be found in the men and women of the security bodies of the port, the police, the border guards, the military, who are taking care of the security and integrity of our borders in Evros and the eastern Aegean, against the asymmetric threat brought to our doorstep by the Turkish state, where the greatest traveler of souls on the globe is now shown. I am only sorry that in the face of the conspiracy shown by the Greek society, the Acoustic Opposition until before it chose the awkward silence, before the President, Mr. Tsipras, cried out, that there are eventually borders and that they do well to guard them from the Greek forces. Ladies and gentlemen, we are all being judged, especially when the country undergoes an attempted invasion that has never lived before in the years of post-population. You, gentlemen of SYRIZA, choose on which side of the story you want to find. We, this party, have proved over time that it is always on the right side of history and it will remain on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u339	Mr Minister, you have asked for the floor for the two amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u340	I will be short-hauled in the sense that most of them have already been developed in committee. My colleagues know what this is all about. It is simply now submitted to this procedure. One, of course, is on the table with regard to the arrangements for issues of the Improvement Agency. I told you that it raised an issue with an opinion from the AACC on staff, which can be recruited by the Improvement Agency. There, therefore, adopted an opinion from the AACC on how this can be done and the AACC actually said that for TWGs they can be recruited under their rules of procedure, and for GFCF the procedure of the AACC needs to be followed. I personally have and have had disagreement, if you like, with the thought of the AACC, as I saw it legally. I have not seen what is being reaped, which, that is, a legal text because the practice was not different to it. All OEBs followed recruitment on the basis of their rules of procedure. In any case, in order to end this issue now, we have to regulate it as follows: in the case of the GFCM, TEB anymore, that it is private law law with an indefinite duration, it goes to the ADP procedure - all unlimited time - and what is a fixed time - that is, essentially the contractors - is going in accordance with the procedure of the rules of procedure. This is the arrangement to solve this bishop, which has never affected because it has never been implemented. It's a very recent decision. It's UNPA decision 19. It didn't affect the operation at all. In other words, the decision of the AACC did not apply. Just to avoid a question being raised, that's why we're regulating the issue here. There is a provision in the second amendment, which we are bringing together and which is overdue. However, I have spoken to you about this amendment in committee. Its delay is that we did not catch up with the General Accounting procedure, which was a little delayed. He had a process there, because he had to hold the Treasury to consent to it, because he has a series of exemptions. What does she say now? That it gives a period of two months to inactive cooperatives, in order to go to a voluntary solution, not to the other solution we provide for in the law, which is essentially the solution for the many cooperatives that we are going to go to a process by the agency. In the case of voluntary solution and in order to proceed with the liquidation, they will be able to be exempted - they will, if they make the declaration - in all previous years from any fine, additional tax, interest or late payment, to which they are submitted as a result of the non-submission of all types of declarations. What is this amendment trying to tackle? It had been before, if I remember correctly, 2014. It is trying to deal with this: Inactive cooperatives who want to enter cleansing have a major problem, because they have to make all the statements that they have not submitted over the years in a series of fines and surcharges. So that, because they are very small cooperatives and they are inactive, it is a stimulus and that is what we are trying to resolve now to whatever extent and any application it has. I don't think it'll be spectacular. The third one - that is what I said before - is the extension, which we are giving up to 31-12-2020. It concerns the use of real estate made to main occupation farmers or unemployed by decisions of the regional authority concerned in accordance with Article 36 of Law 4061/2012. These have expired at 31-12-2019. We had the hope - to tell you the truth, we did not want to prolong any more, we wanted to go to the application of the article of Law 4061 - that we will be able to do so by service. It was overrated that we did. At the moment it seems that we do not have the opportunity to do so. More time is needed and work is more technical and more demanding that the agency should do to achieve the implementation of this law. In any case, we are in a process - I tell you, this will be our third or fourth piece of legislation - to revise the Law 4061/2012. It's one of the things we want to do about the issue of the real estate and real estate of the Ministry. In any case, we said to give an extension of up to 31/12-2020, so that we could go to the law and according to what it lays down. The delay is here and it is justified, because we actually hoped that we would be able to finish it. But we said, because they are now entering a growing season and that has not been settled, that we should give them the legal basis for possession, because then there are problems with the IAC declarations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u341	Mr President, please speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u342	Here you go, Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u343	In any case, these amendments must be seen and we will be placed tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u344	Yeah, that's why I said it today, so there's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u345	That's right. I just want to ask the Minister this: are you extensions, Minister, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u346	I don't want to do it, but it just happens!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u347	Because you had made it a doctrine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u348	It's one of the things I don't like at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u349	You don't like it, but I see that other extensions are coming, not just those.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u350	Minimal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u351	Because there are unresolved issues very seriously and the deadlines are over.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u352	The reason for this is that Mrs Biziu Stergiani from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a long list of Greek agricultural products with high quality to dominate international markets. Olive oil, feta cheese, peaches, honey and much more. All of us have the task of getting these Greek products to take the lead in international markets. The New Democracy's commitment was to restructure the primary sector. The Prime Minister has stated in every way that the country's primary sector is a major strategic objective of the government. But what are the strategic priorities of our primary sector? Improving productivity, research and innovation in agricultural holdings, increasing the value of products, strengthening competitiveness through strengthening productive investments and supporting the extroversion of agricultural products and producers. What is happening, however, and the primary sector of our country cannot make sufficient use of its competitive advantages? The small size as a business model is linked to high production costs, with inability to attract capital, with inability to cover marketing costs, with inability to cover R&D and innovation costs. One given, therefore, which in practice has been proven, is that it is impossible to compete on the international markets for small enterprises. Inevitably, the solution for a competitive and profitable agricultural and food sector lies in the economy of the scale and in the case of the primary sector of the economy of scale means collaborative, innovative, modern and functional cooperative patterns. What does that mean, practically? It means that cooperation must be a vital tool for agricultural production, agricultural trade, the tool that can lead the primary sector to the success it deserves. Agricultural cooperatives are an integral link to the agricultural process and under the appropriate conditions and conditions can become the vehicle for ejecting our agricultural product into international competition. To achieve this, it needs a vision and an institutional framework that will allow them to function as modern businesses with a view to sustainable growth and, of course, to profitability. This is also the strategic direction that the Ministry of Rural Development has drawn up for the farmers and producers of our country and is contained in this bill. We must not forget that in the years of the crisis many young people have returned to the countryside with a view to dealing with the primary sector. These people want to implement modern practices and techniques both in the cultivation itself and in the management, management and marketing of their businesses. We owe these new producers but also traditional producers, to offer the tools that will facilitate their efforts. So, what are the critical and different elements in the cooperative model proposed by our Ministry? First of all, the cooperatives, the members of the cooperatives, are given the opportunity to form the appropriate framework for their operation. Agricultural cooperatives can now regulate the issues of their organization and business activity themselves, as is done in any business in any sector. Secondly, membership of investors is allowed. The benefits of the existence of investors in any business activity are multiple. The most important thing is that they provide funding to build up and develop the business. And if somewhere found the Greek agricultural sector is lacking, it's marketing and communication. With the new arrangement, resources will be available for marketing, communication, research and development of products and services. In addition, a cash flow from investors means that members do not need to use their own reserves or touch their own assets. Thirdly, the required number of founding members is reduced from twenty to ten. The possibility of creating a special reserve from the surpluses or profits of agricultural cooperatives is envisaged and the tax regime governing the operation of agricultural cooperatives is redefined as long as the advantages created by the agricultural cooperative are not taxed. The profits distributed to members are taxed as dividends, in accordance with the provisions of the applicable tax, and any gains resulting from the valuation of the assets in the transformation of the agricultural cooperative will be exempted from any tax. Let me also think about the specific provision for women's rural cooperatives. In the case of women's agricultural cooperatives, the number of founding members required is only five, and there is no need for a board of directors when it is a few, such as the majority of them. Through the women's cooperatives, local products are promoted, economic gain is achieved, local cultural heritage is created and new jobs are created. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill falls on a strong ideological basis in the freedom of choice, which means that we are finally escaping from the absolute partisanism of cooperatives, which we have seen in the past, which has led to things. For my prefecture, Larissa, which is leading the agricultural sector and has fifty-seven total cooperatives, of which some eleven are women's cooperatives, the bill we are voting on is a driving force for the recovery of the rural economy in the country. We support the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development, because we very simply support the Greek producer and the Greek countryside. Before I close, I would like to say a very big thank you to the members of the Armed Forces, the Police and the Port Authority who in these difficult hours make us proud of the struggle they give to the Greek border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u354	Thank you for the time too. Last speaker was Mr Neocles Cretan from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u355	Mr President, as the last speaker, I will start from the events in Evros and then refer to the bill. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in representing the citizens of Laconia, I express my gratitude to the young children and experienced officials of the Armed Forces and the Security Unions who guard Thermopylae and who keep our borders open. We are convinced that our Prime Minister, as the first among equals, creates the conditions for security and prosperity for Greek citizens. Today Greece, according to the statement by Mrs Ursula Von Der Lyen, is Europe's shield. And if in its long history Greece was a cultural light, a source of letters and an art creator for Europe, today is its last border, the border that protects, vigilant and resists against a targeted attack by the neighbouring country with human and real weapons. We are determined on the side of our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and we will not let anyone Erdogan work on the immigration crisis and move the hybrid war towards our country and Europe undisturbed. Our first concern is the safety and well-being of Greek citizens. Our solidarity with other peoples stops in the insecurity of our own people. Our sympathy and open arms stops the threat of our social cohesion. Yours Ernesto Tse Guevara had as his project the "stadium or death". Was he a nationalist, ladies and gentlemen of the left wing, too? I don't think so. We, of course, will not shout "Father or Death" against ergonomic charlatanism, but the time-consuming call of Spartan King Leonidas "Mollon!" And because history shows the right and wrong and separates the logic from the fanatics, Turkey should very seriously calculate the possibility of continuing its game at the border of our country. In the face of Turkish provocation, then, we are all a fist united with our minds and hearts to our young guarding Thermopylae. So, with this bill and the rationalisation of the operation of cooperatives, it is certain that the core of our legislative intervention is related to strengthening freedom and flexibility in their operation. We do not believe that the state is better aware of the problems that exist within the cooperatives than directly involved growers and cooperatives. I heard the Opposition mention that this bill transfers the property to a few individuals, that it serves family rule, that it serves 'local', that it excludes growers, that it creates deadlocks. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine that your law, Mr.4384, was excellent, was effective, created prosperity and extrovert to the cooperatives, and that's why you're shouting. Unfortunately, however, the figures say different things to you. For example: Members of cooperatives in 2017 were hundreds of thirty thousand, while in 2018 some ninety-nine. In other words, we had a reduction of about thirty thousand members. Failure? The number of new cooperatives in 2017 reached seventy, while in 2018 it was thirty. We had a reduction in the creation of new cooperatives. Failure? The number of informed cooperatives in 2017 was eight hundred nineteen, while in 2018 six hundred twenty-one. During the implementation of your excellent bill, therefore, some 200 cooperatives were transferred to an inactive state. Maximum failure! It is clear that with your own legislature and specific numerical results, as the Minister of Agriculture announced from the Step of the House, you failed to create conditions for development in the cooperatives. We, therefore, have, in this piece of legislation, been overcoming anchorages and an elbow that we are over is that of non-participation in the management bodies of potential investors. Do you know any investor who would put his money into a company or cooperative without having the right to participate in the administration? That is what was foreseen by Mr.4384, and that is why we believe that it has failed in practice. This bill also contains around 90% of the issues raised in public consultation, and this shows emphatically that we are a government that follows the right arguments of the citizens, follows our logic and principle, freedom and flexibility, and that of our own ideology. We are with the directly concerned, the organised bodies, those who really know the needs of the cooperatives. The two organised bodies, the UNSCR and the new PSCEGIES, say that the bill is moving in the right direction, while accepting individuals with certain conditions, of course. It is certain that in an open globalised market, the results of which we see in olive oil this year, which the product is supplied from where it finds a better return, the entry of capital creates only an optimistic signal, as the cooperatives will be given the necessary tools for quality, more efficient and more attractive to the production markets. It will be possible to promote products dynamically through targeted advertising and efficient management. Ladies and gentlemen, as we had the opportunity and time to test the results of your own legislative effort, so that you too have patience to see the results of our own legislature, which is the result of the core of our ideological identity, freedom and the open market in investments and economies of scale. We are sure that the framework that we are shaping will give solutions and provide opportunities for cooperatives to acquire extroversion and, of course, to streamline their operation smoothly. Thank you very much and good night to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u356	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Thursday 19 December 2019 and Friday 20 December 2019 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u357	The minutes of Thursday 19 December 2019 and Friday 20 December 2019 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-03-03-S1-commons.u358	With the consent of the House at 22.45' the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 4 March 2020 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Agrarian Cooperatives and other provisions'.
