ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I would ask you to dilute a little because you are very close. I would like you to dilute like the other day in Zappeion that was exemplary. There are benches and backwards so that there is no crowd. That's for health reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waivers of immunity of Members: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on applications for waivers of immunity of Members of Parliament, etc. Dionysiou Hazidakis, Athanasios Athanasios, Ioannis Amanatidis, Athanasia Anagnostopoulou, Evangelos Apostolos, Stavros Arahovilis, Anna Vageias Kilaidoni, Socrates Bardakis, George Barmeni, Christophore Vernardakis, Dimitrios Vitsa, Nikolaos Voutsi, Ollas Gerovasi, Anastasias Gara, Ioannis Draasaki, Theodore Dritsa, Hussein Zebek, Nicolas Igoumenidis, Emmanou, Evrysiasias Karassirlius, Nicosios Pandriou, Ioannis Pantopoulos, Ioannis Kyloupou, Ioannis Tsopou, Ioannis Papoulououlouou, Ioannis, Ioannis Balanosios Papou, Ioannis, Ioannis Papou, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis Balannis Papoulouou, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis Papoulououlouou, Ioannis, Ioannis Papoulououlououlououlououlouou, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis Balannis, Ioannis, Ioannis Balannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannisia, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis The first legal document concerns Mr Dionysios Hatzidakis and the second of those colleagues I have mentioned. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced the report of 27 April 2020 that the members of the Committee unanimously proposed to waive the immunity of Mr Dionysios Hatzidakis. The Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics was also announced in its report of 14 May 2020 that the members of the Committee rejected by a majority the waiver of the immunity of fifty-four Members as expressed. For the record to say there was only one disagreement. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliament shall decide by raising the hand or by reopening the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(2). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 7 March 2018 on this procedure, the new electronic roll-call system has been triggered. So since the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is closed, we will proceed to a roll-call electronic vote, as I said before. The first case concerns Mr Dionysio Hatzidakis. The first request, for Mr Hatzidakis, is there any colleague asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u2	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u3	Before I give the floor to Mr Hatzidakis, I would like to inform the House of the case. It is a case concerning Mr Hatzidakis when he was the mayor of the Old Faliros and is involved in environmental degradation - allegedly - in the collection of garbage. We cannot consider responsibility, it was of the anti - mayor cleanliness. It has been referred to the criminal court and the information says that they have been released, but because of the Revision of the Constitution and because we are applying the Constitution, the act was done when it was not a Member of Parliament, and therefore our committee unanimously gave its opinion in favour of the lifting of immunity. Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have the classic case that shows the size of human stupidity. Since 1985, the Municipality of Palaio Faliro had a place where small cars were deposited with the branches and bulky objects they collected, doors, windows, repairs they made. So instead of leaving them on the sidewalks and spending three - four days to collect them, there was this space since 1985 -- then I was a commander and governor in a destroyer -- they were picking up and every three - four days they filled up a truck and took them to the dump. Someone made an anonymous complaint. When? In 2014. She reported that we don't have a license for this thing. The district really came, checked and told us we don't have a permit. I did the impossible. This space of 100 meters was between the cemetery wall and the train station. They told me I didn't have a permit. I did the human strength, made a land use change. I legitimized it. I objected to the regional remarks, and I read to you, because sometimes some people are referred to without reading the apology. I went to the D.A. I imagine you all know what the FYROM is, it's the Urban and Dispute Council. That is where I was entitled to the fines of EUR 250 and yet he went to the audience. In other words, with an offer, ladies and gentlemen, where we gather the branches, heavy goods and transport them to the dump, instead of leaving them on the sidewalks, we are also indicted. Unfortunately, I was a congressman. The case has been avenged. The vice mayor of cleanliness was acquitted, but I because I was a Member of Parliament was not tried and the immunity had to be lifted. But what I'm telling you about human stupidity is that the regional committee admits that these were restored, but when the crime was committed, we had not done what we were doing in retrospect. And he says, then, that the law has existed since 2012. Why were we referred back then after he allowed them? Then, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to give the world the impression that the House is making sure that the Members of Parliament are not referred back, I call for the waiver of my immunity and for the courts to prove with the fait accompli, which has already been decided, that I am innocent and what I have done has not undermined the environment, by collecting the branches, leaves and doors that are renovated by the public for three days. Once they have to understand that when a municipality collects a hundred to forty tons of garbage, don't think it's an easy thing, but this has nothing to do with the waste. It's for bulky objects. However, the secretary said, "when a complaint has been made and anonymised, I cannot refer you to it and you will be justified in the courts". This is so-called human stupidity. So I ask you and I ask you to lift my immunity. It will be the 20th time that as mayor I have fled to the courts. The twenty-eight I've won, I think I'll win this one too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, the second case concerns the fifty-four colleagues, as their names have been delivered. Is there a colleague on the second request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u6	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u7	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u8	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u9	Good. Of the defendants, I would ask that there be no overlap. Talk two, three people. The committee has given its opinion. Mr Janakopoulos will then speak as a parliamentary representative. Catrugalos and Mr Philis asked for the floor. I would therefore like to remind you that our committee has decided by a large majority that it is not the case here, by applying the provision of Rule 83(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The accusation was related to the vote on the Skopje Treaty... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] ..who was finally named and has stayed in Northern Macedonia. We said it by mistake. Do not raise a matter now, officially that is the name 'North Macedonia'. You will ask your colleagues what our position was and what we said in committee. The charge was made by two private individuals and the charge was finally formed into two infringements. The first concerned the violation of Article 134 of the Criminal Code of last betrayal and the second in 239 for abuse of power. I will say at this point that the prosecutor who processed the case asked for the case to be filed, because there is no legal form of offence. In order to do this, as you know, lawyers with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure must also be approved by the Chief Prosecutors, who did not agree and asked for the procedure provided for in the Constitution to be followed. So the case came to committee. That's another matter and he's taken over...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u10	The name of the chief...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u11	Let, Mr. Philly, listen, I'll cover for you. The issue in these cases has not been fully clarified, although, in the opinion of our committee, we have all said that it may be necessary - and I think the President of this House will take a relevant initiative to contact the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay - that is to say, that such cases should be filtered, because, in any case, Article 83(1) of the Rules of Procedure has been amended to the Presidency of Apostolos Kaklamanis and that a subparagraph has been inserted in which the hands are resolved, that is to say, that those proceedings - the old one said that they are being sent to Parliament by the Minister of Justice - after being studied and processed by the prosecutor of the Ice Bay. So what's the matter with the Ice Bay Attorney? Will he see the font or the quality of the paper? Apparently in such cases... But that's the way things have come right now. The Conference of Presidents will see how these cases can be stopped, despite the fact that - I say as an alternative - we cannot deal with this because it is about the legal validity of the charge and under paragraph 4 of the 83 there is no right for the committee to examine this matter, which is why we are here. Of course, there is no question, as has been said, of admissibility, because the admissibility relates to the procedure, which has been properly followed and we do not have a delay in having an inadmissibility of the case. That is why he comes here to the committee, which will examine it. Of course, as you know, according to Rule 62 of the Constitution, the Member is not inspected for giving his or her opinion in the House or for voting. But that is an issue which was not the responsibility of the committee. This is the legal framework and the committee, with a large majority, after making a reference to the constitutional provision which I mentioned as parallel consideration, is based on paragraph 83 and says that it is of political relevance, and that is why this is the case here, and our committee recommends that the immunity of Members should not be lifted, the names of which we have mentioned. Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I will obviously not go into the substance of this unacceptable and vile sues, because - as I will then report - if I did so, I would be violating - as I think you are doing - the Constitution and, in particular, Article 61. I confine myself to saying that we do not just feel that we should apologise, but we are proud to be SYRIZA Members for the Prespecies Agreement. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This agreement did not just solve a difference of decades, it did not just send a message that Greece is a country that solves problems through dialogue and diplomacy, but also upgraded the country's diplomatic authority, as your party now acknowledges and saw the Foreign Ministry send congratulations to Northern Macedonia for joining NATO. That's not the point of discussion. Mr President, it does not apply to the case that Article 62 of the Constitution, which lays down the conditions for waiving immunity of a Member of Parliament for any offence. This provision has been amended in the Revision of the Constitution so that only those offences that are closely related to the exercise of the parliamentary power are the subject of protection. There's Article 61. Take care, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. This is important. It is about the whole House and the Member's prestige. It says Article 61 of the Constitution that no vote or opinion shall be persecuted or dealt with in any way by the Member. If I referred here to the substance of the case, I would have violated this provision of the Constitution, as in my opinion is in breach of it and the mere reference to the case here. I have heard that in the past this was the process. If I were here when this matter was being discussed, I would say the same thing, because that is a question of respect for the Constitution. It's not about this case. It is therefore unacceptable to sue - even in breach of his service - the prosecutor sends the House, when it comes to voting or an opinion. Only one exception has the Constitution, the slandering defamation. So the parliamentary committee only has to consider: the offence is about slandering? If not, the complaint is unacceptable, because - I repeat - for votes or opinions the Member is not being prosecuted or otherwise dealt with. We should also agree in the future not to see such a procedure come into Parliament on similar occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u13	To make this clear, I have said this from the outset: our committee cannot consider this. It's not an admissible matter. It's a matter of legal integrity. I'm reading you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u14	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u15	I have another opinion. The Constitution, Mr President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u16	Whether or not we actually agree, we have a rule. Article 83(4). So if you want to read it, then. The committee does not consider the relevance of the charge against the Member, so it does not only examine the essential merits, but neither is legal substance, because where the substance wants to be examined, the Constitution says so, so it comes out on its own, but it cannot examine legal basis either here. So what Mr Katrugalos says is right, but when he goes to the courts, for example, the MPs who are not Members now, the colleagues who then voted in favour of the agreement on northern Macedonia and go to the courts will be acquitted because the charge is legally unfounded on the basis of the Constitution. It's not an admissible matter. Admittedly, as I explained before. So I say this for the next ones to speak, so that we do not repeat ourselves. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I will not go into the legal place, which Mr Katrugalos, Mr Katrugalos, and you, too, have developed. Besides, I don't think the House is on trial. The House has a political opinion. First of all, I and our other colleagues who voted for the Prespecies Agreement in the Greek Parliament believe that we have done so on the basis of our patriotic duty and obeying the need for stability and peace in the region. So we are proud and politically defending this attitude. But some questions arise. Remember that at the time there were similar calls from the pamacedonian compounds. They've been rejected by the House. So what are we going to do today on an issue that has already been raised in relation to Parliament's procedure? Secondly, Mr Mitsotakis, when he consented to the accession process of the state of Northern Macedonia to the European Union, laid the foundation, as a precondition for this process, for compliance with the Prespecies Agreement. And he is now being prosecuted for the ultimate treason? Look: Nationalism has its own logic, which is completely antipatriation and produces irrationality and tension. We're not going to follow her. But I was expecting the majority representatives to have a political attitude rather than a bicoloral attitude to the problem we are discussing. The Embassy Agreement was an act of national soundness and dignity, obeying the peace and stability of the region. Mr. Mitsotakis confirmed that with his attitude! Do you deny it? The question is specific: Do you deny that it is a matter of political stability? Do you deny that Mr Mitsotakis set it as a foundation for the accession process of northern Macedonia to the European Union? What is the point of today's debate, even resorting to known legalism? Otherwise, if there was no question of any principle of the Members' opinion - which is not to be prosecuted for the expression of an opinion - I would ask for a hearing to be held at the audience and for the stupidity and foolishness of those who prosecute us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u18	Mr Philly, the debate that took place at that time was quite different. It was about terms and conditions. Because you have referred to the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, as you know, respects the institutions and as an institution that he is, is obliged to apply the laws that the Greek Parliament has passed and everything that comes from the country's international obligations. You therefore raise two different issues, in any case, that is not what we are talking about here today. Mrs Ithanasia Ignastopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. I have only asked for the floor for two minutes, to repeat that I am proud to have voted for the Prespecies Agreement and I am even more proud that the SYRIZA Government has resolved an issue, a 30-year-old problem that no one dared to solve, while everyone then - and the current Government of the New Democracy - swears to the Prespecies Agreement. To try some - as attempted last year with fanaticism - to separate Greek and Greek MPs from patriots and ethnicists, this is not going to happen again. We've lived in this country and it's never gonna happen again. I won't talk about the legal part. We all have to take a stand on such a matter, when Members are denounced as traitors or as betrayals, when a national issue has been resolved in an era and in an area where such issues are in the interest of the country and state. We feel proud and have nothing to fear. I agree with Mr. Friend. I would very much like, if it wasn't a matter of principle, to be in court against those who accuse us of the most recent treason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u20	I would now ask Mrs Vaguea to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I will not, of course, deal with the legal framework, because other more competent colleagues and able ones have dealt with it. I would like to say that I am proud of the agreement, of course, but also of the 'last betrayal', for this category that has arrived in the Greek Parliament. I'll add it to my CV with pride that I was charged with the most treason. When I was little I was reading, like all of us in literature and in books, the statements that I usually went to the last treason, the resistance fighters, the people who fought the Germans, and many of them invoked the most treason. No dowry, none of the people who worked with the Germans, as far as I know, was convicted and charged with the last treason. In that sense, then, it's an honor to me...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u22	Please, colleagues. Leave it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u23	I know them very well. It's an honor to me this most treason charge. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] All my life, I think, I defended this country with my little powers, with the deep patriotic feeling I have! All my life! I have not stolen, I have not misled from the Greek state. This is the last treason! The ones who pulled the millions abroad. Right now my whereabouts, my statements, they're talking about it. And some people's statements are talking about it. I am honoured, then, to have this last betrayal!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Baguea. Mr Janakopoulos was asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative. Then the President of Greece will take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Janakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u25	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Obviously, I endorse everything that has been said previously by SYRIZA's indulgent Members on a case, which I think shows the extent of the nonsense of Greek nationalism. However, I am asking for the floor to say that, about a year and a half after the adoption of the Prespecies Agreement, this central option for the country's foreign policy has changed, reshaped the field of relations in the Balkans, but has reshaped relations between the two countries, Greece and Northern Macedonia, it is extremely good that the Prespecies Agreement is now the pillar of the country's foreign policy strategy, as is apparent from all government statements from 8 July onwards. This political turn of the New Democracy from ethnicism to the recognition of the offer on the overall political map in the Balkans I think has been sealed by the recent approval given by the European Union for the start of the accession negotiations in northern Macedonia, an accession negotiations, which was initiated and approved by the European Union, with a reminder from the Greek side, that it depends on the faithful respect of the Prespecies Agreement. In view of the fact that this reminder has no legal practical effect at all, that is to say, I take this reminder and by oral Prime Minister and also by an oral Minister for Foreign Affairs as a political recognition of the Ambassadors' agreement on grounds relating to the country's international relations and for reasons relating to relations between the country and the other European partners. I believe that, on the basis of all this, the days that MPs were threatened by the new Republic was triggering nationalist hatred moves and practices. The days have elapsed since the palmacedonian organizations threatened Greek MPs and Greek MPs with exodus. That is why I believe that it is a good thing that you are placed in the way you are placed in relation to the lawsuit that has been filed. However, I would also like to make a legal comment. Mr President, you are making an interpretation in the committee, on the basis of which Article 61 of the Constitution is essentially inactive. Because if a case-law relating to an opinion or a vote of a Member comes here every time, then instead of Article 61 of the Constitution, which provides for a single exception for the examination or prosecution of a Member to be concerned with the offence of slandering. On the contrary, you choose to apply Rule 62, namely, you choose to apply the article according to which immunity is withdrawn for offences not related to the political action of the Member. What are you actually doing? You are making an article of the Constitution, namely Article 61 completely inactive. Because what is the reason for the existence of Article 61 which bans completely, except in the case of slandering, examining or prosecuting a Member, if in all proceedings you insist that Article 62 of the Constitution be applied? So you understand - and this is what we say about the Minutes - that there is a legal contradiction here, which may also be guided by political considerations, if you wish, of internal discussions on the New Democracy. I understand that the political turn made by the government creates imbalances within the New Democracy. But these cannot lead to circumvention of the Constitution itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u26	I have to answer. I explained before that the plenary is considering this, that the committee is not considering it, because it concerns legal basis, and I referred to Article 61. In fact, I did not say to the committee, which took the unanimous opinion of everyone, that for the first time such a case was written in our practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u27	What conspiracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u28	So I'll read it, Mr. Janakopoulos. "The committee, without being able to examine the merits of the categories under Rule 83(4) of the Rules of Procedure, refers to Rule 61 whereby the Member is not persecuted or examined in any way for his or her opinion or for his or her vote in the performance of his or her duties." The House is the competent body, it is not the committee. If we change the Rules of Procedure, we can say it. And they have nothing to do with what you are saying now with the internals of the New Democracy. Where to? It's done by two. I have to tell you, I have told you in committee, that it is completely inappropriate to sue for me - a personal view - and I should not even have come here. Unfortunately, he's here and we'll follow the process. If we want tomorrow to change the Rules of Procedure and to delete Article 83(3), we shall do so. But, if that is the case, we will apply it. Greek President Velopoulos asked for the floor. You have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would not like to speak today, but I am forced to speak for two - three main reasons. The beginning of the Greek Solution is that what comes here to go to justice. Whatever comes here, even if it concerns Members of the Greek Solution, to go to justice. Escapes, excuses, legal tricks don't fit in us. That is our understanding, and we believe it. Of course, you know, I didn't understand New Democracy why it reacted to what SYRIZA's gentlemen said. SYRIZA's gentlemen say they made a deal - I will comment a minute later - on the Prespecies Agreement and I hear from the side shouting, protesting. Why don't the gentlemen change it if they disagree with the deal? They apply it faithfully and outrageously! I do not understand why the New Democracy reacts in this way. Also, today, I am honestly going to say it to understand it and those who are watching us, unfortunately, New Democracy has fallen into its trap. They place themselves on hot spots in Larissa as commander of the rally for Macedonia. They self-deterate and self-integrate. They put a Hatzidai, if I remember well, who was a candidate state member of the New Democracy. What do they call and exalt them and follow them for the Embassy Agreement? I didn't get it. Let's change it. And I'll tell you how it can change. I've submitted it to the Prime Minister, too. Also, the words lost their meaning. We're confused in here. I hear the SYRIZA Members - their right to say that they are proud of the Ambassadors' agreement. I do not understand where this pride arises. 'Cause you're proud when you kicked out fascism in Pindo in 1940. I understand that. You're proud of the '21 Revolution. I understand that. In national victories we are proud, not in compromises. You're proud when the junta leaves your country. But, in national compromises to be proud, that's... You know, words have now lost their meaning. And that's what bothers me. Also - to make this clear - because we are talking about violations, I would like to say this: Seventy-two Skopje violations have taken place in the past year. It's seventy-two in number. I filed them in the Minutes. There is therefore an opportunity for the New Democracy to denounce the shameful Ambassadors' agreement. No one can be proud to have kept a name that doesn't belong to any of us. The name of Macedonia is neither mine nor yours. It belongs to the former and later. We got the dog. You delivered a name and you're proud of it? I would like to say to Mr Katrugalo, whom I like anyway, that I do not understand where the international recognition of the country arises. Does it result from Libya? Does it occur from southern Crete? Does it occur from the Aegean? Is it from the North Continent? Does it result from what Turkey is doing today, which announced bases in Albania? Where's our international prevalence? I don't understand. Don't say things that don't apply. Of course, this is not a legal matter for us. It's national. It's not politics. It's national. Macedonia and other issues relating to national issues under the Constitution are taking place in elections. Unfortunately, they signed the Prespecies Agreement and delivered a name and all the fellow sinners, without asking the Greek people. And that was their mistake. I'm not saying it's treason, as some people say here and there, but they shout. I'm saying it was your fault. Don't say you're proud! As for the New Democracy, I expect, Mr President of the House, that the debate be held on a committee of inquiry - we need a hundred and twenty Members - to ask Mr Kotzias from whom he was pressed to go to this agreement. For us, she's shameful. I won't say it's treachery. The Greek people say that. But for us it was wrong. And the mistake has to admit. You made a mistake. And the mistake is still being made by the people of New Democracy. We expect, Mr President of the House, that a debate will be held here on Mr Kotzia. I'm waiting. You said it would happen at the end of May. Let's go for June now. Don't take it down until the election, to have a conversation. We must finally see why the gentlemen signed and why you did nothing to change the agreement. Because the Macedonians are listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u30	What are you voting for?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u31	So you see now a purely legal issue that we now have to decide is politicized from all sides. That is what we now have in Parliament. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I will apologise to both colleagues and ministers who have other jobs, but I think that as you said the debate went into another context. I wanted to say that this case of the petition of certain citizens against the MPs of SYRIZA, including the former Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, on the charge of misuse of power, but also of the last betrayal due to the vote in favour of the Ambassadors' Agreement with Law 4588/2019 once again proves the wisdom of the constitutional legislature that has been appointed by Article 61 - and I read - 'the Member's impunity for the opinion or vote which he gave in the course of his parliamentary duties'. It is precisely this wisdom, ladies and gentlemen, that the New Democracy party is coming to defend. Because for us it is a fundamental principle and a core of the proper functioning of our democracy, the obvious right of every Member to express and vote in conscience, without fear of criminal persecution at his expense, obeying only the laws and the Constitution. So the position of the parliamentary majority, as expressed in the Ethics Committee, is that the immunity should not be lifted. The New Democracy - and we are clear about this - disagreed and disagreed with the Ambassadors' agreement. He considered it a harmful agreement that recommended a withdrawal from the achievements of previous governments, a withdrawal from the national fundamental red lines, a withdrawal from the acquis of Bucharest. This is an agreement that we still do not understand what benefited the Greek people. That is why the New Democracy has then exhausted as an Opposition all the parliamentary means it has had to prevent the Presidencies Agreement from being ratified for which you are proud. Even a motion of censure, as you remember, we tabled. But the government survived then. As Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has said, once the agreement was signed, it should be implemented because our country obviously has a continuity. And I call on all of them - and outside the Chamber - to step up the cancellation of the agreement to tell us honestly what message they would send for our country in the international community if we did so. Would it be the message of a country of law, which honors the signing of the country or country that fails its international obligations? Think well of your answer, especially when International Law is our country's shield against Turkey's pursuits. For us, New Democracy, the answer is simple: Greece was, is and will be the rule of law. We disagreed with SYRIZA about the Prespecies Agreement. But once the agreement has been ratified, it is our duty to apply it to ensure compliance with the rules. We very much note the respect of the agreed North Macedonian side, defending our national interests. At the same time, as far as possible, we are doing everything we can to reduce the negative effects. I now come to those who are fishing just in the blurred waters of populism and extreme nationalism with an inexpensive rhetoric about the assignment of the sacred name of Macedonia. I would like to point out to them that they do not have the monopoly on love for their country. They don't belong. It belongs to all of us, love for our country, to all elected representatives of the nation. At the historic and critical juncture that we are going through with Turkey's raw and uncovered aggression, with the instability in the geopolitical scenery, with the reorientation of forces and the emergence of new players, it is not time to build internal enemies. It is time for a synthesis of views and cooperation. The country paid for the division with blood. And we all have a historic duty not to allow it to happen again. We are not allowed to speculate on national issues by anyone. I will be absolutely upright, as all the Members of the New Democracy are here at the National Representation. We strongly condemn all extreme behaviour from wherever it comes. For we disagree politically, but we respect the right of the opponent to differing opinion. We respect Parliament's decisions. We respect the rule of law. I would remind the National Representation and with us and with the Greek people that in 2013, the same reasoning that was analysed today and legally, was then rejected and the charge of the last betrayal to vote on the memorandum was then rejected, if you remember. So, ladies and gentlemen, this case is of the opinion that it should be filed. Perhaps it should have been filed before it came to the National Representation, because it is not possible to allow national strategic choices to be converted, whatever they may be, into criminal acts. A judge of all is the sovereign Greek people. Besides, the cancellation of international treaties and the attempted persecution of policies are inconsistent with our constitutional principles and democratic affiliations. So let's not get carried away today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u33	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u34	You can't, Mr. Heta. Your Chief spoke. It is a special provision in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u35	Mr President, I need thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u36	Oh, no. Everyone can't talk. Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u37	I want the time for thirty seconds!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u38	The rest of the parties must speak, Mr. Heta. Mr President, do I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u39	Here you go, Mr. Catherine.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u40	I think that open doors are being violated by those who interpret our own position, which is clearly against criminalising political vote and choice. And it says this, which has suffered in the most extreme way several years before the same type of political persecution, which, unfortunately, has had some of the participants in today's delegation present to legalise with their own participation all those who have been talking about the most recent treason, talked about people who are selling national sovereignty and, of course, were pressing against a political party and politicians who have made specific choices. It is therefore clear that we do not only agree with this procedure, but we really consider the whole process incomprehensible, Mr President, and how it reaches the National Representation a case in which I think a judicial prosecutor should have from the contents only and by interpreting both the legislation and the Constitution to judge that this is a criminalisation of the political vote and that it is not a matter on which the National Representation should rule. This, however, is also a lesson with a backdrop in the past, but also with a view to the future for all those with ease to reap political benefits in time, to touch on the wave of populism and to mock those who chant, protest, but do not obviously have a counter-problem in political decisions. That is why we clearly say that we do not vote in favour of the lifting of immunity from SYRIZA colleagues, as we would not do for any other fellow Members whose political view is criminalised, but also call upon the SYRIZA colleagues and colleagues from other political parties to make a brave and sincere self-criticism, because they have allowed such behaviour to succeed against a political party and political person with their tolerance, silence and, unfortunately, with their consent in the past few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u41	Mr President, I want the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u42	Listen, let me read the order. Here we have a special provision, it's not what you can talk about in half a year. Listen, he says: 'The speech is given to Members who are also concerned with the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u43	But things are coming up!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u44	They may ask for five MPs later. Mr. Bukokouros can ask for the floor. How am I gonna say no to him? Please. Mr. Heta, I'm sorry, but I can't! Let's move on. The former President of the Greek Parliament can speak. How much time do you want, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u45	You have selective rigour, you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u46	Apart from the fact that the President can speak by the Rules of Procedure, he is also a defendant, but he has not made use of his being a defendant. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Katrinis and Mr Lebanese spoke earlier about today on behalf of their parties, they provide a framework for institutional functioning on today's day as history writes daily. Because it is a story that lives for the present and the future. However, this Chamber and this country recently, just last year, lived and wrote history and are very fresh about the memories we should have - and I am also responsible for it - to bring them back to the surface just so that there are no such moments that we have experienced. I would remind you, therefore, that ten days had come for us before the vote on the Prespecies Agreement by the so-called paccedonian organisations from various continents, perhaps even to all the Members of the Greek Parliament, with whom we were threatened with the most treason if we were to be abrupt - because there had not been a vote to know who would be abducted - to vote in favour of the Prespecies Agreement. On this basis, after the Embassy Agreement was passed, then on 25 March, and this is a black page which was written, not called and was prevented from being represented by the Greek Parliament at all events which were held by the people of America on all continents and in America and Australia and in Canada and so on, because the Greek community was manipulated there by this terrible climate, the divisive, which these so-called organisations considered to be expressing. And in fact last year no one went. And a Vice-President of the House, Mr. Borente, whom we have sent, has suffered terrible disapprovals from a small portion, but who has manipulated the situation in Melbourne if I am not mistaken. At the same time, the Greek Parliament experienced an unprecedented tension, to an extent and during a period of attack, when it had become the second rally by groups of extremists, goldenmen and not only, who for four hours - remember very well the events reported by the police - were trying from five different points to attack and invade the Greek Parliament. There was really a very serious effort by the Greek police and the forces and with a large number of wounded persons on the part of the Security Forces who were able to fulfil their duties - in front of us, these events were made - so that they would not enter the Greek Parliament. Immediately after and before, there have been terrible efforts by groups against Members of the Greek Parliament in their homes, disembodied in the columns and other places, in Thessaloniki and elsewhere, in order to target and mark personally all the Members of the Greek Parliament who had voted in favour of the Embassy Agreement. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to go particularly into the issue of the New Democracy and its interior, because it is clear and has been recorded in history that the leadership of the New Democracy regularly allegedly tried to include what was called instead of the SYRIZA front, its own strategy, to add it and leave an entire agenda with its own views, as Mr Lebanese said earlier, in order to manipulate, count, meet with the views of the most extreme and within society and within the political life of the place. Then there was the Golden Dawn in here. It was a gray age in terms of the extreme tactics of the New Democracy ahead of us and the elections that would take place some months later. Of course, there was also the historic meeting we held here, during which there were also the phenomena of the different views, something quite legitimate. I just want to say that these have been recorded in history. Within the party of the then opposition officer and today of the New Democracy government, these phenomena have come to the surface in an explosive way, where, in the absence of the current Prime Minister and in the absence of a few Members, who had a different view, that is to say, the one Mr Lebanese expressed today for the continuation of the country and for the institutional representation of Parliament's decisions, the New Democracy has always come to the government - I mean, in the absence of these colleagues - the rest of the parliamentary group, the very large majority of the New Democracy, welcomed and welcomed - I repeat that I respect that, because they were opinions - the extremeist speech by the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, who defended everything that we have been discussing today, even in Bucharest, even if there were three Macedonian geographically marked signs, from which the debate has started in the past century. And it went on, in extreme terms, before the Greek Parliament. So that was the story. Let us now see the issue - and I close, Mr President - because there are stops to stability, as to whether this agreement has been decisive and whether it is now in the critical situation. I do not just welcome it, but I think it is right that the current Prime Minister's energy should, as has already been put forward by colleagues and internationally, not just as tolerance, but on the surface, on the frontline of the country's claims to apply the agreement faithfully and to agree fully to include Northern Macedonia in the accession procedures, because these procedures want a year and you know it very well. I mean, let us consider our northern borders. Let us consider the fact that we already know very well what the neighbouring country is with which we now have no loose ends, but a strong risk to a range of fronts. She had already put her influence in this country. Let us consider the Western Balkans which are the disguise of the European Union's progress towards enlargement in the last one and a half years and the introduction of the Western Balkans into the prospect of the European Union and how this Presidencies' Agreement has resolved this way, this way out for the whole of the Western Balkans. Let us consider a series of economic, political and geopolitical factors, which have been substantially improved over the last year on the basis of this agreement, and let us all put together the possibilities that we have on that side and the elections that will not be called into question, but also make progress for the Balkans and for the good neighbourliness, but also for the people of Northern Macedonia themselves. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to thank you for your tolerance - I would like to say that each of us can be proud of the 'yes' or 'no' that he has said in agreements or any other matter here. It was a very hard period when the majority of the House took the country out of a hostage, from a stagnation, from a complete deadlock, built on the basis of extreme divisive views. In that sense, as I had presided over these meetings, I too am proud of that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u48	I would just like to say something, Mr President. On some points, no one can question what you said, but I think that no one can question the intentions and patriotism of former Prime Minister Antonis Samaras. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] No one can blame him for nationalism. No one can question that he was a patriot and proved his whole course. He is the Prime Minister who saved Greece, kept it in the European Community and in the Eurozone. I therefore think it is unfair to question Antonis Samaras' offer at home.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u49	Mr. President, can I make it clear?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u50	Okay, I just added something. I didn't make any comment. However, in most of your speech you cannot disagree. It was fascinating, alas! But it cannot be a noble Prime Minister, who has offered so much, to hit him now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u51	Wait a minute, Mr. President. No one questioned - and I did not - what you said. After all, he was elected Prime Minister of the Greek people, he is now a MP and has been a MP since his twenty-five years. It completes forty years of MP. We also honour his view, which he has always boldly expressed. But it is the country's politician who, for twenty-five years on this issue, had not only had a wrong view of it, but had worked on it at critical times of political life and brought the country's division and hostage to this deadlock.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u52	Whether it's been divided, it's the story, Mr. President. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Lebanese, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u53	I want a minute's speech on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u54	Wait a minute, 'cause it's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u55	Oh, is it personal?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u56	You're done, Mr. Heta. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u57	You are not President of the New Democracy. You are Vice-President of Parliament and Members of Parliament. For God's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u58	Mr. Heta, I'll speak on staff. I wanted, if you'd excuse me, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u59	This Bureau, but I think the previous Bureau, in its composition as well as President of Kostas Tasulas, does not discriminate against anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u60	I have another point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u61	And we've proved it. And anyone who wants to see you can, please, come to the Conference of Presidents. This is not the moment for controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u62	Is a government representative coming here today? Are they so tired?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u63	Here, Mr Levane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u64	We have been offended, and for one minute I asked for the floor to say that the New Democracy has been moderately in the context of parliamentary and rule of law. I've never been offended. Obviously no offense has arisen during the presidency of Antony Samaras. He has never been identified with extreme powers nor, of course, with extreme logic. But you're making me remind you that the SYRIZA-ANEL front, which you served in previous years, was what was associated in many moments with extreme logic and, above all, in the 2015 referendum. But let us leave all this back, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and let us look ahead all of them together to win the future by healing the wounds of the past and not by taking them out at every opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u65	The President of Parliament has asked for the floor. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u66	I wanted, without wishing to oppress my fellow Members by adding another speech, to clarify the following for my fellow Members, but above all for our audience. Today we are not talking about the Prespecies Agreement. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are not holding a special review or reassessment of the agreement today. This agreement, in spite of the objections raised at the time, - I would remind you that a motion of censure has been made by the New Democracy to overturn, in any case - is in force. And one of the reasons why it has not been heard and must be heard, which Greece is in favour of international agreements and therefore of international law, is that the key historical problem we have with another neighbour from the East, the main, the greatest, our strongest argument is international law. So we cannot be on two counts and two weights. Secondly, this complaint should have not come to plenary, not because it should have been resolved by the Ethics Committee, but because it should have been resolved before. There's a tri-syllable word, which says that the Martian ice before it passes through the Minister of Justice the appeals or complaints against political persons performs some kind of control. This check, as Mr Athanasios said, is obviously not on the sculpture of the complaints or on the form of paper. It is a fundamental check, which is about all the legal arguments which have been reasonably heard by the Constitution and which have been heard about the unacceptable and unfoundedness of this complaint. But that should have happened at a previous stage of the House and not in this House to disagree about whether it should have been done in the Ethics Committee or in the plenary. It had to be done by the Ice Bay Attorney's office. We are at the beginning of a consultation on the effective utilization of the word 'control'. It's just stuff like that. In addition, I would like to say that the mandate received by Members is not an urgent mandate from the voters. It's a free order. What does it mean - I'm talking about future messengers - that? It means that the voter does not take a party's programme and a word for a word to him to implement it. He trusts not only the program but also the judgement of the person he votes for. Do not see this enormous responsibility for the voter in the sense of testimony, namely that the voter is the victim of a free mandate that he gives us, but see it in the sense of charm, which has a huge responsibility which presupposes suffering, so that we can look into what we should vote on. And when we are tortured and exercise the right to free command, trusting not only the written but also the judgement of what we are voting on, then we will not resort to sues if we do not like something that we do not like, but we will see the mirror, and we will say, under the charm of responsibility, that next time we will make better use of this supreme responsibility. We all have to understand that political issues are not solved with sues. They resolve only politically and with a final and final judge the Greek people. I shall close and conclude: We are not discussing the Ambassadors' agreement. We did this in the previous House, and that's where everyone was placed. Secondly, the word 'parliament' is complex and detailed in three words. I will not say this in French, because my continental origin does not favour the French pronunciation. However, I will tell you that these three words from which the word 'parliament' is composed in French are 'Say your opinion'. That is why the parliaments have become, in order to tell the opinions, and that is why, in the Constitution, these opinions have the unlimited right, with the sole reservation of the slandering defamation to which we here in Greece are already champions! But this was not the case. It was a matter of applying the unlimited right of opinion, which no abuse proceedings or last betrayal are entitled to undermine it. I wanted to put this data, as well as the effort that this House is making today, for which I will also inform the House and the Conference of Presidents, in order to activate the concept of control that justice must do in similar cases. Thank you for your patience. We can move on to the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u67	Thank you to the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u68	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u69	No one from the Communist Party spoke. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u70	Mr President, what we had to say about the presidencies' agreement has certainly been said in the voting process. There have been many discussions here, we have, if you like, set out all the parameters of this agreement, which has been made in the context of the European Union and NATO plans. It is a policy that has certainly been implemented. This policy cannot be criminalised. This is our position and we are expressing it in this debate too, because a lot of talk has been made about whether it was right, if not what it was serving from both sides.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u72	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u73	Here you go, Mrs. Bakada.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u74	I will be very brief, Mr President. We consider, as a PARTA25, that there should in no way be criminalisation of the Members' political attitude, and that is why we shall vote against the lifting of immunity from the SYRIZA colleagues. We believe that any responsibility for each politician, each of us, can only be charged to him by the voter in the poll. That is why we shall vote 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u75	It would have been much simpler, Mr President, if we had a party law, but we don't. We shall now proceed to the vote. The system, once we say open for the vote, will be open for at least thirty minutes, since we have a flow of colleagues to vote. We would like to point out that the vote includes two cases of waiver of immunity. Every time on the screen a case appears to be voted on. To show the next or the previous one, you should press the arrow on the top right or left side of the screen respectively. Make sure you have voted on both cases of immunity. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would now ask that the electronic voting system and Members should be opened to vote on the request for waiver. The time is 13:35 ́ and the system will be open until 14:15 ́.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that my fellow Members, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis, Mr Konstantinos Zouraris, Mr Hussein Zambeck, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, Mr Ioannis Burnos and Mr Ethanasiou Karasarlidou, will not be present in today's roll-call vote and they are aware by letter of their intention to vote. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting but are not counted on the electronic counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u78	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u79	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of an electronic roll-call vote on applications for waiver of immunity from Members. A total of 221 Members voted on the first case by Mr Dionysios Hatzidakis. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 214 Members voted. On the question of immunity, 7 Members voted against. 'PARON' voted no one. The request of the Public Prosecutor shall therefore be accepted by a majority. The second case of the fifty-four colleagues and so on. Athanasios Tsilios Athanasios, Ioannis Amanatidis, Athanasia Anagnostopoulou, Evangelos Apostolos, Stavros Arahovitis, Anna Vageias, Socrates Vardakis, Georgiou Vardmenos, Christophoros Vernardakis, Dimitrios Vitsa, Nicolaou Voutsi, Olga Gerovasili, Anastasia, Ioannis Gioulas, Ioannis Drasaki, Theodorou Zebek, Nicosia, Evriou Thrazios, Alexandrous, Medros Kasimatis, Aridos Pantopoulos, Aridoulou Palanos Palanosios, Ioannis Palos, Athanasiotis, Ioannis Palokolou, Ioannis Palos, Ioannislouou, Ioannis Palos Palos, Ioannis Palos, Ioannis Palos Palos Palos Palos Palos, Alasiosiosiosios, Alyannisiosiosiosiosiosios, A. In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 11 Members voted. In other words, 207 Members voted against the lifting of immunity. "PARON" voted 1 Member. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected by a majority. The result of the roll-call vote is recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the minutes of the sittings of Tuesday 11 February 2020, Wednesday 12 February 2020, Thursday 13 February 2020, Friday 14 February 2020, Monday 17 February 2020, Tuesday 18 February 2020, Thursday 20 February 2020 and Friday 21 February 2020 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u81	The minutes of Tuesday 11 February 2020, Wednesday 12 February 2020, Thursday 13 February 2020, Friday 14 February 2020, Monday 17 February 2020, Tuesday 18 February 2020, Thursday 20 February 2020 and Friday 21 February 2020 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-27-S2-commons.u82	(a) Parliamentary control, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
