ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I do not know whether time has been spent in Parliament at this time, but that's all right. A bill has been discussed all night. That's not the point. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House in writing: ‘We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent debate on parliamentary scrutiny on Monday 4 May 2020 that the topical questions to be debated are as follows: The numbers. 632-24-2020, 638/27-2020 and 642/27-4-2020 topical questions will be discussed by the Minister of Finance, Christos Staikos. No. No. 643/27-4-2020 topical question will be answered by the Minister of Justice Mr Konstantinos Tsiras. And the number. Mr Theochari, Minister for Tourism, Mr Theocharis, Mr Theocharis, Mr P. Theocharis, Mr P. Theocharis, Mr P. Stavrou, Mr P. Stavrou, Mr P. Theatre, Mr P. Theatre, Mr P. Theatre, Mr P. Theatre, Mr P. Theatre, Mr P. Theatre, Mr P. Theatre, Mr P. Theatre, Mr P. Theatre, Mr P. Theatre, Mr P. Theatre, Mr P. Theatre, Mr P. So before we begin the topical and urgent debate, I would like to ask Mr Marcus and Mr Katrin a question. Both questions are related to the protection of the main residence. You want to talk about them together?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u2	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u3	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u4	Oh, no. So they'll be discussed separately. So we're starting the conversation. The first question will be discussed under number 638/274/20. Second question by MP B1 North Athens, the Radical Left Coalition, Euklidis Tsakalotou, to the Minister of Finance, on "Medium-Support Measures". Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor for two minutes. It's two or three minutes, the prototypes and three seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u5	With some tolerance, after we've been waiting for so many hours.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u6	For you and the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, this morning I took the decision that there might be a god. Because I also woke up with my second coffee I saw a show at the ERT where a lady who has a shop was in direct response, I think with papers and books and explained in a very nice way, because she is in a difficult position, because she is not being suspended, because she is not being helped by 40% of the rental. And she asked this lady: "But is the Minister expecting me to have a ticking miracle, a super cigarette, which I can pay for what has been suspended?" That is the question and good for the ERT who asked this question. And I'm saying good for ERT, 'cause I'm criticizing. Of course I have to tell you, Mr President, that the journalist, as the lady said, had the look of "oh, my God, I will soon be like Olga Tremmy". Well done to the ERT who showed that. Mr. Stavura, I've given you the evidence of what happened in the middle class at the time before our own government. And there's no need for evidence. When you only know that 25% of GDP fell, is it possible to believe that the devastation of the middle classes took place during the SYRIZA era rather than at your own time? Is it possible to believe it as an economist when this 25% disaster took place? We had a small growth. Of course, the middle layers were jammed. Of course, we wanted to do more, but it was difficult. We did the first steps and you say we destroyed them? And that was your basic story about the middle class. Now what do you have to say to this lady in the morning? What do you have to say to the doctors, the engineers you fooled them with the voucher that you unleashed them - I'd say - with the voucher? What do you have to tell the self-employed? What do you have to say to other micro-enterprises? Now we know and have essentially confessed, no matter how you want to confuse the budgetary deficit. Your net financial intervention is six billion. What you say in Greece, on the fourteenth, on the other hand what you say abroad, on the nine, if we go through loans, suspensions, etc. And what are you trying to say? Get in that lady's seat a little bit. Get in the seat of the self-employed person. Get in the position of all those who come out of the crisis with debts and payments and are desperate. And one last word, Mr President. Tell those who want to get in the middle class, the thousands of people with seasonal work who work six months a year, they make about eleven thousand - out of my head - who, on average, are eight hundred, and now have six months to work and don't work and have no work tomorrow, exactly what they will do. Can you talk to them and tell them what plan you have for the middle class? And don't confuse us with evidence where you mix oranges with apples and you come here to the House and you say any numbers go down to your head. He needs a seriousness. And if you can't answer me, answer the lady, the one she told you this morning, "What are you waiting for? A super cigarette to pay the suspensions and the ones that have taken us back and say that this is budgetary intervention?'
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u8	The Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouras, has the floor. Three minutes are normal, but it'll go on a pro rata. You have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Tsakalotos, because I'm not an elitism characterized by elitism, this part of society I look into in the eyes and I talk to them. And I would like to tell you that if you have seen the measurements of public opinion, I think something good is going on in economic policy within the crisis. However, since I like to talk with data rather than with polls, I will concentrate on this and tell you that we have planned and implemented economic policies without class exclusion - we differ - with particular attention being paid to the lower and medium-income segments, in order to reduce social inequalities. And because I want to answer the core of your question, the middle-class issue, as you know very well, I opened it up in the House, because we need to start talking about the substance and not to be aerated. And indeed, the definition that has been given is the OECD definition, but as I have said in this Chamber, neither do I accept the Ministry, nor do I, as Minister of Finance, accept this definition, as you do, as I see in your question. In any case and aware of the notion of middle-class, which differs considerably from the concept of average income, as the first - you rightly point it out - is formed by other assets and social factors, we assess the facts available and proceed accordingly in policy making, as is the case in the world. You, while invoking your own period, do not go there. So I will speak in my dentistry today, but you will allow me to speak with data on 2015-2018. 52% of the 2018 tax declarations had a family income declared below 8,000 euros and 83% less than 20,000 euros. That's the truth with the official evidence. The zero declarations - what else does anyone have to show the collapse of low and medium-income layers? - increased in 2017 compared to 2014 by 14%. The taxpayers with an income of 20,000 euros up to 70,000 euros have fallen by 12%. The declared total income fell in 2017 compared to 2014 for those who have an income of EUR 20,000 to EUR 70,000 by 1,8 billion. The middle class lost 2 billion euros. And at the same time what increased? The sum of those at low incomes, from EUR 1 000 to EUR 20,000, has increased by EUR 1.3 billion. Should we talk about the lady who has the store you said? In 2015-2017 you taxed it from EUR 200 to EUR 830 and also, between 2015 and 2018, Greece was the only European Union country that presented the smallest per capita increase in real income available. Compared to Europe, we were at 72% of the average European Union in 2014 and in 2018 we were at 69%. So, the lane is opened. These elements together with the reduction in the CSR, together with the reduction in the tax-free threshold, together with the imposition and increase of contributions to health and supplementary pensions, together with the imposition of twenty-nine new taxes, prove a great deal what the previous government has done for the middle-class. Now let's go see what we've done in titles before I get to the health crisis. We have indeed reduced the ENPIA for all citizens. We said we didn't have a class mark. However, we have chosen the reduction in the lower income levels to remain higher. We have reduced the import tax rate for natural persons, i.e. for the lowest layers from 22% to 9%. In particular, therefore, the sum of the reduction in HICP and the reduction in the import tax rate for natural persons is expected to have a reduction in the tax burden for low incomes by 23%, for the middle class by 16% and for the highest incomes by 7%. We reduced the income tax on legal persons from 28% to 24%. This includes all businesses, small, medium and large. And we voted for a tax bill that helps the economic activity of the productive part of society to which the middle class belongs. Indeed, we would like to do more. We would like to have more financial space, to make other policies forward. And we were about to do it until this big health crisis came that we still don't know its extent and depth. Even with this crisis, however, the government has, from the outset, acted with predictability, methodicality, social justice - I will repeat it again in every position - by taking care of all the productive sectors of the economy and its workers. Through the horizontal measures we have taken, however, the low and medium-income areas have benefited more. In my dentistry I will be very specific about the two questions that have been raised as the second section, what are we doing for the lady you said, and what you suggest we do for the lady? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Minister. Mr Eukleidis Tsakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u11	I don't know if the justice you've shown was more fair to the engineers and architects or to the owners of the CECs. You're going to tell us that. That was your justice. But I do not yet know how an economist might claim to a university and really say in front of a student seminar "see, we had an economy that for four years fell to 26% of GDP, then we had an economy that increased 2-3% and the destruction of middle classes took place in the second case". He wants a lot of work. If you do this you will also have a post in "AMERICAN ECONOMIC REVIEW" which is perhaps the most prestigious magazine in our industry. Because that's what you told us. You come here as an economist and say "It's okay in the four years that it fell 25%. That lady was fine. This lady was destroyed in SYRIZA’. And you didn't tell us anything about the size of the intervention. Because we're not talking about justice. As far as justice is concerned, I do not need to argue about who you want to help. You didn't answer those thousands of children aged twenty-thirty-two who are always cutting them out of the middle class, now starting the season that would work and have eaten all the money they collected last summer. Because justice wants you to do something for them too. Didn't you tell us, is it 6 billion the net financial part of your intervention, if we forget about loans, suspensions and all that? And that's enough? In other words, you consider that you are compared with all the other European countries in the clean.... And don't start with what you're writing in your post, that's what Europe is counting. I'm talking as an economist. How much is the net budgetary intervention that does not include suspensions or loans? How much is it that you say it's 9 billion dollars? When you're abroad, you say 14 billion and the Prime Minister and it's 6 billion. Do you think that this lady and all these businesses and workers with the EUR 500 will now go into the market and spend? Are they going to invest? You haven't understood the economic logic of taking action either. Because you haven't answered me. I've given you so many opportunities to explain why you think you're wrong to do more at first so that the recession doesn't fall. It's time for the middle class in which you promised so much and much that you fooled them, to tell them what plan you've got. How are they going to get into the recovery? I expect to hear, because in your first speech you said absolutely nothing. At first, for the first thirty-five minutes, I thought your partners were wrong and gave you the budget documentation so many months ago, because that is why you spoke. You spoke as if you had the document on the budget before you. It's about time now. You now have responsibility for the middle layers, for those you promised so little, and you've done so little.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u12	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I answer your question. If you don't remember what you've asked, it's not my fault. You guys are backing me up in the past. You refer to definitions of middle class and what happened in 2014 and 2018. So I answered the first part.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u14	You've responded wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u15	Two...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u16	Not as an economist.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u17	Secondly, you will allow me to tell you that the value of each economist is judged by the hetero references. Check them out.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u18	It was 26%. That is not what you have analysed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u19	There are hetero references in the academic area. If you want, enter and search and compare. Third point. For the first time I have seen former Minister of Finance speak of the middle-class, which is the only Memorandum of Understanding that has cut tax-free. You're talking about the middle-class, and you're the only Minister of Finance in the year of the memorandum that you cut the tax-free, and thankfully you didn't cut it second time. And you're talking about the middle class! Third answer. The response of the middle-class to elitism, Mr. Chakaloto, is modesty. Responsibility for irresponsibility is the arguments and the response of seriousness to dull intelligence is documentation. I shall, therefore, continue to express myself in Parliament with modesty, having substantiated arguments, without inflicting tendencies, extinguishing insults and unparalleled scientific and political aberrations. I understand - and I have already told you - your ideological confusion and your political triumph. But we will continue with responsibility and seriousness, with a sense of law and solidarity, without a squeeze, to get the country out of the crisis. So what do we do? Ten things that you should've known if you'd searched the A.D. evidence and contacted the A.D.A.'s. Firstly, we granted exceptional financial support of EUR 800 to employees. EUR 800 was given to all employees, all the same amount, thus supporting who? Mostly the weaker ones. The weaker are more favorable. So we are doing exactly the opposite of what you and at the same time fully covered their insurance contributions on the nominal salary. If it is taken into account, therefore, that according to the latest available data available, the average gross wage of private sector employees in full and part-time employment is significantly less than EUR 1,000, then it is understood that the support we have given is even more important for low and middle incomes, as in most cases, 800 euros exceed, cover or cover their wages to a large extent. So many employees, mostly parttime, got a higher salary and they all got the same. This is a characteristic of this government in contrast to yours. Secondly, we have provided exceptional financial assistance of EUR 800 to free professionals and EUR 600 to scientists for a month, which covers - also if you were looking for the evidence, you would find it to a large extent the average income they have declared. If you look at the statements, you will understand that many overcame the vast majority of them. Look at the elements of the ADP. Do, if you like, ask the ADP to see if 600 and 800 are overreacting enough. The aid and the other support measures adopted lead to a total benefit of more than 1/12 of the one you proposed. You suggested a 1/12. Check out the data and you'll see that the 600 and 800 euros for free professionals and some scientists are a bigger amount. So, attention! Thirdly, we paid Easter to a hundred and fourteen thousand of our countrymen in the field of health and civil protection, who, as you know, are not only doctors, they are also workers in the EAW, are many of our other low income compatriots. Therefore, this government paid particular attention to low incomes when others cut their tax free. Fourthly, we have given the possibility of suspending payments, of certified debts, of tax and insurance, for all the companies affected so far and of professionals, and have accelerated the reimbursement of VAT and income to up to 30,000 for each taxpayer. Here's another liquidity aid to small businesses. Fifth, we have ensured, in consultation with the banks, the possibility of suspending the payment of the debt obligations of these citizens, the middle class, among other things, until the end of September...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u20	Is that an answer to the lady? That doesn't help her. The lady said that won't help her because she doesn't have super cigarettes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u21	I've already answered. I haven't interrupted you...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u22	Yeah, but you're not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u23	I'm not interrupting anyone, but, Minister, please, if I may...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u24	You've already been talking three times more than I do, but you're not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u25	I've already answered...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u26	How have you answered?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u27	That's good, but that's not the way to talk. Minister, please speed up...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u28	I'm gonna need three more minutes to finish the last part.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u29	If it's got three minutes, I'll have two more.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u30	Wait a minute, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u31	I know that in the Greek Parliament, 13 years I have been here, I respect the President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u32	Mr Chakalotos fully respects me, you have no doubt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u33	Let me finish, though. I've been interrupted three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u34	I interrupted to the fifth point.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u35	I'll let you finish, but please because you said ten points and I imagine you have ten points and you've said five...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u36	I have three answers for the last part. It's very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u37	I'll give you another minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u38	In any case, a minute and a half already speaks to me. I'd like my time to answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u39	You don't have ten times more!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u40	First of all, I respect you and speak to the plural.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u41	Let me keep the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u42	The Native Out of Sports...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u43	You're not answering the lady. Because what the lady said is that it doesn't help her.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u44	I will answer and you know I answer society because I have no elitism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u45	Good, but it's a conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u46	Eliteism is to speak five times more than the other one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u47	Can I finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u48	I ask the president, does he have ten times more time than I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u49	Go ahead and address both of you to the Bureau. Please, Mr. Stakoura, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u50	We're prolonging the existing...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u51	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u52	Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u53	I'm calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u54	We are prolonging the existing first home protection law - and I will come back later - and we are launching a new loan support programme, and if it is for the first residence. We are implementing entrepreneurship stimulus projects with the repayable advance. Next week ninety thousand businesses, including the lady, if she has submitted, will take from 2,000, 4,000, 8,000, 15,000 euros, depending on their size, and that is the middle class. We've got a 40% discount on the rent that the lady can pay. We banned redundancies during the crisis and launched emergency aid to sixty-three thousand ninety households, who already receive the minimum guaranteed income. Therefore, the state in front has undertaken in the context of its cash possibilities to help the whole economy, as it had a duty since the crisis. Low and medium-incomes, very small medium-sized enterprises are at the core of the benefits of this economic policy. But you will allow me, Mr President, to refer to the last part of the question concerning the SYRIZA proposal, because you are asking me. Resumption of the Thessaloniki programme. Three points with the corresponding Minutes. First of all, the financial cost...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, what is the ratio between what he is asking and what he is answering?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u56	It's your last question. It's your question, if you don't remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u57	Yeah, but sometimes you have to finish...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u58	Let me ask you more questions!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Chaakalato, let me go. Finish, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u60	The financial costs of the SYRIZA measures are EUR 114 million. This cost, along with the inhibitions you pass over, is another 12 million, at least in the next two months. The inhibitions you're saying and overtaken, who's gonna pay for them? When the other person does not pay tax, how will the pension be paid in April? Somebody's got to put your hand in the pocket, and they're coming for cash to put their hand on it. Therefore, the cost of the measures will be EUR 26 billion. With EUR 26 billion you are taking us directly to the European Support Facility and directly to the Memorandums. We will avoid that. Second, how complete our plan is...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u61	If there's a second and a third...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u62	I'll be done. Secondly, how complete your plan is is from Mr Tsipras' statements after the announcement of your programme, both here and outside. I make new proposals in the Minutes after a new one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u63	I'm sorry, Mr. Stakoura, I'm going to intervene now. I cannot imagine Mr Tsakalotos asking you what you think of the SYRIZA programme. Did he ask you that?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u64	Yes, of course! There's it in the question. I am precise in the question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u65	Yes, but you didn't answer the question and the denology at all...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u66	No, you're wrong. It's in protology, too. He's talking about the past. I've answered the question exactly. Third and I'll be done. SYRIZA makes an arbitrary assumption that the profits from ANFAs and SMPs, 3.5 billion euros, will all come forward. But he has signed it - and I shall submit it to the Minutes - that they will come by 2022 on terms and conditions. So we are taking 24 billion euros to limit a recession which we estimate will initially move from 10% to 13% and with these measures we will eventually be from 4.7% to 8%. The initial downturn of 10% to 13.2% and the provision of EUR 24 billion from 4.7% to 9.8% and that is what we tabled last Thursday before Mr Tsakalots asked a question about these measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u67	The first phase is completed. We will all discuss this again, and the reality is the one that will come to us anyway and judge. We are going, in the first under number 632-24-2020, to ask the first question of the Achaias MP in the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Annulment of the main residence protection and a deduction of the debtors from its protective framework". Mr. Marcus, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u68	Tolerant, Mr President. Thank you, very much. Well, Minister, the question that we are finally discussing today has been tabled long before the outbreak of the health crisis, and so I would ask you not to have the same argument, I would say, with Mr Tsakalotos about what he says. We left it as it had been tabled for three months to show how you have been late in dealing with the issue and to show how time really is money, which the Greek people pay for. After repeated postponements and I would remind you that you have rejected two of SYRIZA's amendments - you had this micropsy - we are coming now. I said, therefore, that this emerges to see the consistency of SYRIZA in the protection of highly indebted households and in the opposite how dangerous and irresponsible your perception is. The decades of crisis that we are deceiving are the result of the borrowers being able to meet the requirements of the solvency for the loan and the next day to overthrow them in such a way that they are shocking their living standards for reasons outside their own concern and cannot deal with them. This weakness is disastrous, both for the economy itself and for the banks. It is well documented that the return of a highly indebted household to economic life, on the one hand, stimulates demand and works beneficially for the way the economy operates, on the other hand, to regulate its debts in a sustainable manner, prevents banks from new crisis situations. Before the outbreak of the crisis, your government was not convinced of the above. We had heard from your top executives that regulating the debts of natural persons is an anti-development measure. The late Minister of Development had said immediately after Christmas that on 1 May house arrests began "to keep our hearts out." The juncture of the crisis we are experiencing now confirms our worst fears of your operations. We are living at a time of chaotic behavior of the economy, money markets, the environment, collective health and our own lives. This constant uncertainty is sufficient and necessary in our view that the main residence must be protected without any other, unnecessarily. The framework and conditions can become the subject of discussion, dialogue, controversy and even change within time. You know better than me that the reasons that forced you to prolong the existing regime will not have elapsed in three months, which is why we proposed by the end of 2020. Here I would like to point out your annoyance that it has arrived twenty-four hours before the expiry of the existing regime to announce the extension. You didn't have the elementary sensitivity to feeling people's pain. The recession led by the Greek economy will last much longer and society will be tested as ever. At the same time, it is necessary for banks to also supply households with loans that can now serve to stimulate the market. However, once the precariousness touches everyone, there should be the possibility of a sustainable solution for all. To have not properly dealt with the indebted in terms of business, as predetermined by bankruptcy law, is anti-development, anti-Scientific, anti-Scientific, anti-Solidian and treats human lives as economic units that can erase and reboot. The leaks are awkward that their integration into the Banking Code in the future may be accompanied by the retention of ownership of their main residence and the repayment of a rental as against the instalments of their loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Marcus, hold some for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u70	I'm done. It turns us far behind, before the industrial revolution, in the slavery, when the property was a privilege either of the Church or of every feudal ruler.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u71	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u72	Mr Katrin, I am sorry and thank you very much for the intention you originally had to discuss. He didn't want my colleague. I'm gonna have a little trouble right now, 'cause it's exactly the same questions. I'll try not to overlap.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u73	However, they are not the same, Minister. You'll understand it from the contents.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u74	You said something about auctions and statements by New Democracy officials. I am tabling in the minutes of 30 November 2017 statements by Euclid Tsakalotos: ‘Electronic auctions are important for development and social reasons’. I'm filing it in the Minutes. A few words and clear words. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to the first place. Since 2010, adopted by Law 3869/2010, there was judicial protection of first residence. There's no today. This was repealed on 28 February 2019 by the previous government. So we'll make it clear. Legal protection of first residence was abolished by SYRIZA on 28 February 2019. Since April 2019, the property of the first residence has been protected by Law 4605/2019 that SYRIZA voted for, supported by New Democracy and improved by those who had applied for up to 28 February 2019 in the 2010 Law on the settlement of debts of the indebted households. That's the truth. The existing law on the protection of first residence was adopted on 1 April 2019. And since when is it being implemented? Since July 2019. This law protects who? It protects the first residence for those who had a red loan until December 31, 2018. So you asked the government to legislate to extend the first home protection until the end of the year only for these citizens until 31-12-2018. Ignore 2019, ignore 2020, ignore all those affected by the coronary. Your location is interesting. When did this law end? It ended with a previous government decision on 31-12-2019. Details: The law of SYRIZA, the European Commission's communication of enhanced supervision and statement, the European Commission's statement. To keep some from saying that it was blurred and there could be an extension. No extensions. It's all over at the end of 2019. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The current government has extended the existing framework for another four months and is now extending it for all three months. So, to call it math, six months you, seven months, to use some of these comparisons. However, despite the many important improvements made to the law brought by SYRIZA, and we improved, a large part of our compatriots does not enter into regulation. I'll give some details, as I usually do. Three thousand percent of ninety eight citizens applied for access to the platform by potentially ninety thousand rightholders. We are talking for three thousand hundred ninety-eight from July 2019 to March 2020. Of these - they are within the figures - a thousand and twenty-eight have been submitted by the banks to the borrowers - of course they were four hundred at the end of 2019, so there is an improvement - and all these proposals have had a 50% subsidy for the loan by the State. Of these proposals, eight hundred thirty have been received by borrowers from the ninety thousand potential statements which could be made by the end of April. That's why we've been waiting for the last day. This is the law that you brought with the improvements that we made here, in this Chamber and with other parties. The average value of main residence - it is interesting to discuss this issue - has more interesting elements below - which is protected amounts to 80,000 euros. The average state subsidy rate for these few citizens is 37% of the monthly instalment and the average debt write-off rate is 21% of the credit claims settled. Mr President, I am finishing my prototype in thirty seconds. So what happened? Our first residence through the platform was only eight hundred and thirty of our compatriots. In the same period, from July 2019 to March 2020, two hundred thousand loans were bilaterally settled by the citizens with banks and fund managers. We are talking about about 11 billion euros. In fact, 90% of them are bilateral. Of all these two hundred ten thousand, seventy thousand are housing loans - see, seventy thousand housing loans were bilaterally arranged - and eight hundred thirty via the platform, of which forty-five thousand relate to mortgage loans or additions to the main home. In addition, it should be stressed that the total number of loans settled by the debt management companies had been written off to eight of the ten loans. So, I also submit to the Minutes all this, so you know exactly what has happened from July 2019 to April 2020 for the protection of first residence and in my denture, I will explain what we have done to extend the existing framework and bring in another regime. [[At this point, Minister for Finance, Christos Stakouris presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u75	Here, Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, since we are speaking rationally and you say that you are in this category of people of rationalism, I would like to note that from 7-7-2019 SYRIZA is no longer government and, of course, you cannot bring any arguments why it was until December 2018 and why it was not under cover. If SYRIZA had continued, you'd have seen what it would have been. Therefore, rationally you cannot speak and say "until December 2018". Now I am going to talk about something, because I want to speak at the heart of the whole process. The uncertainty that exists and the recession in the course of the economy require you to prepare for the further expansion of a strong protectionist regime, if not its consolidation. You and society will be found in unpleasant surprises. The date of the extension you have given is not far from here and it looks like the vote of the new bankruptcy code. The uncertainty, however, as I said, must give you a push at the moment. Now, because at times we have had postponements to the debate, they have the reason that you have been in constant contact with the institutions. That's real. However, the arguments which can force the institutions to do so - here is the political will - do not have them, but we can allow you to draw them from our patronage. Does it not tell you anything that when the Katseli Act was introduced for the debts of small and medium-sized enterprises, the banks were again opposing, because the regulation and the whole restructuring was made without their involvement? On the contrary, the business world supported both bills. The representatives of the lenders did not object, especially after the intervention of the European Central Bank. This is why the protection framework for the overdue households was incorporated as a prerequisite for the first memorandum. Ten years later, the attitude of the banks proved extremely short-sighted. You know very well that many European countries individually regulate urbanity with commercial insolvency. Recently, the Association of Legal Protection Consumer, eminent scientists, set out the entire European Charter on Prevention in this matter. Let me say something else very important, Minister. A very well-known and serious economic study carried out on the basis of the documents applied for protection in the USA from 1993-2005 concludes that in the five years following the application, for the debtors who had been regulated their application was accepted. In other words, their income has increased by 25%, employment by 8% and - something even more substantial, outside the numbers of economists - their mortality has fallen by 30%. The European Union directive on bankruptcy law enables Member States to dictate natural persons to do so as well. I'm talking about a possibility. He doesn't oblige them. And you're going to go get it in the bankruptcy law. If you run all the pages of the directive, you will see that it speaks of business and business. He's not talking about natural persons anywhere. In the regulations of bankruptcy law, the narrow accounting concept prevails, but there is nothing to do with the bankruptcy of a company by overcompensating a natural person. What does this have to do with a man who suddenly stays out of work? As far as your announcements are concerned - I will not be late, Mr President - for the Broadcasting Bridge for Natural Persons, a subsidy from the State without seeming, I would say, that there will be criteria too, one can see that this is a recapitalised form of bank recapitalisation. Here we have the taxpayer, the state that will give the premium, the silver, the waitress and the groom, the banks, nothing! This causes creepy. Finally, you spoke of social justice. I respect your sensitivity, but we need care and resources from the state, Minister, for there to be. Unless it is such your submission to the sovereign banking and state interests in Europe, and it is such your ideological insistence to be a multinational neoliberal force that attacks society and treats it as an asset. The well-known banker Rochild said "When blood runs on the streets, then it's a chance to make money". So we have a logic of Rochschild and a logic, ours, which says that the interests of society are distinct from the intact interests, both domestic and international. I'm afraid you're on Rochild's logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u78	I must admit that I did not understand the principle, the middle and the end of your position. It was a mix of different locations. Now, about who is with, I submitted to the Minutes Mr Tsakalotou's position and what he says about the banks, namely that it is good for the banks that the auctions are good for the banks. And you're talking about me? Don't you agree with each other first? One second remark...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u79	With Mr. Georgiadis, you come to an understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u80	You said if we're here to answer. I would like to tell you that when I was on those benches and asked questions to the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, the then Deputy Minister of Finance did not appear from January 2017 until December 2019. He never came to the room. And you're talking about us? A appearance he didn't make in the House! He never answered a question, Congressman! Never! Never! What do we do now? You said why I spoke about 2018. But you don't know what you've voted for? You then voted for the protection of the first residence - and we rightly supported it - for those who have a loan linked to the first residence until 31 December 2018. And that's what you're asking for. Ignore those who are red in 2019, those who are red in 2020 and obviously ignore the green people, the informants, whom we all tell in this Chamber that we must sometime, sometime, the Greek state reward for their consistency. And we come for the first time to reward consistency and you are now against it. But I will insist that we close the first section, because our position must be coherent, and I will return to the new figure in the next question. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Stavouras, presents for the Minutes the relevant progress report on the question of overcompensation for households, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance took this shape and continues to face the effort that we inherited not only from you and from the past. Private debt was not created on your day, it was giggled over your days, but it was also created in previous years by previous governments too. That's the truth. Citizens' income has decreased and private debt has increased. We have therefore inherited a major problem of the last decade and we are going to deal with it responsibly, with methodicality and seriousness, and we are seeing the evidence. The aim is to protect vulnerable households without using the favourable framework by strategic malpractices and at the same time we are trying to maintain the necessary culture of payments. We must keep it the culture of payments in this country, which must not only be maintained, but also strengthened. In this context, therefore, taking into account that because of the health crisis our compatriots may be unable to implement the application procedures in this context, which we had in previous months, the Government incorporated in the act of legislative content that we submitted to Parliament yesterday, dated 1 May 2020, a provision extending the existing framework until the end of July. The original duration you had for the law, the six months, after the improvements that we made and you voted - it is a fact - in the second half of 2019 is extended for seven months. The Government of New Democracy comes in and extends the framework that you have set up for six months for another seven months to give a last chance to exploit it despite the failure of the scheme to date - I gave you every month's data, week to see how it goes - to those who want it. But we didn't just stay there. We have also done the second one that you have passed - you have raised it at the end a little - and I will develop it in the following question. We are launching and implementing a new programme for the protection of borrowers not only by the end of 2019, but also by the end of 2019, but also by reds after 1-1-2019 and, in particular, green loans, as regards those who have always been consistent with their obligations and now because of the health crisis they may find themselves in weakness. For the first time the Greek state comes and supports and rewards their consistency. That is what we will do because what we promise we stick to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u81	Thank you. We continue with the second with the number 642/27-2-2020 topical question of the second question of the Eleanor of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Protection of the first residence is a matter of banks and institutions'. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I imagine you agree that the foundation of a modern social state is the restoration of living and the reintegration of our weakest people into economic and social life. You know very well that in Article 21(4) of the Constitution there is special mention of the main residence, as you remember very well that the PASOK in 2010 by Law 3869 protected the main residence and introduced the institution of individual bankruptcy in the country. It is a law that was also frustrated and abused in previous years and which SYRIZA had not voted in 2010. To remember all this. So, because this law changed from SYRIZA in 2019, as you rightly said before, we tabled an amendment in November 2019 that you did not accept, and on 22 April 2020 we also tabled an amendment that was not acceptable and asked for the provisions of 3869 and a number of other provisions that were favourable, in which the criteria of Law 4605 were extended, so that it would actually be effective for weak borrowers. And not just that. We have tabled an official proposal to the President of Parliament, because we believe that the protection of first residence is a serious social issue, as is the bankruptcy code, for the establishment of a intergroup committee involving parties, social and scientific bodies, which will deal with this issue. All parties replied in writing that they agreed, except for the New Democracy. At the same time that the New Democracy does not agree to become a cross-party, we learn that you are discussing with the banks and institutions a new Banking Code that in practice turns the owners into tenants and abolishes the concept of the protection of the first residence, because only in very few cases is provided for and only when there is a consensus of 60% of creditors, that is, banks. This is the reality and you insist on Law 4605/2019. The Prime Minister himself was rather misled because if he had the opportunity to get himself on the platform to see the terms and conditions on which one might apply, he would not say from the Step of the House three days ago that he applied only three thousand hundred ninety-eight but would say that they were eligible by the platform, which is very difficult, only three thousand-eight applications. Furthermore, Minister, on 4 March you wrote to the banks and the funds asking why these proposals are not accepted. This is a platform through which only eight hundred proposals have been made, more than fifty thousand people have entered and consented to the lifting of tax and banking secrecy, according to the latest data we have, Minister, because no data are available on the platform of the private debt management Special Secretariat, and I do not know why. So you have introduced three months of protection on the basis of SYRIZA's proposal in this failed law, as you have just said, and we agree. Of course, Minister, you left the country without first-hand protection for one whole day - on 1 May 2020, when you legislated at dawn on 2 May on the extension of protection, on May 2020, the country, after ten years, was only left for one day without first-stage protection - and you have made some general announcements about a programme - a bridge with loans. On the question of bank charges, which is the second question, we have tabled too many questions. Because of the apparent increase in the use of electronic transactions on 13 March and on 30 March we tabled a question and the banks themselves testify to an increase of 25% to 30% of the charges. At the same time as the Association of Greek Banks announces that the payments of ATMs will only be made electronically and only through ATMs, urging the use of debit cards and credit cards only one bank gave the possibility for free payment of telephone calls and frozen the charge for the re-issuance of a debit card, while only one bank - and I will say its name, the Cooperative Bank of Chania - announced a fee freeze for electronic transactions between 15 April and 15 May. On this basis, two questions: When will the new Banking Code, which we do not discuss in this House, be implemented, but are you discussing it with the banks and institutions and how many and exactly who borrowers will be involved in the GEOFHY programme? That is the first question. The second crucial question is this: will you be suspended by law by the auctions by the end of 2020? Because we know that the institutions are asking for for forty thousand auctions. By law, not by a moratorium with the banks. Will you do it? At the same time, will you reduce the huge charges on electronic transactions, or will you leave them, as I imagine the Greek Banks Association is asking? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u84	Colleague, if you had seen the press release on March 5, 2020, on the twenty-seven pages, I have detailed information on the point as political leadership of the Ministry of Finance with the Special Secretariat to send thirty thousand sixty-four e-mails to the borrowers to ask them why they do not go ahead with the process and the ninety-five responded. I also want to tell you that the overwhelming majority refuses to withdraw confidentiality. At the same time, however, he goes to the banks and bilaterally regulates his loan. So we have tried to see a total response to private debt over the past period and you know very well that I have given publicity, and I have very many examples of specific citizens, without obviously their names, to make sure that the banks actually make haircuts for the benefit of society. This does not mean that the process does not need to be improved. So what did I close in the first section? I closed my position on what the existing scheme is and what we do in the existing scheme for another three months, and I said that I will now speak, in my second language, about the bankruptcy code you said. But now I should also close the part of the borrower support programme. It is a programme that we have essentially agreed with the institutions, despite the fact that no one here has proposed something about it. All parties have only proposed extending the existing framework and no one has proposed helping the citizens affected by the coronary crisis. Nobody! Nobody asked. And this government has come and will legislate for the next time specific forecasts for coronary infections. In this programme, the State will grant a significant part of the monthly instalments of the effect of the coronary. You will see at the beginning very high rates especially for green borrowers, but those with mortgage loans the first home and affected by the coronary. It covers all red loans, those created before 31-12-2018. That is what all the parties have been interested in so far. We cover this programme and the red loans after 1-1-2019 to date and cover all the green loans created in the health crisis, provided that there are specific income and assets criteria which will be the same or better of the existing framework. Especially for green borrowers can be even better. At the same time, it puts security margins in order to prevent the strategic poor payers from taking advantage of the subsidy. The State, therefore, with concrete and insightal initiatives, takes up a large part of the obligations of borrowers affected by the coronary pandemic for a period of time. With the new programme in the midst of this pandemic, in addition to extending the existing framework - so one does not come to cancel the other - we have a new scheme to help citizens. What do we achieve? I'm telling them in titles to be clear. First of all, for the first time in Greece, consistent borrowers with serviced loans are being strengthened, but have been affected by the pandemic. Secondly, all borrowers affected by the health crisis are supported and have a red loan even after the end of 2018. Thirdly, the culture of payments is growing. Fourthly, it prevents the use of the new framework by strategic malpractices. Fifthly, the risk of creating a new generation of red loans in the banking system is limited. Sixthly, social cohesion is being strengthened. Seven, multiple borrowers are covered in relation to the existing framework. I have no exact number to tell you, and I want to be honest because I don't have to tell you. Because, looking into the archives of the Ministry of Finance and looking for information from Parliament, when we had the debate on the framework for the protection of first residence, I saw in the minutes that Mr Drasakis had said that this framework covers a hundred and fifty thousand borrowers. I have the Minutes: one hundred and fifty thousand had said to the House. Speaking to the banks, I found out that at the end it was ninety thousand. It doesn't mean it's Mr. Drasakis' fault. It's very difficult to determine the perimeter. So today we are trying to see what the perimeter is that we will cover. It will, however, be multiples of the existing framework for protecting the first residence. In any case, this shape I have told you is complementary. There is an extension for three months for the protection framework already in existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u85	Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u86	Minister, I will begin with the second question I have asked about bank charges, because you did not say anything in your prototype. I really know - and I respect - that you have a lot of workload and many obligations and I did not want to blame you on that question. I would like to ask you and your colleague, Mr Georgiadis, because on 31 October Mr Georgiadis had answered the same question in Parliament, saying that he has an institutional influence on the banks. The next day at a TV station, he said bank charges were frozen and bank cuts are coming. The day after, again on television, he said there would be further reductions in November. On 2 January he said, on the occasion of a debit made by a bank, that it was a mistake that will not be made again, to reach 2 April in this Chamber, in response to Mr Kaklamani, to say that the charges for electronic transactions and the same night on a television station are small and that it disagrees with the suspension of charges for two to three months and that the bank charges are the lowest in the eurozone. So while the Minister for Development says that much about the issue of bank debts, the same day in my question of 30 March - and I shall put it in the Minutes - he answers to the Members of the Change Movement that the questions which I have raised about bank debt evade the powers of the Ministry of Development and Investment and the Ministry of Finance are the responsibility to answer them. Mr. Georgiadis says the same day in Parliament that alpha and channels say the beta, supporting charges, officially answers that you are the Minister responsible for answering the question and that is why I addressed you and charged you with that question. Second, you said something before. You will allow me to tell you that he is untrue. Obviously, because of the workload you have not read the amendment we tabled on 22 April. In Article 3, after we propose reintroducing Law 3869, after we propose the right of option of purchasing the loan by borrowers before going to management companies, since we propose the protection of farmers, part of rural land, in the last article we say in 4605, where we propose extending the criteria, because it is ineffective, as you said, 'the phrase that says'replaces the date of 31 March 2020', that is to say, that those who have debts up to 31 March 2020 should be subject to this law. So you're not the only one who's interested in and cared for the borrowers after 1-1-2019. I don't know if I understood it correctly, but are you saying that since we have ninety thousand beneficiaries and three thousand two hundred applications, do you claim that the remaining eighty-seven thousand are strategic bad-payers? If so, say directly in this Chamber that the remaining eighty - seven thousand who have not applied for are strategic bad payers. I understand that from what you say, Minister. You're talking about the arrangements of the banks, about the two thousand regulations made by banks and funds, regulating almost 11.5 billion out of 90 non-performing, when the platform set 19 billion out of 90 billion euros, but you're not saying that the two of the three regulated are in the limits of the "blocking" within a quarter, are you? Of course you do not say what comes out of the new situation, namely that according to valid rating houses 6 to 10 billion extra red loans are expected in the next two years. It also confirms BLOOMBERG today that thousands of our fellow citizens will lose their jobs or be paid less. That is what BSE is saying today. We will have the highest unemployment rate since 2010. This is the situation in which we are having the debate. You're not saying there's a thousand payment orders ready. If I read Mr Chiara's interview well, since the first June when the courts start, we will also have enforcement measures, with what this entails. For cheating, I would ask you not to speak on our side because with Minister Hatzidakis in 2013 and with Law 4161 instead of the court deciding to subject Law 3869 in objective terms, with a simple application, with a law brought by the New Democracy, it could have protection without conditions and restrictions. Now, what do we want? We want a bankruptcy code that ensures the protection of those who really need it, Mr Minister, and of course it will also provide broad information on the persons who are seeking to join the creditors. We insist on our proposal for a cross-party committee. We will enter into dialogue with professional, social and scientific bodies to formulate such a proposal. Of course there are general announcements - you said here that you do not have the exact number - of thousands of borrowers entitled to a loan subsidy. I do not know how many of these available resources are and what finally and how many will be involved in the loan subsidy. I don't even know your goal. A percentage will be the protection of the informant borrower, because you know very well, Minister, that a lender consistently, whose economic conditions are changing because of force majeure, under the Code of Conduct of Banks, is obliged by the banks to regulate him. You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u87	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u88	In any case, however, it is positive to support consistent borrowers. Guarantee liquidity on the banks and 80% of the loans given, when you know very well that they create insurmountable obstacles to businesses. That is why you and the top bankers are meeting tomorrow. An appeal is to put rules not only on liquidity, but also on how there will be first home protection. To have this social right and not to be a question of decision by banks alone, as I fear, Minister, that you are driving the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u89	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u90	Mr Colleague, I have never left any suggestions that those who do not make use of the platform are strategic malpractices. Besides, if you have followed my position, I have tried to combine the non-participation of the citizens on the platform with the two hundred thousand borrowers who have bilaterally arranged with the banks. We wanted to see if any citizens choose direct contact with banks or managers, because haircuts may be better. And what did we do the previous period for the first time? Month-months, we've been tracking the evidence. I would therefore like to tell you that, for example, in the second half of 2019, only twenty thousand five hundred ninety-three loans were arranged with the demand management companies. Of these, three out of four had a debt haircut and a significant debt haircut. 98% of them were housing or consumer and they also had debt write-offs. We have looked for the same thing to see what is going on in the first two months of 2020. So, what should be the target of a state? To facilitate citizens, especially vulnerable households, and to dismantle the strategic poor payers. What we are doing from July 2019 until the coronary crisis and over the last few days is to push banks and managers to try to offer the best of citizens. The best may be a debt arrangement, it may be a suspension for six months, as was done for the information loans, may be - as you rightly ask your question - the election of debts for electronic transactions. So we are talking about all this with the banks. On the issue now of the first residence and the new bankruptcy law, a number of additional remarks we are dealing with with with the co-legislator, Minister of Justice, Mr Chiara: As we said - and you have said - the protection of the first residence expired in February 2019 by judicial means from the previous government. To date, tens of thousands of cases have been left pending as a result of the pacification of the pacifist courts throughout the territory. A large number of cases are dismissed when they arrive at the court or because the citizen is not eligible or because it is found that he has no financial weakness. Strategic mispaids at the end of the procedure do not gain first home protection, but earn time without paying, due to delays in the courts. You know these come from the laws of the past that you invoked. So it ends up being a scheme that not only helps vulnerable households, as many others try to exploit it, and that is a law that comes from the past that you invoke. This is social injustice, so that we can all make our self-criticism. I would expect you to do the self-criticism for a law to which thousands of strategic bad payers have accumulated. Although the protection ended for fourteen months, even before the start of the coronary, applications were continued. That proves the degree of abuse. Soon we will also treat this pathogen by introducing legislative improvements, and by proposing and reforming the reinforcement of the courts - the expedited minister will be one of the main objectives of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. In this context, it was already planned before the start of the health crisis to adopt a new institutional framework for debt regulation. This new framework is intended to replace all the many, individual debt-regulation tools that are currently in existence and will include some essential objectives, the possibility to regulate and restructure debts by respecting which the borrower will be able to save his or her assets, the possibility of providing a second chance for borrowers who are unable to serve their debts, the possibility of bankruptcy and the provision of a second chance to natural persons, in addition to legal, welfare for borrowers belonging to vulnerable social groups, but also of providing for the identification of strategic misappropriators and the consequences for them. Through this chain of solidarity we will, I believe, give all together, coordinates and decisively, with determination and confidence in our forces, the great, common battle to overcome the effects of the pandemic and the relaunch of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Minister. As you can see, we have missed parliamentary dialogue and I leave it to it. The third question under number 643/27-4-2020 will be discussed in the second question of the Athens Western Sector of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantias) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Justice on the subject: "The reopening of our courts, mortgage offices and property offices without any protection. Mr Tsiaras will answer the topical and urgent question by the Minister for Justice. Mrs. Giannakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, after the exceptional traffic restriction measures have been taken, where the vast majority of Greek citizens have fully complied with, it is now time for their gradual removal. However, even a gradual return to the daily lives of the citizens requires that emergency and increased health protection measures be taken so that all our great efforts are not lost. We did good. However, we must not be reassured. The coroner's here. We certainly have confidence in Greek scientists and their instructions. However, they themselves have said that this whole process is a risk, that it is a risk. It is therefore a question of whether the necessary measures will be taken in practice to protect the public. In this context, Minister, the Ministry of Justice surprised the legal sector with the announcement, some time ago, of the partial reopening of the courts, without substantial preparatory measures, without a specific qualitative and quantitative timetable and, I think, the most important of all - prior consultation with the relevant and relevant bodies. In fact, it is a sense, Minister, that all this move has become a priority, so that only those cases relating to the facilitation of banks can actually be opened up. Since the beginning of the pandemic and the beginning of the suspension of the operation of the courts, we have pointed out both the dangers and the problems in a very well-known space. The courts of the country, the real estate offices and the mortgages belong to the most crowded areas, and even on a daily basis, which makes the possibility of increasing cases, but also of disseminating COVID -19 increased. Do not forget that before the 14-32020, which was effectively suspended, coronary cases had already occurred in both the Athens Court of First Instance and the Court of First Instance of Piraeus. The need, therefore, to protect judges, judges, lawyers and the public is to be added to the chronic problems of Greek justice. All these dangers are not just pointed out by us, Minister. They are pointed out by the judges, their associations, and by the plenary of the country's lawyers. Today we have heard you in the currently established card of six announcing certain specific measures, such as the mandatory use of a mask. I would say that you should also consider the free provision of the workers concerned over there. It is an issue that we need to see. You also mentioned compulsory safety distances. Of course, we did not hear - and we think you should think about it - the daily disinfection or the very regular disinfection of all these sites. However, very serious issues arise on which we would like answers, such as: What specific health protection measures do you intend to take for the courts? And I'm telling you, because today I've been talking to a lot of fellow lawyers, who told me that in December there was a court in eighty-square room, where there were twenty-five lawyers, involved, etc. You announced today that you must be one person every ten square meters. Make division and you all understand what a crowd was. So, what preparation is there from your Ministry for these phenomena in order to avoid crowding phenomena? I have the complaint for today. There are, of course, daily. We've seen them in the mortgages last few days. And here I would like to ask you this: in the mortgages the surveillance of measures has essentially been entrusted to security for a month. What happens as soon as this month is over? Do you see that? Apparently, COVID -19 is not going to leave in a month. I wish he would leave, but unfortunately it doesn't seem like that. The third question I would like to ask you is which directives have been given by the EGE for the safe reopening of the courts and especially if these directives have been given to those responsible, to those involved, to the workers, to the judiciary and to the judicial officers, if there is this information, if there is all that needs to be done on the Ministry's side. The neural area of justice is in resurrect. We must - and you must, Minister - listen to them, establish relations of mutual respect and dialogue with stakeholders and act quickly in the treatment of any mistakes and arrhythmias.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u93	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Colleague, your question does indeed have a timely interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u95	We didn't even get to know each other about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u96	That's right, you said it in your prototype. Only four hours ago we announced with the competent national committee the steps to restart justice. However, I have heard a criticism of a basis of arguments which have been responded in many ways in particular, emphatically, to many opportunities that have been found in the immediate past. What surprise, really, are we talking about? We did decide to open the mortgages from 28-4. That's the reality. But tell me where the surprise lies, when from the beginning of the Great Week, I personally in repeated public attendances to point out that after Thomas' Sunday the mortgages will start. Where is the surprise when I myself, along with the Minister's secretary here, informed the President of the Assembly of the Bar Associations on Monday about this intent? Where is the surprise when I personally informed all the presidents of the Supreme Court about the government's particular intention? Where is the surprise when we specifically informed all the head of the mortgages, the paid and the unpaid? Where is the surprise when we informed the judges of this intention to us? At some point we must understand that, of course, there may be a public dialogue with a confrontation on the basis of certain arguments, but at a very difficult time, they must overcome the synergy. I will not say a small political perception, because I imagine that there is no such thing in the debate between us. But this syndicate concept, which is based on an old-style trade - let me say - when there are exceptional and special conditions, such as the ones we have lived and we are still living because of the coronary pandemic, we must overcome it. And we must overcome it in a brave way, showing the example to the Greek citizens that the Greek state is here, is present through its own officials and can prove this at all times by basically satisfying the demands of citizens and society, because we are doing nothing more than that. I will not extend to tell you how many and what social groups have demonstrated their presence in the most emphatic way over the past time that some have only taken care to show that they are afraid and hidden. But I will tell you that at least in the Ministry of Justice in good time we have taken the measures. We were basically one of the first areas in the public service that we received these measures, and of course we were also the first place that we effectively attempted the first step of returning to normality. Once the mortgages are reopened with the respective functions of the court and the court, you understand - I think it is well known - that from the day after tomorrow, from 6 May, normality in administrative justice is to a large extent restored. We have, however, anticipated this by an act of legislation. Lawyers should have made a statement that they do not wish to appear at the audience, thereby protecting to a very large extent both the judicial officers and the judicial officers, the people who are in any event involved in this process. Of course, we must all know that, as I told you earlier, the possibility of electronic submissions by the parties, as well as the extension of the deadlines for legalisation, submission of statements by way of legislation. All of this creates a basic security treaty, since we all recognise the need to pass, even under these strange and special conditions, on the electronic age, on the digital age and on justice. From there on, however, we followed exactly the instructions that the Coronary Commission has proposed for the area of justice and which we have made known in all the administrations of the courts. What's predicted? A mask and a disinfectant liquid are to be used. It is planned to keep the distance of one and a half metres between persons and to be one person per ten square metres in enclosed areas. How do these directives apply? By Heads of Administrations of Judicial Formations in each court. You realise that the duty of the Ministry of Justice is to transfer the specific personal protection instructions to the authorities, to the chiefs of the courts and, beyond that, to them and to the competent bodies - I will tell you here that we have private security officers in all the submarines in the country and to ten of the largest unpaid, precisely in order to comply with all the conditions of the individual protection of people who come there. But, of course, I repeat once again that this is all about how each court's administration works, with the help of the Municipal Police and the Greek Police. I will tell you that the Secretary-General of the Ministry in a painful effort of his own and in a - if you want - continuous communication with both the Ministry of Civil Protection and with the CEDE, we have managed to achieve the assistance of the Greek Police and the Municipal Police, so that there is no problem with the operation of all these agencies. At the same time, we have ensured all the necessary appropriations to ensure the disinfections of the premises. The disinfections are not - if you like - the work of the Ministry of Justice. This is something we are calling for, and of course it is possible for the administrations of the courts. That's the reality. This is the practice that is being followed. To give you an understanding, it's not something that the Justice Department imposes on each court for every courthouse. Depending on the circumstances in which the administrations are formed, the court's chief is decontamination of this area, since you have asked me about this particular area. Of course, from there on, we managed to distribute all the sanitary materials, gloves, masks, disinfectant fluids with the courtesy of the Greek Posters. I would like to thank the Greek Posts through this communication, because at a difficult time they managed to distribute to all appeals the sanitary material provided by the Ministry of Justice, thereby enabling all the judicial formations of the country to take the protection measures it needs. From there on, you understand, and I understand that, we all realize that there is a concern and a fear. It is the fear and concern that exists throughout Greek society. By highlighting the unique one and I would say undeniable value of individual responsibility, the whole society must take the next steps. If we respect the personal protection measures recommended by the EGE and the Scientific Committee responsible for the treatment of the coronary, if we are to ensure that all this is a daily practice in our lives, at least I, although the Minister for Justice, can tell you that it will incomprehensibly limit any possibility of transmission of the coronary. So it remains only with responsibility, with great care, for each of us, every judicial officer, every judiciary, the co-operatives of justice, the citizens who may have to come to court for some time will have to follow the measures of individual protection without delay. In this case, I can assure you that it will not be the area of justice that creates the possibility of spreading the coronary. From there on I will come back for the procedures that you ask me about in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u97	Mrs Giannakopoulou has the floor. Let's keep the time from now on. In your question, I mean, I don't mean the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u98	Minister, you said so too, there is reasonable and great concern about returning to normality. That is why we tabled this question. Because we are asking for assurances about health checks. And I do not want to interpret what you have said, namely, that, essentially, compliance with the directives you have announced today is only a matter and work of either the heads of the courts or the individual responsibility of the participants in the functions of justice, and that is why the Ministry is washing its hands. That's why I think we should be very careful. We have seen images of great crowding and confusingness. The Ministry has a supervisory role to play against such conditions and situations and intervenes and intervenes forcefully when it sees that things deviate from the way the procedures should be done, on the basis of what scientists say. Now, of course, we are evidently helpless in trying to reopen the courts. And we recognise that the indefinite postponement of their operation will cost both lawyers and all, if you like, the economy and that, yes, it has to be done. What we have said, however, Minister, is that we need first and foremost and above all to consult and consult the relevant bodies. And at this point I am taking the opportunity, I cannot say, Minister, it was of course not just your own concern, that the government should be more direct and more substantial in terms of the measures to support lawyers and, of course, in no way, in this incredible mess of vouchers that you had to take back because of the general outcry. Lawyers are certainly one of the sectors which is very badly affected by this crisis. Now in the context of the new regularity which we all have to deal with without exception, I think it is absolutely essential to realise that we need to move forward at a new age in the field of justice. Our proposal is to strengthen the institution of electronic justice, the e-justice that PASOK brought years ago and which, through the horn pandemic, becomes not only necessary to move rapidly, but is a term of natural survival and prosperity for both the area of justice and the whole of our country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need a minute, Mr President, because all of them have been abused anyway. Now, in this direction, and always critically, but also proposals, because we are making creative and constructive opposition, I would like to take into account specific problems and I would like to take into account very specific proposals. You say, Minister, that, as from 1 June, insurance measures will be avenged, the functioning of justice will normally begin. You know very well that in insurance measures, for example, there are forty-five pins every day. The question is - specific things, specific questions - what exactly will be followed? Where are you going to find the rooms? What is the Ministry's proposal? It is not an easy solution and there are very serious questions on the part of lawyers and all the judiciary. On the subject of the regular procedure again, there is a huge crowd, especially in the secretaries. We have heard you today about the electronic submission of the documents. The documents must be lodged electronically everywhere and in all procedures. We want this to be specified and to reply to the report. Another major issue, which has emerged today also from your position, and I would ask you to clarify it, is essentially what I understood and understood by many in the legal world, about communications and, in fact, the abolition of evidence in specific procedures. I would ask you, therefore, to clarify whether without having consulted any of the relevant officials of justice, the judiciary, the lawyers, and so on, if you are moving on to such a huge change in the Code of Civil Procedure without prior consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u99	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u100	That, of course, was surprising. That was definitely a surprise announcement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u101	If there's no deal, that won't be solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u102	Yeah, but we want you to explain to us how it happened, and if you talked to anyone. Finally, let me close with this: we have tabled too many proposals as a Change Movement. I am not going to mention why time is pressing. But I will insist on the need - and I am closing with this, Mr President-in-Office - to turn the crisis of the coronary into an opportunity for digital change in justice, taking brave steps forward with proposals that are clear, realistic, directly applicable and always, Minister - and I stress this - in consultation and cooperation with the legal world of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u103	The Minister for Justice, Mr. Constantine Tsiaras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u104	You have raised many issues and thank you, because you will give me the opportunity to answer them. I will not go into a logic of constant responses, which have been given over a year ago, but I will try to respond to the essential issues, which I, too, think are worth communicating through the parliamentary control procedure. Firstly, you expressed concern about the abolition of an oral procedure in the specific procedures. There is no such thing unless there is no consent of the parties. That's what I want to make it clear. That is what we said anyway will only apply until 31-8-2020 and, of course, whether both sides agree, otherwise we are not talking about this. But on the one hand we cannot ask to protect workers in the field of justice and, on the other, to ask for the procedures to come back as before. For the insurance measures you asked me, do you know who they are? That we do not have criminal hearings, that for almost a month from the start, basically since the opening of the procedures for insurance measures, we will not have criminal courts. There will be rooms, there will be possibilities. It's a matter of running the courts. I personally have not renounced any responsibility to make things clear. And you should know that on the first day of the Reopening of the Mortuaries, who had this crowded pattern observed, both the Secretary-General and the Minister-General of the Ministry's Staff were found at all the lengths and backs of Attica, in order to see the process and try to help with our own interventions, as I myself was in the field of Hope in order to see the procedures of the courtroom. It's not something we left in luck as a function. I also want to make it clear to you that if we thought that after a month and a half, with closed mortgages, we would open up in one day and go five people without a crowd, we would probably live in another reality and you know it very well. We know where we are, we know what we're living, we know exactly what's going on. The essence of the matter from there on, Madam President, is that, at the moment - and here I think we need to see a very important and interesting element in the whole development - we have managed to promote many, many of the procedures relating to e-justice, e-justice and e-justice. Sometimes - we have to admit - perhaps the need itself forces us to move faster. I personally, from the moment I was in the position of the Minister of Justice, supported all the plans for the electronicisation of justice and we had even promoted the second phase of the integrated system of political and criminal affairs management, but also all the other issues relating to digital demography, the electronic submission of documents to the Council of State and to the administrative courts and procedures which obviously prompted the process of justice at another time, at a more advanced time. From there, what I would like you to know is that the Ministry of Justice has implemented the possibility of meeting collective bodies of public and public sector bodies with teleconferencing through the teleconferencing service epresence.gov.gr. It has provided the possibility of teleworking through a secure remote access service for the employees of the IACS - PSU applications, from the IEA of the project through the project infrastructure. The same procedure is available for the officials of the central agency of the Ministry of Justice and at the same time there is the possibility of teleworking through a remote access service to all public bodies, connected to the SYZIFIS network, at zero cost for the next three months by the Ministry of Digital Governance. And of course, most importantly, it is that through the website portal of the first-stage project, which concerns the political and criminal courts of Athens - Piraeus - Thessaloniki and Chalkida, as well as the Arion Ice and the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, citizens and lawyers are provided, through the digital portal of the project and using the personal credentials of "Taxisnet", the possibility of an electronic application for the issuing of certificates by the peace courts of the project, the Piraeus Court and the Piraeus Court. The Ministry of Justice also allows citizens and lawyers to collect electronic certificates for which they have submitted an electronic application, through the above portal and, of course, to tell you that the above possibility relates to at least all the prototypes and pacifiques of the first stage of IACS - IACS - and concerns certificates for non-publishing or non-conventional certificates, for not publishing a legacy, for non-infringement of an inherited right, and we believe that in the second quarter of May we will have the issue of CACs, with which some eighty certificates issued by the judicial authorities will be able to request them within the JACs. It is a very important development that I would like to believe will help the area of justice as a whole, to take the necessary steps towards the digital age, and to enable safe working on a basis on issues that were daily and which might create a risk of spreading pandemic, almost all the workers involved in the area of justice. I repeat, this is a difficult time and we must all understand that in the difficult times we must all put our best self in the effort to support an overall effort that our country is making in order to overcome a crisis, such as this coronary pandemic. I know there are concerns. I understand that. But we all need to understand that by moving forward and highlighting what we can use, I repeat, through the absolute respect for the personal protection measures proposed by the competent national committee and, if you like, by a pedagogical example, which we must show to the whole of Greece, we will be able to win a genuinely difficult battle for our country and for our society and for Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u105	Last is the second with number 635/264/2020, a top-stage question from the Member Kilkis of the Change Movement Mr.Georges to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "The need for a comprehensive tourism support and rebooting plan". Mr. Francis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it's true that we're living in a difficult time. With the pandemic of the coronary, which is a health crisis, we are all very concerned. And if this health crisis is not answered soon by either the vaccine or the drugs, then it will probably lead to the greatest post-war economic and social crisis. Tourism, we all know, is a key pillar of the economy in Greece. But it is brutally affected and the tourist world is experiencing great anxiety and uncertainty. The forecasts for the industry are extremely pitiful. The first estimates for 2020 refer to a drop of at least 60% in arrivals in Greece and a drop of 60% to 70% in tourist revenues. Only in the first twenty days, with the coronary pandemic, hotels recorded losses of 522 million euros from cancellations of rooms and conferences. Also, in the first fortnight of April, the adverts for hotel sales have spent a hundred ten three and only in Athens exceed 50 hotels. We also know that more than three thousand hotels will not open in 2020, due to low fullness and high operating costs. The tourist season at best will be three months, July - August - September. However, those who open up are sure to be forced to operate with less staff. At the same time, we have collapsed airlines and survival problems even large tour operators. Competition will be tough, and the risk that tourists will be left behind is also present. In other words, the European Union's policy on tourism must be based on the principle of subsidiarity and on the principle of equal treatment between men and women. And according to studies by the EU and the SETE, tourist businesses to reboot, will require working capital of about 1,8 billion euros. Such a situation, you understand, will surely lead to hundreds of thousands of workers in unemployment and businesses in collapse. Naturally, the course of tourism will also depend on the health criteria, that is, on the movement, on the course of pandemic within and outside the other countries, which are largely not dependent on us. However, there are actions which are in our hands, such as the establishment of realistic protocols on the hygiene of enterprises and the organisation of internal tourism which have been dramatically delayed. The delay in your reaction is too great. The issue of social tourism should have been discussed. The Government, in view of the forthcoming start of the season, must immediately present an integrated tourism support and relaunching plan. To date, despite the fragmentary measures and announcements, we do not know whether there is a plan for the next day. That is my first question, Minister, if there is a complete plan and what is that. My second question concerns workers and businesses in the sector. There is an indisputable need to protect workers in tourism, to strengthen the liquidity and competitiveness of tourist businesses. So what steps do you intend to take to achieve this?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u107	The Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am very pleased about the opportunity you are giving me, Mr Francis, with this question, to talk about the future of Greek tourism, and I am pleased that you are asking for the future in particular, that is, you are making an effort to make serious and welcome criticism, because of course we must talk about those actions that need to be taken so that we can have a substantial relaunch of Greek tourism. You ask whether there's a plan and I'll answer, of course, and directly, that there's a plan and I'll give you the axes on which we'll move. But, before that, I would like to dedicate most of my philosophy to the actions that have been taken, because they are not all of you, not everyone is good-faithful about what it has done and about the reflexes that the Ministry has shown and this government in its actions to support this great heavy industry, as we are used to saying, of Greek tourism. In short, then, I will say a few words: we have first run to adjust the function of the Ministry itself to the new reality with shifts, teleworking, the movement of all his systems to the so-called Cloud, so that we can operate remotely and on shifts, because our people understand that during the epidemiological crisis they could not work. The Ministry must be there to support. It is the heart of supporting Greek tourism. We will deliver a digital ministry after the end of this crisis. Secondly, from the very beginning we have had information, cooperation, action to adapt the market and help it in this unprecedented crisis. We ended up in a four-digit hypnote. He paid him the Ministry of Tourism all these years and he didn't do anything. It was just money paid to telecom companies. Today this four-digit figure answers the questions of the Greek hotelier, the Greek businessman, the Greek worker and of course anyone has a question related to tourism. And it will be the heart of the support and support of the tourist who will be here and this summer and the next, because that's how you inspire confidence in the people who come when in the difficult moment they have someplace to ask. We opened the hotels for social needs, and of course the Ministry of Health first gave the mandate to close all the hotels and had to become a marathon to support. Until today we are looking to see how much we allow deputys to go to their islands, to go to the remote areas and to be able to stay to offer services to our children. Thirdly, we have taken support measures for all the workers supported, such as guides, seasonals, officials, businessmen who supported them too. In small businesses in particular, up to 20 people also received 800 euros. The liquidity of businesses with the cheques, tax and other facilities that we have given, even rents, job suspension, loans to banks are a number of things that have now been done during the crisis. I would like to say a great thank you for the excellent cooperation we have had in all the co-legislative ministries on a daily basis with work, with finance, with development, with transport, shipping and all the ministries that had a reason and some responsibility. Fourthly, with regard to the country's projection, not only to stop the projection that for the first time started so early and we had to run to stop it, but with a global originality and innovation in the heart of the crisis, our country also managed to help deal with the coronary itself, with a move #Greecefromhome found and found the greatest recognition that some imitators can have in other countries right after us. And finally, the international dimension of the problem has been recognised and activated immediately. We are pressing for a change in the attitude of the Commission. I would remind you of the statements made by the President of the Commission that we should not schedule our holidays this year. Of course, even with our firm attitude, even with public interviews in Brussels, we have helped to change the attitude of the Commission and to speak today of a task force of tourism in the European Commission and talk about the smart solutions that we can see. At the meeting of the Tourism Ministers we were able to press for the placement of the voucher, an effort that we went through here by means of an act of legislation and initiative of our Ministry, so that we could support the Greek businessmen, because there is no possibility of liquidity turning all the advances that have been made abroad. We have built and built alliances by signing common texts on the future of tourism in Europe with Bulgaria, France, Spain, Italy, Cyprus, Malta, Portugal, Romania. Allieds which will be valuable the next day so that we can develop and open the borders, as must be done. And of course we were active in the UN World Tourism Organisation and in the crisis management team I am active in, but also in a particular task force that I created as President of the European Commission of the World Tourism Organisation with nine other countries in Europe to be able to advise both the Member States and the European Commission on the next day. The next day, therefore, through these actions, it seems that it is already formed, with a strong action plan, because, after the Prime Minister's mandate, a task force has been formed both internally and inter-ministerially to bring this plan into operation. I'll give more evidence to my dentistry. Again, I must thank the Ministries working on the night and EIAYY, its experts, for the financial protocols with us, with the Joint Group with the Ministry of Tourism, and of course we will have the announcements in their time. But I will be able to say about this action plan that will support Greek tourism in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u109	Mr Françidis, before you take the floor, I think that all of us together should thank the workers in the House who today was a very difficult day and stayed so late with us. Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u110	Patience five more, ten minutes and we'll be done. We really thank them. Minister, I have listened with caution and sincerely I do not want to help you with what you have said and what you have done so far. But the situation in tourism and the economy is extremely critical and our reflexes must be very fast. That's not good enough. It opens up or should have been opened and not many know what to do. So far, the government has not been able to meet the real needs of the area and has not presented a comprehensive plan to support and relaunch tourism aimed at three things, namely tourism, workers and businesses. What prevails in the tourist world ahead of the beginning of the season is confusion, uncertainty and insecurity. They don't know how they'll work and whether they operate their operations. There is no provision for single and realistic health and safety protocols for tourist businesses. We are talking about protocols in which everyone will need to be trained, owners, workers and clients. The conditions for reopening which have been announced for two metres of distance and four people on each table, for most of the tourist areas and for small and medium-sized enterprises are unrealistic. It involves low completeness, disproportionate operating costs, declining staff or elasticisation of labour. On the other hand, major hotel owners have made it clear that they are waiting specifically and safely for pan-European protocols on travel and hotels before they open up any of the hotels. It is clear that neither all hotels nor businesses will be opened soon, taking into account the issues of the safety of new measures and operating costs. The first market to be regained is the internal market, because there is no health risk due to the good course with the coronary pandemic and there will be no dependence on external factors. You should have had domestic and social tourism programmes already in place. What really prevents understanding between the Ministries or the Ministry of Labour to go ahead - as is the case with alternative tourism - with the benefit of the afflicted citizens of the country, but also with the direct stimulus of the economy and employment, the extension of the tourist season, the emergence of destinations and sustainability? Instead, we only have announcements. You're constantly playing the communication game, but no substance. The backbone of Greek tourism is the workers and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore necessary to support the state so that we do not lose thousands of jobs. In order to avoid the lock-up and to be competitive, further brave measures on the part of the State are needed in the direction of reducing tax rates and, in particular, of VAT and strengthening liquidity. Really, why don't you announce the VAT reduction? Do you expect the Prime Minister to do that? The Change Movement has clear proposals for them. For example, I will mention: a zero advance tax payment for 2020 and a suspension of debt payments, a reduction in VAT on catering and accommodation for tourist businesses for two years, a abolition of a two-year stay, a return to reduced VAT on the Aegean islands, a provision of low-interest loans with a government guarantee and others. For this reason, the Change Movement, having taken into account all the data and knowing the importance of the operation of the tourism sector, presents today - and I put it in the Minutes - a national tourism exit plan from the crisis, believing that at last we must all act and the government must react immediately with a national plan and not just with promises or words. [[At this point the Member, Mr Georgios Frangidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The time spent on paper exercises is over and you must understand that, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because otherwise, unfortunately, the images and results of tourism will be very negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Francis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Francis, you're saying you don't want to blame me, but you're resigning us that we don't have a plan. Can you find me a European country that has a project and announced one? Are you aware that we are in the lead and that other European countries are currently urging their citizens not to move? We have the luxury to have this debate because our government quickly made the decisions when you whispered in opposition because it shuts down carnivals. We have taken health decisions very quickly, and we are here today, and we can afford to discuss the economy. So I told you that we already have a plan and that plan is agreed with the Prime Minister himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u113	Check it out, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u114	(Minister of Tourism): I tell you. That's why I'm here. I have already told you in my protology that today you are giving me the opportunity to say the specific lines of action of this plan, which is already growing and unfolding. The impact management team for the relaunching of tourism began for 15 days and is now finalising its results. I'll tell you the specific courses of action for Greek tourism to begin. But before they do, I'll put an asterisk. We won't compare this year to last year. There will be no country in the world that operates on the same terms as we did last year. This applies to hygiene, this also applies to the economy. So the course of action is as follows: first, there is the sanitary axis for protocols. We go ahead and prepare protocols and new operating methods for hotels, marinas, yachting, for each activity, for bus transport, planes, and everything. Are they realistic? It's realistic. I can tell you. We will also discuss this with the Health Committee as well, because the New Democracy Government is, of course, putting the public's health first. However, we will have such conditions that neither the health of our citizens nor the reputation of our destinations nor, of course, the health of the guests who choose us, when we can open our borders. So the first axis is that. I would like to inform you that on 8 May the working parties of the Ministry of Tourism, together with the EGE, will be ready with all the health protocols so that we can consult the social partners. The social partners already know that. He knows the U.S., SETE knows. We have therefore already initiated this procedure for which you are speaking. We are already waiting for the SETE - he has announced - that they will also be ready on 11 May with proposals, so that this week we can hold an intensive consultation and be one of the first countries to make this finalisation of the protocol. I have already had a conversation today with two European countries - I will not say their names - which, once we are ready on 8 May, to give them a Draft form, so that they too can shape their views. The Community is already waiting for our own thoughts. We are working with them to shape European thought at this level. We will not, however, expect Europe if Europe is not ready to go ahead. We owe Greek tourism, we owe the professional tourism, we owe the Greek citizens to be ready. The second axis is economic. Very specific and very costly packages are being prepared, which will be presented this week as well. We finalise the work with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Labour, which is the main ministries. These packages are moving in three directions. The workers who will not be absorbed will be supported. We need to recognise economic reality. The demand will not be enough to absorb all the workers. You talked to some numbers. I am also telling you that the figures will not be positive for us, but for no country. The workers who will not be absorbed will therefore be supported by the Government of the New Democracy. The businesses that will open and be present at this difficult time working and supporting the Greek tourism product will be supported by the Government of New Democracy. Finally, the competitiveness of the Greek product will also be supported by the Government of New Democracy. But wait for announcements at the moment we're on the first day of the lifting of the measures. We are in the second phase of the crisis. The first phase of the crisis was a complete restriction so that we can cover it sanitaryly. The second phase of the crisis is the gradual lifting of measures and internal restrictions, to see whether all we have planned will work in practice and whether we will all get used to the new way of life, so that we do not have to take them back. And only if we do not take them back, we will be able to go and announce the VAT measures and everything you say, which we of course are costing. But when flights are forbidden today, what can VAT do to you? No matter how much VAT there is, you're not allowed to fly. The third axis is the diplomatic. Greek tourism will be ready to welcome tourists. But if the German Government, the Israeli Government, the Russian Government and the United States government quarantine those returning from our country, then no tourists will come. You're not coming here ten days to sit in your house for fourteen days. They need diplomatic movements. I repeat that at the moment many countries are still in a state of dealing with their health risks, which they have not put into the situation in which they would like and therefore have no opportunity to discuss. However, there are countries that are discussing. Already working groups are working with specific countries so that we can open our borders as soon as possible. But we can't force someone to do it. If a government is afraid of health, you can't make it open its borders to us. So we will have the greatest possible result of this process and we are already moving on multiple levels. Inland tourism, of course, is more secure, at least in the minds of most people, after the low and medium distance air tourism and, finally, air tourism of distant destinations. As far as internal tourism is concerned, measures will of course be taken and they are already reviving both the programmes of the Ministry of Tourism, such as the "Tourism for All" programme and the programmes of the Ministry of Labour, because they have been stricken, as in recent years there have been no funds. We therefore need to make a negotiation process in order to find these funds. But we must not forget the following: first, domestic tourism is around 2 billion in relation to the 18 billion that comes from abroad - it is too small - and, secondly, it does not bring a single euro currency - it actually recycles the Greek economy - third, in conditions of negative savings it will not really help so much the growth of GDP and will simply pass on household consumer spending. It needs and needs to be strengthened for the sake of the tourist industry, but it is not panacea. Internal tourism is not the lever, the driving force of growth. It is the transfer of funds from other economic activities of the country to the tourist industry, but it must be supported until flights are opened and in particular by extending the tourist season at the end. The fourth axis is the projection of the country. After the 'Greece from home', we will have a new campaign ready in the next few weeks which, for the first time, will be able to be a national campaign away from misconduct and amateurism, since today we all have the opportunity to stop advertising. In this way, we will be able to support the country's visibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u115	Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u116	I shall conclude, Mr President, and I also apologise for the officials who have been on this difficult day. However, you understand that this day is as difficult for all of us. However, this is a very good opportunity to discuss these institutional issues in the House. You know very well that my purpose is not to make announcements from the channels. I respect the role of the House, and these announcements must be made by this House, from the Step by the House. So contacts must be made with the tour operators and with the international instruments so that we can keep our country in first contact. I will leave the words of the 'TUI' cee in Germany at 'SPIEGEL' on Saturday who said that 'we want to work with countries that do something to bring tourists back and to activate tourism like Greece - first - Portugal, Cyprus' and not just the Balearic islands from Spain. I have here the German article, if you want it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister of Tourism, Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents the above mentioned article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I'm hanging up. This plan starts with the middle, it's over, it's got a vision. It is a plan that will enable us to make this crisis the greatest opportunity of Greek tourism, because we want to be the first in Europe to recover, the first to inspire those who choose to come to our country, the first to make use of the temporary vacuum for the quality upgrade of the tourist product, so that we can re-establish ourselves as a country through tourism. Not, therefore, words but work and not simple work, work that produces work and not simple work, but work that produces results. But we are putting a big asterisk: our country with this plan, which we are going to implement, will be ready to make use of the last chance to have tourism worldwide and especially at European level, without going back, without backwards and backwards, without any squeeze. But if all of us do not comply with the health rules, if our country or other countries come back and we cannot hesitate to take our lives and return it to some kind of normality, we will, of course, also expect the green light from those who are experts and we will give the dogma to health and those who are facing health issues. The Government of New Democracy puts the man ahead, the values and we observe what we have said since the beginning. First of all, health and then everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u117	Thank you. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. I left everyone to express their opinion in plenty of time as you would have seen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-05-04-S1-commons.u118	With the agreement of the House at 23.44 the meeting for tomorrow morning, Tuesday, 5 May 2020, on the subject of Parliament's work: continuing discussion and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and all the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Modernisation of environmental legislation, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directives 2018/844 and 2019/692 of the European Parliament and of the Council and other provisions’.
