ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The National Education, Training and Lifelong Learning System, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on the control of proportionality prior to the adoption of a new legislative framework for the professions (OJ L 173, ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the Hellenic German Youth Foundation and other provisions). The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 9 December 2020 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, as regards the organisation of the debate, it is proposed in addition to the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives, as well as ministers, and a circle of speakers who will participate in a natural presence. Two speakers will also be added to the discussion by teleconferencing via the Webex platform. In particular, the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives will be present in a natural presence, as will a circle comprising one speaker from each parliamentary group. A total of eighteen Members present in the Chamber. With teleconferencing service - Webex platform - two speakers are proposed. Each cycle will include up to twelve speakers, with the following ratio: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the parliamentary groups by letters. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Iason Fotidas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u4	Before giving the floor to the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Jason Fotima, the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement will take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I have tabled to you - and I would like to say it orally - a plea of non-constitutionality of Articles 147 and 148 of the bill, due to breach of Rule 72 of the Constitution, which provides for the legislative function of the House, in conjunction with Article 65(1), where Parliament's Rules of Procedure are enshrined as the Charter governing the free and democratic functioning of Parliament, as well as Article 28(1) for the process of ratification of an international convention with a formal law. This is unconstitutional. The Bureau will decide when it should be discussed. Secondly, the Rectors' Conference is now taking place, including representatives of the parliamentary groups. Our rapporteur is at the Rectors' Conference, and that is why she has been delayed coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u6	Mr Kegeroglu, the objection of unconstitutionalism has already been raised in the Bureau. I have given it, Mr Kegeroglu, to be photographed and shared with the rapporteurs. Therefore, after the rapporteurs' speech at some point, we will also set the time for those who are in favour of the objection. In other words, a representative of yours and the opponents of the other parties for unconstitutionalism. We will see this in time, after all the rapporteurs or those who will be appointed by the parties to consider the objection have been prepared. We shall now proceed with the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Jason Fotida. You have the floor, Mr. Firela, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank once again the Ministry of Education, the Minister and the State Secretarys for giving me the opportunity, both in the Commission and in plenary, to present this bill. A bill addressed to the middle Greek family. From this step I would like to address, in addition to my colleagues, especially the parents who are struggling for the future of their children. With the bill that we are introducing today for discussion and which comes after extensive dialogue with parties and social actors, we are completely reforming the framework of vocational education, training, this poor relative of education in our country, unfortunately. We are also radically improving the structures of lifelong learning. It was our basic pre-election announcement and commitment to immediately upgrade vocational education. And I say directly, because Greece must follow and collide with the rest of Western Europe at the pace and requirements of the fourth industrial revolution. It is vital for Greece to do so. A revolution that brings changes with gloomy speed in the organization of education and work, with new occupations and specialties, in the fields, in factories, in the services. The consequence of this change is the urgent need to restructure the structures of education. And we need to help our children follow these developments so that in their future they can find this profession that suits them to their interests and to their calls. Only then will they be able to stand decently in the changing society. Over the past few decades or, if you prefer, the first of the post-population, all parties and social institutions have argued that this could be achieved through the university. For all of us in the past decades, if not the exclusive, the basic social anode for the children of the Greek family. In the last two decades, however, this model has shown its limits, not only in Greece but also in Europe, throughout the world. Graduating a university today does not necessarily lead to work. Many times in our country - most of us would say - it leads to unemployment and seeks another specialty or even worse in immigration abroad, in the famous Brain Drain. At the same time, there is in Greece in all the research that has seen the light enormous demand in specialties that do not even need to be graduates of the higher education institution. We all know families who studied children and who are now looking for or finding work abroad as doctors, engineers or other specialties, because in Greece there is saturation. Let me talk about my profession, the lawyer's profession. The Patras Bar Association is written about eight hundred fifty lawyers. Half of them perform one to five performances a year. You understand what that means. It means either they don't do the lawyer or they work, doing the mess of some big lawyers, never attending. That is precisely the problem we want to change with this bill. In other words, to our children that today vocational rehabilitation does not only bring general school or university, but also vocational education and training. The labour market in our country needs and seeks occupations of specific skills. All the great renovators of education in our country have tried to make some corresponding changes. Kapodistrias with craftsmanship, Venizelos with the reform of 1929, Papanoutsos in 1964, Konstantinos Karamanlis in Postmopolitanism and then the governments and PASOK. Today, however, we need to take an even bigger step. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has dared to do so after a wide debate with the social institutions and following all the procedures of good legislation. In one respect, we are not originalizing. Most European countries have done so and have done so. Perhaps the most successful model of country is that of Germany, the well-known binary system, the dual system, which combines general education, as well as practical exercise. Unemployment has been greatly reduced through this, but also a huge boost has been given to their country's economy. We, unfortunately, have left our country behind in this area and we are running in time. For only if we are to prevent these developments, we will achieve the much-needed development for our country, but also the personal success of our children. And how do we change the landscape of vocational education or of intermediate technical education and training and lifelong learning? Introducing innovations. The first concerns the unified strategic planning and the distinctive levels of qualifications. In other words, we are establishing a national vocational education and training system, which is developed at levels 3, 4 and 5 of the national qualifications framework, in line with the European framework, which has been an outstanding country since 2011, and a single design, which will succeed from all these basic principles, such as the better connection to the country's economy. Second innovation is the essential involvement of the social partners in the design of vocational education and training and lifelong learning and at central and regional level, with the establishment of the relevant Council with participation and a representative of the AIFMs. What are these councils gonna do? They will detect, assist in detecting the specific needs of the labour market at both national and local level, and on the basis of these specific needs it will then be determined what lessons will be taught in the structures of vocational training, which specialities will be offered, not as in the past that these specialities have been defined unreservedly and that is why, most of the time, failures have been outdated. The establishment of professional high school models is another innovation, which we have also promised in our election programme, such as innovation, is the possibility for IEKs to set up experimental and thematic IEKs and OAEDs. Level 3 after high school is also an important innovation that all countries have. There has been a lot of discussion in the Commission about the introduction of this level, but believe me we have proved it with evidence. The vast majority of the countries of the European Union have a postnatal level of education and training. And we are not only staying in the establishment of these levels of qualifications, but above all we are giving the possibility of so-called permeability, so that students, students, students and students can have access to any level of education and vocational training. For example, if one chooses to attend the level 3 vocational training school, then he can then choose to continue his training in the second class of PES. If a person graduates from IEK, he may issue a documentary examinations for his admission to a corresponding AEI, in a relevant subject area, in accordance with the terms which the higher institution itself will place. We also change and set prerequisites in the operation of Lifelong Learning Centres. We're talking about about a thousand five hundred, the ex-Centres and Lifelong Learning, of which a thousand hundred and two hundred do not even have a training permit, they don't have access to disabled people. We are talking about basic conditions that are set and need to be fulfilled, and that is what we are doing! Even for the need to strengthen equipment, we provide for the fact that, within the proposals from the European Union's Recovery Fund, which was finally adopted a few days ago, there is a specific proposal of EUR 120 million that we have tabled for the substantial strengthening of laboratory centres in all vocational education and training structures. Ladies and gentlemen, I have waited for the opposition not to vote well for the bill, but at least to give a real programming speech. However, with the exception of the attitude of KINAL and Ms Kefalidou, who recognised positive and developmental elements in the bill and offered to the debate with their comments and proposals - of course a question remains unanswered, since we agree on so much because they will vote against it, but, anyway - the remaining opposition parties, I have predominantly opposed the Acoustic Opposition, have confined themselves to arguments that either lack seriousness or are based on inaccurate and false arguments. The JRC initially accused us of - says - legislating in the middle of a pandemic, proposing - I don't know! - to close the House until the health crisis is over? Then she accused us - listen, ladies and gentlemen - because - she says - of allowing the labour market itself to decide and shape its needs. Obviously, should he - I don't know - the party's Secretary-General decide on the needs of the market? Then we'll go to the collectivization, Mr. Delis? Anyway, the JRC in any case remains faithful. We may disagree ideologically, but they are serious and loyal to their values. They don't change every day or every week. Is SYRIZA going to talk to us back to his sterlings about intense neoliberalism? To accuse us of favouring the industrialists, employers and capital in general? SYRIZA, who legislated, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in time, to give casinos a loan to players over 50,000, so that they can get what's left of them and they're not left. We're going to give that up, I'm going to testify to it in the Minutes. It is Law 4512 Article 378 26 that the government of the "first time left" enables casinos to get the last euro left in poor players. I put it in the Minutes for Mr. Friend to see it and feel proud of his left-wings. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But let us really think about it, ladies and gentlemen. Are the interests of employers and of the great capital in the region of Kalavryta, say, the mayor and the executives of the local agricultural cooperative? We're not talking about a big fund. We are talking about an agricultural cooperative, which has agreed to create a milk school, so that young people and young people in the region can study better, so that they can make even better the local products that are, milk, cheese and yoghurt. Believe me, the opposite happens. They harm the interests of the big man's capital, since it manages a rural cooperative to be particularly competitive with the large dairy industries. If tomorrow the cooperative in the saint that produces and exports this precious, the only product of the black Corinthian raisin does the same, will it again be because it has followed the orders of the bloodthirsty employers? If the structure of the IEK in Patras decided to set up a foreign-language department - we have excellent quality human resources - will it be at the command of the employers? A little seriousness, ladies and gentlemen, it does not hurt. We have been accused by SYRIZA's colleagues of institutionalising the possibility of working for minors, and it has been established for thirty-five years since the first socialist government of the late Andreas Papandreou, and indeed, on SYRIZA, it has continued. This is what the Minister said yesterday - Article 105 of Law 4547/2018. I'm trying to put this down, and I'm trying to get Mr. Friend to see it that's where he's talking about juvenile work. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Really, isn't a kid capable of studying and working? Here she is capable of deciding on the fate of the country, voting on it, deciding what will happen next. A la cartt is this. We were accused by SYRIZA that we supposedly reduce the value of the degrees given by the apprenticeships NGAAs, because while giving a level 4 degree, they will now give a level 3 degree. Really, Mrs. Jufi, by what specific provision did the NSAs give a level 4 degree? I challenge you to put it in the Minutes. I'll wait until the end of the meeting. However, for the convenience of the debate, let us assume that this is the case for a moment. The young man who graduates from 1st High School is therefore enrolled in the ERAS of apprenticeship, does two years of study, and after two years he receives a level 4 degree, as you say, and then goes - as the law gives him the possibility - and enrolled in the Second High School of Occupational High School and sits another two years and takes a level 4 degree. We have a problem, ladies and gentlemen. Why is that? If he had 4, why would he go and sit two years to get 4 again? Someone's making fun of someone. Ladies and gentlemen, to close slowly, this bill brings together the changes necessary for a holistic change in the middle of technical education and training so that it becomes attractive to the young people and young people of our country. Further changes are also made with provisions such as those concerning the bathing programme, the Greek name, but also with amendments tabled and our parliamentary representative will speak. I will only say about it for the EEA, which we upgrade the function for the state certificate of language. Last point I would like to comment on is the debate on the ratification of the famous Greek-German Youth Foundation. In relation to the opposition to anti-constitutionalism, Mr. Bougas will be mentioned. What I would like to remind everyone about is that this is an agreement which was, in the first place, voted in favour of all parties, except the JRC, which stated 'PAC' to the House. Subsequently, the Convention was signed in 2019, three days before the election, with all that that implies. However, what I would like to say is that - it is already explicitly mentioned in the text - it does not relate in any case to any rightful claim there is a request from the Greek state or from Greek citizens for the crimes of the Nazi regime. That is why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not been involved so far, which will finally sign it. Why? Because it's about the education bill. This is why it was signed by the Secretary General of the Ministry of Education of the Government of SYRIZA. To sum up, despite the difficulties due to the pandemic, the Government of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, makes all those changes that are needed for the benefit of the citizens. We will succeed, we will lead the country to sustainable development and prosperity in the context of the crisis, in the spirit of the times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too, Mr. Lightla. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Merope Jufi, now has the floor. Here, Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u9	Good morning, everyone! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in the midst of a pandemic and with schools closed up, with the educational community in front of the screens of telecoms and the society in lockdown, but also with the House discussing the 2021 budget over the past few days, the Ministry of Education has chosen quickly and without the necessary debate with the educational community to put the draft legislation under way today, which, in our opinion, is turning back the clock of public vocational education and training. Madam Minister, in the debate that took place last few days in the Morphics Committee you did not tell us about the need for this legislation to proceed with this process. Those who follow us from the field of education rightly have a series of concerns and problems in a different direction. Students, parents and the world of education wonder when and how they will open up the schools that were closed up because the government presented guilty inertia and management failure to shield them sanitaryly. At the beginning of the school year, you assured that everything is ready, that the government took steps, that it was prepared for the smooth and safe operation of schools. The denial came a few days later, when departments and entire schools began to close all over the country and the free masks sent were for "Cyclops" and not for children, when you campaigned for the "pagurin" that protects from the coronary. That was, ladies and gentlemen, the government's and the Ministry's plan for the reopening of schools. No exceptional funding, no provision for additional staff, no initiative to dilute students in the classroom, no improvement in infrastructure, despite the existence of the favourable summer timeframe. Of course, and no plan for diagnostic tests, which so far is the case for students and teachers, as well as for any reliable tracking system. The follow-up is more or less well-known, closed all high school and high school, followed by the lockdown of primary and kindergartens, despite the continuing assurances of the government on the contrary. However, the Ministry of Education's failure was not exhausted in the reopening of schools, it was also unfolded in the lack of planning and preparation for the second phase of telecommunications. According to the Greek authorities, CISCO was not the sole shareholder of the digital infrastructure, as it should have been, while the telecom system was delivered to CISCO, without the conditions of the agreement with the Greek State being known. When the 'CISCO' system fell, the telematics system in the country has fallen and so far there are technical problems. As far as school equipment was concerned, for some time the Minister was in favour of the ninety thousand devices that were supposed to have arrived in schools. Every day teachers, parents and students falsify this claim. If this equipment was sent to those children who are unable to afford and are excluded from telematics, why are you now announcing a new programme of equipment, namely the 200 euro voucher that you have tabled as an amendment? I asked you to explain to us in the past few days, please respond responsibly and honestly: has there been a measurement of needs? Do we know how many kids don't have the necessary equipment? How many devices have you sent up and with what priority? By the arrangements you bring, when and how will they be equipped and how many children as a whole? These are the crucial questions that society has raised for eight months. Now we're talking about reopening schools after 7 January. Are you ready or will the schools open as they closed? If there is a third wave of pandemics, which, as you know, is likely to lead us back to the closure of schools, will tele-instruction work unnecessarily? These are the questions that we and the other parties in the Opposition are asking, but the reality itself is asking them. Unfortunately, you choose to move in a different direction. We have already proposed a series of measures, such as the dilution of pupils in classes, especially for the ninety thousand children conspiring in the halls of twenty-eight to thirty students. On the contrary, you chose to vote for the increase in the number of pupils in kindergartens and in the first grade, a globally negative originality given health care. We have pointed out the need for emergency funding. This is not the result of the budget that you have just voted in favour of. You are reducing the regular budget in education, despite the ballots to add the Public Investment Program to change the impressions. We urged you to complete the ten thousand five hundred permanent appointments now, you responded with three-monthly contracts of shame and thousands of blank December. You say you will, but the expenditure is not reflected in the 2021 budget in salaries and expenditure in primary and secondary education. The fifteen thousand appointments were SYRIZA's plan, and then New Democracy from the opposition's position mocked it. In fact, for the four thousand five hundred in special treatment, the appointment was made at one year's delay and all the preparation was made by us, while the five thousand two hundred fifty in general had to be done in September and were not done. Now make a commitment to Parliament that the ten thousand five hundred appointments will be made immediately in the first few months of 2021, once the final tables of the AACC are issued. Your curiosity in the previous period is to legislate in favour of the dismantling of labour relations on behalf of the owners of private schools, the normalisation of colleges, of course, the financial suffocation of higher education institutions. Now you are coming back with a bill on public education and training, which, in our opinion, gives us the keys to the market and business, and thousands of children are evicted from the coarse early training and disposable skills. Of course, you are saying that you are seeking to upgrade, but it is a monumental phrase of Mr Mitsotakis's words about the cooler from Peristeri, which showed the way early. Indicatively, as you left the main pillar of vocational education at the wheel of governance, the PESA, in their luck, devalued apprenticeship, undermined the program "A New Principle in the PESA", introduced an unjust system for mobilisation of IEK instructors, which has caused many reactions. You have carried out without any justification the examinations of graduates' certification and the budget you have voted for reduce public spending on vocational education by EUR 30 million. You're trying to convince us about the opposite of reports of resource transfer, but the numbers speak for themselves. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, in June 2019, as far as this sector is concerned, we handed you a well-processed plan, the National Strategic Plan for the Upgrading of Vocational Education and Training. Written in 2016, he was immediately implemented in order to heal the wounds left by the Governments of New Democracy. I would remind you that in 2013 the government of Samara decided to dismantle the PSAs, with Mr Arvanitopoulos in the Ministry of Education to abolish skills and Mr Mitsotakis in place of the Minister of Administrative Reform to sign the availability of two thousand five hundred teachers. We provided you with executive schools, after re-entering two thousand five hundred teachers, reformed the structure of the PESALs and the curriculum programs to provide general knowledge and appropriate technical and professional skills, and in 2017-2018 launched the innovative program "A New Principle in PESAL" with double-enhancing teaching, psychologists in schools, telematics equipment. We have secured funding from national and European resources and the programme has come to be awarded as an excellent practice from European policy. This changed the climate within schools with an increase in the number of pupils and a reduction in the school leak. We established the apprenticeship at the PESA, with remuneration and full professional rights, and widened the prospects of graduates in a wide range that includes the introduction to PES, until direct absorption into the labour market and the relationship with the social partners was essential and important. Even in suffocating conditions, because you are talking about upgrading laboratory equipment, I would like to remind you that money is still being absorbed by the NSRF of EUR 26 million to strengthen technological equipment. These days, this equipment was received from Thessaly, while we had started from the northern Aegean. In the same length we tried to put order in the landscape training of the public IEK, redesigned the institution of the Centres for Lifelong Learning, and founded second opportunity schools. These were the scripts. Obviously, it wasn't all perfect, and there's a need for improvements. However, the direction was to strengthen the social role, as I have said, of vocational education and the improvement of social mobility with decent professional outlets. This has been confirmed by both you and the social partners. We have statements by Mrs Zacharaki, who spoke positively about the steps that had been taken, and the Ministry's Secretary-General also argued in 2013 against early specialisation and underage apprenticeship. So what's changed? What has changed is that you are now deciding to destroy everything positive that has been done by returning to the crime scene. You are, unfortunately, promoting the orderly departure of pupils from schools to early schools. I would remind you that those schools that were in existence before had been closed by the New Democracy Government in 2013 and it is a very big question of what will happen with the thousands of working hours on them, because you are coming back to your old plan. Of course, I would also like to comment on what you are saying about the PSA standards, which you are proposing as a solution to all the problems. We proposed, instead of PSAI standards, that all schools be experimental and that we acted with the "A New Authority in the PSAs", which was awarded by the European Commission's 2020 report as the Centre for Professional Excellence. At the same time, it cannot, of course, be considered as upgrading the abolition of the two-year curricula of vocational studies at universities for the graduates of vocational schools. It is clear that this programme is being implemented in many European countries, it has been designed by universities themselves in consultation with the local communities, with guaranteed funding for Yannina with a view to dairying, livestock farming, aquaculture and small and medium-sized enterprises. Remove it with a mono-compound. In the same way, upgrading cannot be considered to be the closure of 40% of public IEK. The only upgrade you make is in private IEK. Along with the provision of the graduation classes, IKKs are converted into a provider for alternative admission to universities, avoiding the entire Greek examinations, of course, for those who raise it in their pockets and even at the same time when the Minister is announcing a reduction in the number of importers through the examinations and plans to set a number of cuts. I think that here excellence finds its best expression. The bill clearly degrades OAED's apprenticeship schools. In fact, here you retrospectively degrade the degrees. Our design, because you are not telling the truth about these schools, which you had abolished, extended until 2022, in order to evaluate the system and its development and, from there on, to provide for their support and upgrading at both programme level and the length of study, so that they can understand a much better place in the national and European framework of qualifications. Move in exactly the opposite direction. The forecasts for Lifelong Learning Centres are also in the wrong direction and concern the systematic effort that you make to demolish the OAED at this level of counselling and support for the unemployed. This is how you pave the way for the destruction of the 1.5 billion euro from the Recovery Fund and of course leads to phenomena of the state-owned market and the voucher industry, which have recently led to the 'victim' scandal. All the agencies tell you not to move in that direction. The only exception is BSE, which is, of course, the natural and political ally of the Government of New Democracy. This is reflected in the latest recommendation of the Council of the European Commission on 24 November 2020, which tells you that it is necessary when talking about sustainable competitiveness, social justice and resilience to aim at higher levels of qualifications, from ‘5’ to ‘8’. Of course, those involved who refuse the dialogue are directly rejecting it. You refuse to meet them, not only for the bill, but also for all the other key issues that concern education, telecommunications, the reopening of schools, the service councils and other open issues in education. I do not, of course, have time to deal with all the issues contained in this bill. But I have two more things to say. We asked you to withdraw the arrangement for the service councils. It is a coup d'état and ignores the will of 93% of teachers. You played the card of authoritarianism and you lost. The big majority turned your back on you. Instead, you decide to legislate on serving the service councils with appointed representatives instead of present representatives from you. Also, for the same reason, because you arbitrarily abolish the elected representatives of the employees, we ask you to take back Article 110 for the establishment of the Sivitanide School. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. I shall end with the very great debate that took place on the subject of the transnational agreement with the Hellenic German Youth Foundation. We have asked you, too, and everyone else, to withdraw it and come under the normal procedure. The Foreign Minister's signature is missing. So we have asked you to reintroduce it by the envisaged procedure, because we would like detailed information on what the answer from the German side is to the private communication, which is also a key element in our attitude. In conclusion, then, the New Democracy with this bill minimizes the public nature of education and gives space to private interests, creates new housing, fuels social inequalities, strengthens exclusion, and yes, restricts social mobility or permeability, as you say it. The government chooses to recognize the real world from its tower in Versailles. She tries to convince with the raw language of power that the only way, not only in education, is by discipline, subjection, simple survival for the big social majority and her children, as long as their skills, the best possible, not the perfect, but the best. However, the left must insist on the resistance strategy, that the system can change with wider social majorities and overturns and with basic axes a strong public health and social state - not forgetting ourselves, pandemic is still here - with a new productive model based on innovation and with brave funding in education. Yes, here vocational education and training can contribute directly and substantially to the occupational and social integration of those who choose it and, on the one hand, to the overall development of the country, but with the protection of work, with respect for nature and the environment, so that dreams can actually get revenge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Jufi. The reason is now the special speaker of the Movement of Change Mr. Joy Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how much we view all the information published in relation to education in our country, the result remains shocking. Half of our young people who graduate from high school appear rather to be very functionally about amphibians. Our country is last in the European Union in terms of human resources skills and in the last place in all Member States of the European Union to participate in adult education and training programmes. Listen to one more thing: In the next 20 years, in the next 20 years, for young people between 15 and 16 years old who will enter secondary and higher education there is a very unfavourable prediction that they will be reduced by 23%. We live in the era of the fourth industrial revolution. The knowledge and in particular the skills offered by the Greek education system to its citizens, according to common confession, fall short of the needs of the economy, society and the market. We have inflation of formal qualifications and postgraduate qualifications and, unfortunately, we find that our businesses find it difficult to find managers meeting the requirements of their activities. Every government of postmulsion has been tempted to propose a new plan for upgrading, reforming and modernising. In the field of vocational education in particular, there have been so many approaches that it is worth wondering how, with so many different recipes, the poor relative of the education system remains. The proposed bill came with the ambition of making vocational schools the valuable arm of education as a whole, as the government says. Finally, it is mainly a codification of existing provisions or a reintroduction of provisions which have been in force in the past and which have been abolished. It does not introduce any innovation and is not, although it has been sufficiently advertised, reform. For example, this bill perpetuates the tradition of a enlarged, centralised, inefficient state that continues to close the eye in appointments that ensure university heavy papers to candidate parents. It contains the same elements of committees and councils that have never worked and which have made all previous legislation on vocational education and training ineffective, finally, that if they are not removed from the draft law, they will not be able to become a development tool and bring results. It is trying to settle situations, without sectors and without changes in the definition of a strategy for vocational education and training. Nowhere are any instruments, procedures, results monitoring indicators, evaluation and policy remodelling tools, so that the results can be assessed from the implementation of specific policies in vocational education. It carries very outrageously important regulations to the sole responsibility of the Minister, with numerous authorizing provisions. It does not deal with aspects of postnatal and post-training training and leaves unfamiliar schools - utility, dance schools, theatre, artistic schools - regardless of whether they are the responsibility of the Ministry of Education or other ministries. It manages a centralised, party-controlled mechanism through the General Secretariat of Vocational Training and Youth. It runs counter to the decentralisation and the effort made by the Pissaridis Commission and that you are supposed to have accepted. Finally, with only full education, 15-year-olds are pushing into an anti-educational choice through postnatal training. This function of postnatal training seems to be directly undermined by vocational schools. If something urgently needs today, it is a bold, comprehensive, central, development entrepreneurship and innovation project, a fundamental part of which is modern and strong vocational education. Instead, we are triumphant today with the settlement of the existing anarchist landscape. In fact, vocational education is not regulated by the proposed bill. Actually, he's silent. Article 1. We have a large number of terms and structures, i.e. PSE, PSE, PES, PES, IEK, Teaching Class. Believe me, this differentiation is confusing. The different level ranking creates inequality, so there are schools such as the PSEs, without any interest. Of about a hundred who were to be founded in Greece by n.4186/2013, few were finally created. It is therefore necessary seven years later to rationalise, integrate and simplify conditions with a new codification, always linked to national objectives, national levels of education and specific professional rights. Article 2. It remains attached to old educational models. It is inspired by an anachronistic design. Imagine that he is still talking about time schedules, while modern educational perceptions have long been changed. The IEKs are now part of the formal occupational system. In consultation, as you all remember, it was in her unformal piece. In Levels 3 and 5 of the National Qualifications Framework there is no reliable and scientifically organized training structures covering exclusively vocational training structures. Article 6. Here, the bill describes the link between vocational education and training and the production and the labour market. Both the Central Council of Vocational Education and Training and the Association Councils with Production and the Labour Market, which will propose national vocational education policy, will capture at best current and local needs, but based on what each member may know personally. I ask: should this link not be established on a professional and scientific basis? How will the institutions set up to respond to market and vocational education and training requirements? With what proportionate studies, with which central design to connect to development, with which national planning, with which tools to detect needs and policy make? Article 9. It refers to the establishment of OAS Professional Training Schools and Professional Learning Schools, which you know are essentially covering the entire level 3 of the National Qualifications Framework, but experience has shown that it is impossible to substantially upgrade the qualifications of our country's human resources. The Schools of Vocational Training, the PSEs, are established under the law for graduates of the high school, after a certificate of Graduation 3 of the National Qualifications Framework, and it is essentially revitalization with a charming remodelling of the Vocational Training Schools, the TECs, the Law 4186/2013. As for OAUs, in practice they are downgraded, since they are converted into training schools and graduates' degrees are now classified in Level 3 of the National Qualification Framework, instead of Level 4 that was in place before. Article 16. The title of the bill aspires to present a single vocational education and training system at the outset. However, the basic structure of vocational education, which is none other than vocational schools, is completely lacking, which marks their most obvious degradation. It should be institutionalised - this is our proposal - as an equal pillar with general education, as has been the case over all these years. By legislating only PSAI standards and not experimentally, which we are proposing, you deprive you of those structures where innovations, new curricula, new educational methodologies. Article 35. Postal year, class of apprenticeship of the ESDP. It is now defined as an autonomous and independent vocational training structure, with Level 5 certification. It operates under the supervision of the General Secretariat and not of the ESDPs, which is its natural site, thus creating an additional concentration of inefficiency in the process and in practice all this is certain to function inhibitingly. There is a need for organised apprenticeship structures, which will coordinate both the theoretical training place and the enterprises that will employ the apprentices, and this need today is imperative. Centres for Lifelong Learning: In practice, the bill comes and abolishes all Centres for Lifelong Learning Level 1, removing permission from thousands of businesses. This licence and the conversion of Free Studies Centres - because that is where we started - in Centres for Lifelong Learning was one of the most basic policies of the 2010 PASOK, and the aim was then to put in order an irresponsible landscape and to meet at least minimal prerequisites for safety and hygiene as far as the provision of educational services is concerned. Instead of coming and establishing a escalating quality and licensing framework that allows both the operation and the licensing of small and medium-sized continuing training and lifelong learning units, you are urging and entering the logic without dialogue to close thousands of companies for the benefit of a few large groups. I will not talk about Chapter IV, the other provisions. Here, really, it's what was unfinished at the Ministry. It's a broom. Inadmissible, however, are the tactics in Articles 121 to 123 which refer to the filling of posts of temporary Directors of Education, on matters relating to the setting up of the Boards of Directors of Education and on their establishment. You know very well that there will be no elected members of the elections. You create and do not solve problems, Minister, setting up practically service councils with appointed members. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill on vocational education, in order to be able to act as law and indeed to determine the country's productive potential, is necessary to change visually. The government is now coming and kicking out a unique opportunity, the operation of educational training units, covering the entire range of qualifications, in the middle levels 3, 4, 5 of the National Qualifications Framework, on the one hand, a distinct and reliable training course for vocational education, on the other, and an equal alternative for teenagers, who dare not have as a unique dream to save it and, on the other, to enter a university school. Madam Minister, yesterday we have developed in a concise way an integrated proposal for a modern, worthwhile, attractive to young technical training children, which we believe will give thought and a real dilemma of choosing the Greek families between equal levels of education. This will say for us 'I turn vocational education from a solution to an attractive perspective' and we believe that we are also contributing to today's debate. We propose a vocational education and training that will provide valuable staff to tomorrow's site, specializing in their subject matter, without neglecting or undermining the general field of knowledge that the state should offer to each student and to every student. The proposal has been tabled. I will say in summary - because time runs - the following. As regards the organisation and governance of vocational education and training, we propose the setting-up of a central political body for vocational education, which will shape national policy, involving productive ministries, social partners and self-government, operating at both central and regional levels of Classical/sectoral Councils of Capacity, strengthening the Regional Committees of Vocational Education and Training, developing and updating a National Lifelong Learning Program. In Chapter B, where we are talking about the development of reliable vocational training units, we have developed a grid of fourteen essentially targeted points in order to have organised training units that will provide level 5 qualifications and act as higher schools. There will be the establishment of Vocational Education and Training Bodies, which will integrate both existing and new vocational training and training units, creating brand names and development opportunities in respect of vocational training. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need some time. Strengthen and substantially upgrade the basic pillar of secondary vocational education, which is the professional high school, the operation of experimental educational units at all levels of vocational education, which will act as innovation cells, through the experimental implementation of new curricula and association with other educational institutions and with similar thematic areas through enterprises, apprenticeship systems having a two-tier system, because it will include all bodies and apprenticeship programmes mainly Level three, four, four and five, the establishment of intermediate apprenticeship management bodies, which will act as an intermediate link between educational structures and business, introduction of the institution of paid practical training to the training and training units of level three, four, and five, and not to the professional process to be continued. In addition, the upgrading of the Institutes of Vocational Training, which will complement the basic structures of vocational training, the operation of liaison offices in educational institutions, as a link between vocational education and the labour market, the strengthening of vocational guidance at school - in high school, above all - to develop a system of evaluation of the characteristics of pupils and to identify their gradients and specific skills, essential. Real and effective permeability of all systems, from primary to tertiary, a single framework for the licensing and operation of Centres for Lifelong Learning. Furthermore, establishing an integrated quality framework for vocational education, covering all its characteristics, and finally, new curriculum programmes, which will review or update existing ones, exploiting a terrible mechanism that we have in our hands, the mechanism for the diagnosis of labour market needs, where one can understand the dynamism, employment trends, unemployment, entrepreneurship and the skills that people need. Establishment of a National Qualifications Framework and correspondence with the titles in the formal piece of education in the non-formal and informal and finally, the formulation and introduction of the system of validation of knowledge, skills and competences through the EEA. In conclusion, I would like to say that this is a bill that is weak to meet the real needs of the country, society and, finally, the economy itself and the modern market, which you so often invoke. Instead of targeting higher as far as the level of qualification is concerned, with tools for smart skills of executives and with more qualifications and education - all of which will contribute to the recovery of the country - you are promoting youth in life-long moderateness. Because I do not want to ask you a question, Minister, if the Change Movement agrees and will vote in favour of the multimodalism that you brought together with the Co-Presponsible Ministers, with the emblematic provision that you have made since yesterday, for the 104 million digital training of young people, I say to you that 'yes', because we are not the same as everyone else. We are oppositioning, proposing the good of the place without bumpers, unlike you, in the New Democracy, where every good idea, if it is not blue or if it is not painted in blue, when it is not from your own executives or executives who have obtained a transcription, ceases to be a good idea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u12	And I thank Mrs. Kefalidou. The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Delis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u13	For years now, ladies and gentlemen, the ministers of education and their governments have been telling them that they are not listening. But what do students have been calling for for years with teachers in vocational training? Firstly, they are struggling and claiming to have modern and adequate laboratories, not the sarcastic and few, which are usually present today. They also ask for their modern equipment to be appropriate. They even call on all the necessary teachers to be recruited from the beginning of the year and to be permanent, not with a suitcase in the hand and every year in a different place and school in the country. Young people and young people also claim their right to study in the specialities they choose and want, and not to be forced to pursue skills which are irrelevant to their preferences, often even half the way of their studies, depending on the sections that each school has, or because their specialty or sector has been abolished at school. They also claim their working and insurance rights, during their apprenticeship or practical experience, to be complete and substantial. They want the certification of their professional knowledge to exist within their degree, rather than running and spending on the paradoxes and the kind of paper they sell expensively from the training dealers. They are vindicated, because they see every day that they need radical changes in their curriculum curriculum, so that they can respond to modern developments in science and technology. Is that too much? Isn't that reasonable? Isn't that necessary? Whoever's talking about upgrading to vocational training, isn't that what it's supposed to do before all? Now, if you ask what he does and what he provides for all of this or even some of these today's bill, the answer is nothing, nothing at all. It is no coincidence that, even if you look in the hundreds of so many articles in this bill, you will not find an article, but a word on improving the infrastructures and workshops of vocational education. But how will anyone find out, when the budget voted on the day before yesterday went below 30 million this year, out of the 85 that he was, went to 56 of the year? And this reduction is not just about cleaning and moving, Minister, who changed code. Don't try to hide behind your finger. The bill, therefore, which we are discussing today, has nothing to do with the need for our time for quality and upgraded vocational education or of course for diplomas that will have a real impact. It is now also added to that long chain of legislation of the last thirty years, which, while speaking in the name of upgrading, ultimately undermined the studies and the future of students. Remember the TELs of the 1990s, after the Arseni TEI of Arseni, after Mrs Giannakou's PPA, after the new PPA of Mr Arvanitopoulos and the last "year of apprenticeship" of SYRIZA before arriving at the current New Democracy bill. These changes did not bring any upgrades at all, because they simply had and still had another goal. Who? To satisfy the requirements of BSE and business groups to have cheap, flexible, fresh, young workforce, consumable in their investment business in our country. They do not, of course, call it 'associated with the market' and 'harmonisation with the labour market', but that is what they mean. The New Democracy bill therefore implements almost everything that BSE has asked for since last summer and that is why the BSE crisis has already thanked it discreetly, as were the other employers - ungrateful - at the last meeting we had with the institutions. How can not all of them, who, while being majestic, appear to be "social partners", say, something like partners, say, with their workers, when, with the bill, all of them catch raisins everywhere, in all the institutions, central, regional and sectoral sectors, provided for in the bill. To do what in these instruments? In order to introduce skills and areas of vocational training, however, to intervene in its detailed programmes in order to promote the development of very specific skills. On what criterion? But with the on-line needs of their businesses, both locally and centrally. This mechanism is not new. All the previous laws provided for him, the New Democracy did not discover him. SYRIZA, of course, maintained him and used him. And all this appears neutrally as a definition, he says, of qualifications from the labour market. However, this design from one hand creates disposable graduates for employers, with skills which are deceived in a short time, and on the other hand does not guarantee students the choice of specialty they want, regardless of the area they live in. It is a typical example that the Ministry uses here. The emphasis on tourism for the Cyclades and in the energy sector for western Macedonia suggests that there will be, in particular, the specialities offered for the children who live there. The new quality element, of course, introduced by the bill in Articles 9 to 15, is the establishment, immediately after the high school, of the two-yearly Vocational Training Schools, the PSE, a category to which the OAED Vocational Schools are part. These will be provided after level 3 examinations, i.e. qualification and certification with even lower professional, wage and labour rights than level 4 of the ESDP. This, of course, is a net deterioration for the OPCWs, which so far give a level 4 certificate. So the concerns of both the current students and the old graduates of these OAED schools about the deterioration of their degrees, and the concern about a routed, perhaps squeeze of the OAED apprenticeship schools, and that is why the reaction of teachers to EPAS and OAED's IEKs, who demand, with their struggle and today, that their working rights be guaranteed in law. Are all these people misinformed? Are they wrong to worry? Here the GFCM spokesman himself, in committee with the bodies, expressed his concern about early training, saying that these vocational training schools are actually undermining the PES. According to the bill, students from fifteen and from the first day on receive practical apprenticeships while attending theoretical laboratory courses. In other words, 15-year-olds are being thrown away from schools and are being driven to training and minor work. This is the current, modern face of brutality in the 21st century, minor work, which will be subsidized by the state, in the context of active policies, as you say, fresh, younger workforce, free for business. If you're going to give the businessmen money, you get it in the pitch fuse. It is characteristic that there is nothing in the bill to reward students' practice and insurance. Everything is referred to as ministerial decisions. Conclusion: Students are completely cut off, even earlier than their right to general education and from all those general education courses they need so much, language, history, physics, chemistry, artistic education, to develop their personality independently of their profession. We do not consider the privilege of university students alone, only those who have a university degree, the right to general education. All people have that right. But anyone who lacks knowledge, you know, eventually has a negative effect on any professional activity, since he will not have that knowledge in order to understand the subject of his work more deeply. From infrastructure, let go of it. Vocational training schools will be housed in workshops at workshops and schools, i.e. in the already antiquated, incomplete and often inappropriate facilities. As for teachers in these vocational schools, the bill provides that they will not be permanent. They will not even be teachers but trainers, he says, with a recognized qualifications or even professional experience experts. With the bill, of course, there is a step further, since these PSEs may also be private as well. That is, if a dairy industry in a region needs a skilled workforce in its industry, it will be able to set up a vocational training school, get workers from its own school, with its own analytical programmes, with free apprenticeships and labour force, because all this will be subsidised by the state, and all good and good! When the time comes for this investor to change activity and industry, all these children, all these workers stay in the cold of the bath. So, you say, it'll close the famous skills gap that the market wants and it doesn't find. The majority rapporteur has said so too. Only in this way will the other, the deepest gap, which exists between the interests of young people and the interests of the big bosses. Because while young people are looking for quality studies and degrees that will ensure their work with rights in the field of their studies and, of course, others, the big bosses want a flexible workforce to be exploited, which will be able to withdraw and replace it with the new models of training. As you can see, the gap is bare because it is classic and with today's bill this gap is not only small, but is growing. The problem, therefore, is not incompetent pupils, unskilled pupils and workers or workers without skills. The problem is the capitalist market that for profits and flexible cheap labour deprives education as early as possible to provide early integration into exploitation and job insecurity. Finally, the market is not the solution, as you claim from morning to night. The market is the problem. And, of course, the economy and production can be organized in another way - history has proved it - in a socialist way that corresponds to the needs of people, namely, and it will not be the jungle we live in today. The establishment of the PESD models in the bill leads to the categorisation of these high schools with a view to creating - it is obvious - an abundance of PES schools for the needs of enterprises, and changes are also provided for in the IEKs in the Vocational Training Institutes. I'm talking about public service. It is planned to close the small public IEC. Only those with at least two hundred students will stay in Athens and Thessaloniki and the rest of the towns that have more than a hundred students. This means very simply that other ways are being opened to increase clientele in the private IEKs that are multiplying. Instead of satisfying the fair demands of the students of the IEK and abolishing the circular that provides for the unpaid and uninsured practice of these students, instead of abolishing the tuition fees, instead of giving all unemployed students unemployment benefit, instead of giving everyone a pass, instead of ensuring that the practice of having insurance cover, care, funding infrastructure, structures, equipment and workshops, what are you doing? Lead the young people of the popular families to put their hand in the pocket deeper and send them to the fingernails of the schoolchildren with "Tirot" the rankings, he says, at the university. At the same time, however, in the same bill - the time you stubbornly refuse to meet the most basic needs of students - in a challenging way in Article 116 you have been legislating on funding from the Greek state fund of Fulbright, an institution of State Department, the United States Ministry of Foreign Affairs with a very dark, assured past in our country since the days of the Civil War. The money of our people, that is, instead of giving it to the needs of their children, you give it to beat your allies American imperialists. In short, the legislation on vocational education is a continuation of the attack - only if it was not - on content and on cultural rights. It is an integral part of the anti-government attack on the life and labour rights of workers, who are undergoing a full-time and multi-faceted attack. It is no coincidence that his statement is combined with a forthcoming bill that overturns labour rights, brings about the generalization of uninsured work, the introduction of 10 hours of work, the abolition of eight hours, the increase in unpaid overtime, the abolition of Sunday holidays, the cracking of collective agreements. Nor is it a coincidence, we believe, that his vote at the same time as the government's unacceptable earlier announcements of a new system of access to universities which for the first time enables the university departments to determine the minimum import base. Where does that lead? Basically, no longer will the candidates choose their schools, but the schools will choose them. Are they being cut or not with such feathers of thousands of students who dream of studying? Does this raise or not the tank of young children who will be taken immediately after high school in vocational schools and underage work? We are, of course, voting against the bill as well as most of its articles. I should like to close, Mr President, on the occasion of the request for unconstitutionality from the Change Movement. Of course, it is not just an unconstitutional matter. It is of fundamental political importance, above all. So far we have had the so-called Greek-German Fund for the Future. Now we have the Greek-German Youth Foundation. In the bill comes the contract for the establishment of this institution, which enables the German Government to infiltrate Greek education, schools and universities with supposedly powerless programs, such as MOG, in the Greek "Memory from the Occupation in Greece", which is prepared and funded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany itself. Why? To try openly or covertly the counterfeiting, the review of the history of our country's Occupation. It is the same Ministry, of the same government, of the same state that has stubbornly refused to pay off the debts of the German state since the Nazi occupation in our country. Here we have to say that there is another thing about relations and friendship between the Greek people and the German people, which must of course be developed, and it is quite another thing that the political pursuits of the German governments which are designed not to give Germany the compensation due to Greece. They say it's open. The maintenance of the historical memory, however, ladies and gentlemen, also involves claiming the German debts of the Occupation. We owe that. We owe it to the memory of the thousands of victims of the Nazi atrocities in our country. We owe it to the Cesareans. We owe it to the Kalavritas, Distomos, Hortiatis, Cantanos, so many martial places. So withdraw this article. Listen to the appeal, anyway, from the National Council for the Claiming of Germany's debts to Greece. Listen to the call of the Network of Testimonial Cities and Villages of Greece from the "Greek Holocausts" and withdraw this article. I present the memorandum from the National Council and the Network of Testimonial Cities in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Delis. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Sophia Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, vocational training is a very important instrument which can help achieve objectives both economic and social. At the same time, through its effective link to the labour market, it can be a lever for growth on the one hand, but also a strong tool for achieving a high level of employment in the context of sustainable economic growth. Vocational training and training generally comprises all the activities organised, with the aim of offering those who choose it both skills and skills sufficient and necessary. Its importance is constantly growing. The professional level has an increasing influence on the prospects and opportunities provided. This is why education systems must be able to meet the current labour market needs. In addition, lifelong learning is considered a key element in the further development of vocational education and training. It must be a reality for everyone. Continuing training is of particular importance, particularly as a result of the introduction of new technologies into production and new data as a whole. It is extremely crucial for young Greeks and Greek women to be able to find immediate work and even to do so. Another major wound is those of our young people who left in the years of the crisis and the memorials to find jobs in countries outside Greece. We must give them opportunities and opportunities to return to our country. Unfortunately, there is a lot of provisions in this bill, which talk about caring and vocational training for illegal immigrants. As we also see at the same time many provisions which speak of linking with NGOs. On the one hand, you refer to the cooperation of the Central Scientific Committee set up with other bodies, on the other hand, that they can be characterised as standards of professional high school and PES which belong to legal persons of a non-profit character. The examples are many. The CED of course includes annual expenditure on the payment of compensation to its members. No omission when it comes to their wages. But when it comes to other years and constant problems there the omissions give and take. But there are many councils that we have seen in this bill and by ignoring this fact, you also have the opportunity to appoint experts as well. You see, it's not enough multi-member boards. They need more. You recommend to every region of the country an eleven-member association council with production and the labour market is supposed to link study to the labour market. In practice, however, there seems to be more bureaucracy. We are now going to the vocational training schools and OAED's professional apprenticeship schools. You say that among their aims are care for the integration into working life of vulnerable and vulnerable social groups. But what you are not saying, but we are going to say, is that people with cultural peculiarities or linguistic peculiarities and illegal immigrants are also integrated into vulnerable and vulnerable social groups. In addition, private vocational training schools are established. However, what we also said at the Commission meeting is that in the operating regulations of the OAS and the OAS of Education, it is also necessary to introduce the evaluation of teachers, which is of major importance. The two-year course in PSEs and EPAS creates some reservations as to the full and substantial assimilation of knowledge and skills provided through the educational process. When we talk about the administration and staffing of vocational training schools, it should be understood that the manager will come from education. But it's not. It is necessary to provide for the upgrading of qualifications in vocational education and training for those who had graduated in the past through examinations or even some simulation of those covered by the regime in question. With regard to the Professional Lyceum Standards, it is laid down that the number of importers will be determined by a decision of the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, which will be issued by the end of April each year after the opinion of the Central Scientific Committee. But we do care about the substance. So, who's gonna decide? The ERC's recommendation or the Minister's? Practical practice during study should also be more than one day of the week for six hours. A very critical issue of the present is the issue of public IEK, of which at the end of two consecutive years of training from the year 2020-2021 and thereafter, those with a total annual number of students, who are trained not more than one hundred in the region and the two in Athens, Piraeus and Thessaloniki will be suspended or merged with other public IEKs. In particular, the Greek region needs public IEKs. This is a regulation which is completely in contradiction with the current needs of the Greek society and the economy. You refer to the establishment of experimental and thematic IEC. First of all, there is no need for this distinction. Everything should be experimental. Secondly, you are talking about converting into an experimental or thematic IEC which belongs to legal persons of a non-profit character and which are not financed from public resources. Can we also know who these NGOs are? In addition, distance education in the IEKs must be the exception, not the rule. The rule must be lifelong education. It goes without saying that the possibility of organising and operating foreign-language departments addressed to foreign citizens of countries within or outside the European Union is also possible. Greek taxpayers pay. Because you are also referring to a public IEK to form illegal immigrants. Where did it sound? We do not see a reward for those trained in public and private IEKs who can carry out part of their theoretical or laboratory training in certified training providers based in Member States - Member States of the European Union. The Director of the IEK - we stressed and stressed - must be involved in education. Questions about the liability allowance give rise to questions as to whether there might be a misuse of positions for him. What we do not negotiate is: in public IEK the language must be only Greek. Why are you saying that with CFD the language of teaching can be decided in the foreign-language sections of IEK. Below, what has to do with secondary vocational training, we are going to ask again: When will the certification tests be carried out by the EEAS, given that the B course is part of the ESRB, but has there not been any action to be taken? In addition, the specialities of the "Medal Year - Class of Learning" should be clarified that they will not be abolished, but new ones will be added. At the same time, in the administration of apprenticeship classes clearly the coordinators must come from the field of education. The possibility of removing skills without even setting out the criteria that will lead to this choice, such as extremely limited participation, will lead young people to choices that they do not want. We have called for and demanded that the criteria for special scientists be defined in relation to the drafting of training guides. In addition, the certification examinations of the graduates of the PSEs, IEKs and the "Metaly Year of Learning" are necessary on a regular and accurate basis. Prerequisite for access to level 6 of the National Qualifications Framework of Graduates IEK and the "Medical Year - Class of Learning" are the ranking examinations. In the provisions now dealing with the national qualifications framework, we consider that unfair competition is being created in terms of diplomas and postgraduate diplomas from abroad. At the same time, qualifications should be more specific, while its competent bodies are indeed many. But clearly, if we wanted to talk about bias and transparency, the EEA certification tests should only be carried out by the State. You are also doing a reason for indemnity in working groups without any further clarification. In the Centres for Lifelong Learning we consider it and we have pointed it out that the instructor must in any case have certification. More generally, the follow-up of programmes at the Centres for Lifelong Learning is very vaguely the same as that for the remuneration of practical training. It shall also not be understood as a certification without an examination. The full digitisation of their files and forms, if any, should be the best option, and what is foreseen is printed, it would be appropriate to keep them in electronic form at the same time. But you are not telling us the three-member committees for the supervision of the Lifelong Learning Centres from whom they will be. Moreover, you are talking about their special funding, without saying whether it is public or private. Did you forget it or don't you obviously want to tell us? There is also provision for the possibility of abolishing the Public Centre for Lifelong Learning. What kind of expenses can come from her, though? With regard to schooling at Second-Second Opportunity Schools, preparatory courses of Greek language for migrants and refugees can be run and financed from national resources. What else are you going to do about illegal immigrants anymore? Please refer to this in the authorizing provisions below. We believe that it is only a few hours of work to provide advisory services. As far as education and training is concerned in detention stores, the operation of educational structures should only apply to Greek prisoners. In the provisions on Greek-language, the same. Will the Greek be taught to illegal immigrants and is an examination procedure for the certification of Greek level A2 to those? I mean, that's enough. You change name in the General Secretariat of Vocational Education, Training and Lifelong Learning for no reason, while you do not mention the exact composition of the renamed and increase the addresses. In the provisions for the Youth Directorate, you are talking about actions and ensuring that refugees and immigrants are supported. You care more for anyone but the Greeks. You are increasing the organic posts for appointment 'the next', you are charging the budget by 300 thousand euros. You create new personal positions with the heads of organic units. You are talking about co-operation with civil society actors and there is no complete lack of transparency in its scientific service. Below, the College Teachers' Register should be required to produce the penal register. We disagree with the grant at the American Educational Foundation of Greece. We believe that the Minister of Education's intervention in matters of care breaks is unrealistic. We're talking about private business. For the State certificate of Language Learning, which criteria will the institutions be chosen? In the awards of excellence, illegal immigrants will be funded, even via the IKY. As regards the European Union directive 2018/958, there are issues of principle of non-discrimination on grounds of nationality, which does not protect us against illegal immigrants at all. Also, from the agreement between Greece and Germany for the Youth Foundation, Greece does not seem to have any specific benefit. We in the Greek Solution believe and support the connection between vocational education and the labour market. Greeks must be able to find work immediately and, indeed, the work they have chosen and loved and not end up doing forced jobs that they do not want or go abroad. We are, however,'residents' at first instance in the bill. Because we are against vocational education and training for illegal immigrants. Because we are against the country's settlement procedures with illegal immigrants. Because we are against vocational education and training even of the minors of illegal immigrants who are in detention stores. All these years you have not been interested in the respective Greeks. Now all of a sudden I got you pains for minors illegal immigrants? Your bill is full of such provisions clearly and secretly. That's too bad! Now stop as a government as a whole this tactic you are following in almost all the bills you bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said from the outset that after Mrs Sakova's suggestion, we will discuss unconstitutionalism. About 15 minutes. We've already announced it. The floor is given by the Special Rapporteur of Mera25 and Vice-President of the House, Mrs Sakorafa.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the debate in the committee it has been found that vocational education has been left to its fate over the last decade, that he is the poor relative in the grid of the education structures of the country and that the need for its reform is urgent. At the same time, with the exception of the BSE representative, all the bodies found that the provisions being voted on do not meet the requirements of society and youth and their parents, who were not already invited to the committee and who did not listen to their views. This is obviously not to confirm the assessment that this draft law does not meet the needs of young people and society. It is a draft law that prosecutes children of working and popular classes from the school, to make them prematurely in vocational education and vocational training from the 15 years and to raise the most inexpensive class barriers to society. In Merra25, we attach great importance to technical and vocational education, but also to training. We believe that children who turn to vocational training are not the children who don't get the letters. They are the children of the workers and of the people's families who are looking for an outlet of employment and work to contribute to family income. They are those children whose environment cannot support education in high school or higher education. The government's idealism, instead of supporting these children, is vengeanced. They are denied general education, knowledge of history, literature, philosophy, economics. It is matched by BSE, which in committee has characterised this knowledge as unnecessary and useless for this field of education, and it has decided that this knowledge should be brought to an end in compulsory secondary education. As if it were the same to understand and teach the Greek Revolution, the Asia Minor Destroyment, Seferis, Elytis, Levadite, Ludemi and Vizeni, the twelve-year-old and the seventeen-year-old. This "usable" knowledge, however, is giving conscientiousness, emotional intelligence and ultimately leading to understanding the idea and concept. Of course, the oligarchic concept of society, which the government has in the idea of falsifying excellence, denies the difficult knowledge in society. He holds it for the few, for those who have, because of their financial potential, a very young lead in experience, stimulus and supervisory means. The ones that are meant to dominate. Many should only get used to the environment of unpaid, insecure, underage work, a low-quality apprenticeship, premature and rapid, without supervisory means, in a context where normality will be problematic for distance learning, as OLAF underlines in its memorandum. OLEME stressed that vocational training schools, established by the bill, will not be schools, but anti-educational structures, while the training will not be done by teachers, but by low-qualified and underpaid teachers. However, the discussion in committee revealed that the skilled craftsman of today must have a strong knowledge of mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, information technology and technology. It has been shown that internationally the trend is to retreat early vocational training, even in Germany or Finland, and to enrich education programmes with more complex cognitive objects. Otherwise, technical training cannot follow the progress of engineering and technology, which in terms of materials, software and the ability to use machinery is becoming increasingly demanding and in theoretical knowledge. It is therefore not the training that cannot meet the needs of the market. It is the anachronistic concept of the market which cannot absorb modern technical education, as the GSE has rightly noted. What GSEV representatives have stressed is the deterioration of these schools, of which graduation is prerequisite in the first grade of high school. So the knowledge of physics and biology will now give level 3 and not 4, as in the past. While the NRAs provided most of the students with supplies to adults, this bill will no longer receive students after the seventeenth year of their age. The anti-education philosophy of the bill being passed also appears in order of other arrangements. Indicatively, the absence of teachers from the bodies responsible for the governance of vocational education at central and regional level, the generalization of the non-involvement of teachers in technical education, the placement of non-educational structures in these structures, the leakage of these schools from the educational control of the Ministry of Education. Consideration is given to greater consideration, since the possibility of setting up vocational training schools is also provided in the private sector. In the market culture, with the closest local perception, the establishment of PSAs is being legislated. PAPAL, which you will call'standards' to serve the government's expression of excellence. They will not, however, have any standard character, subject only to the degree of graduation of the high school for admission to them. Another case is the fragmentation of education, the creation of yet another anti-educational caste and yet another speed, which does not make it attractive or competitive in technical education and training. The PES students will be required a week to receive practical training of six hours, within workplaces, which will be chosen by the regional councils, in opaque terms, but also in opaque procedures, not in the school environment, with enormous risks for the flow of educational work, as OLAF and OLAF underlined. You are abandoning the fully successful educational program "A new start in PPAS", while compressing the "Medal Year - Class of Learning", which has shown that it can provide solutions. Government intentions are becoming more identifiable by studying the arrangements for IEKs. The IEK, in particular the public, will have no director in the future but director-manager. In addition, in order to avoid the need for infrastructural investment, IEKs will now have the possibility of full distance training. The private IEK market is intensified at the expense of the public IEK, since public IEKs should have a minimum number of students in Athens and Thessaloniki, while in the rest of Greece a hundred. In areas which will not be created, due to a lack of students, public IEK, students will be forced to register in private IEKs, which will normally operate without a numerical restriction. Private IEK schools will also have other possibilities to rebuild, ladies and gentlemen. Students from IEK to tertiary education can be introduced in a way that circumvents the entire Greek examinations. At the same time, the certification market is being financed, which is now being measurably entrusted to the private sector. A memorandum from OELEK describing the sale of the public good of education and the risk of the market flooding with illegal or marginal and out-of-date certifications from private education was presented on this matter. This market by schoolchildren will therefore be advertised as an improper for entry into the university, but also for the condemnation of the procedures for the certification of the National Qualifications System, in addition to Union policies, which also poses the institutional risk of facing a future overall problem of credibility in our educational system. Minister, we are not obsessed, but we are perfectly pragmatic when we demand that technical and vocational education be of a strong public character and, in particular, a school character for the post-mortem years. In addition, we believe that in order for vocational education to make sense, certification should be integrated into the curriculum. RESEARCH has indicated the serious shortcomings in lifelong learning, as well as in the Second Opportunity School, which has been a very important way out for vulnerable and vulnerable social groups, as well as institutional reintegration in detention stores. In committee, ladies and gentlemen, I expressed my concern that the text of the bill has a number of powers, without an interpretative framework, which allows the Minister, but also at low-level levels of management, to regulate in due course and in opaque procedures very important aspects of vocational education in a sector, in fact, that absorbs funds, national and Union-wide, very important amounts, which are multiplied by the NSRP strategies. I was also surprised to hear the large number of provisions that are irrelevant to the subject of the bill, but, nonetheless, they are incorporated into it, as are yesterday's multi-purpose ministerial amendment at the last minute. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a legal issue here. Each one of these provisions should have a separate arrangement, in own-initiative bills, with specific recitals and, of course, with exhaustive debate. And yet this vague and fragmentary legislation is a consistent practice of the government and this Parliament is insulting. I see, however, a number of fundamental issues too. In short: In Article 114, regarding local post notices, the local training director will be able to act independently, bypassing the pan-Hellenic tables. Article 110 ceases to involve a elected representative of the employees at the Board of Directors of the highly successful Sivitanide School. In Article 123, there is an attempt to slap successful institutions, such as councils, where they are attempting to be staffed through the electronic elections alone, elections in which the educational community has turned back and participated in a minimal and unrepresentative percentage. My lady Minister pointed out that swimming in education was introduced by bill. Swimming, however, will not be taught exclusively by sciences of physical treatment specializing in swimming. So the question arises, in principle, of the safety of children, students, and other objective problems, such as travel, time available, swimming pools and so on. But then we see that the government is discovering resources to finance the activities of the Fulbright Foundation in Greece, the Foundation whose administration is appointed by its honorary president, the American Ambassador in Greece. It does not, however, find money to ensure free, stable and unlimited internet access or computers and tablets to students. In the parliamentary control of 4 April, I requested, among other things, the grant of EUR 400 for computers for those who needed it. Today, eight months later, the Minister announced the glazed voucher of at least EUR 200, which needs to be complemented by the family budget, without any provision for internet connection. I'm on my way. Our deserted country cannot be inhabited by a normal society. This is exactly what 'corrects' the bill. It creates the nomads of modern cities, people without permanent work, human hours and decent wages, with anti-government arrangements that have come and will come from a government on the foundations left by the SYRIZA Memorandum, people without residence and social reference to neighborhoods. The worker's residence is at risk from the new bankruptcy code and the amendment of the Katseli Act. Now comes the depreciation of technical education, in order to build cognitive and educational diversification with class criteria of eugenic type: The excellent against the nomads of modern cities, against those who have no right or no children. The expulsion of the children of popular families from school will push downwards and intolerability and childhood, so that there is no ground for its protection by means of positive discrimination. The children of the people's families will be trained by young people in underprivileged, unpaid and uninsured work and spent by their laxity to finance a stock exchange without object. This gracious future only by one factor is at risk, by a people with employment rights and dignity, who want and can claim the right to work and education, in order to win their economic, cultural and social liberation, a people who refuse to accept the fatality and the one-ways of black propaganda and when everyone thinks they have done it, has the courage and the courage to say 'no'. So in order to convince our people that there is no point in the hope that the world cannot change with these struggles, this historical truth must be deleted and its memory altered. His grand, patriotic and anti-fascist struggle, with the National Resistance, which incorporated an unprecedented social agenda, could not be one of the first goals in this design. It is not surprising, therefore, that in the legislation we are called upon to vote is to be ratified, in breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and of the Constitution, the international agreement on the Hellenic-German Youth Foundation, an agreement for which SYRIZA has a huge responsibility, which he prepared with the conclusion of the preliminary agreements in 2016 and 2017, an agreement signed on 4 July 2019 by the Ministerial Government. The National Council for claiming the debts of Germany to Greece revealed to the committee and the role that this Foundation will play, as well as other mechanisms of German propaganda aimed at alleviating the memory of the Nazi atrocity and at the same time discrediting our national resistance and any anti-fascist Greek effort, such as the fight of the unscrupulous fighters of the battle of Crete, which was not respected by the Minister of Culture who recently fought the Central Council of Modern Monuments, to approve the expansion of the quarry that destroys the theatre of this battle in the canyon of historical and witnessing Candan, where the Cretan people alone and uninhabited by the authority of the excellents humiliated Hitler was humiliated. We therefore call for this provision to be withdrawn, but also for the whole of it to be voted against the draft law on vocational training. We believe in hope and choose the aspect of education, memory and truth. We are and will be with society, together with the children who are being prematurely driven into this technical investment, the young fighters of Elytis, "the children with the sworn legs, who said them punks", the children who always choose the struggle for education and social liberation, the struggle that will not stop "until their dreams of vengeance". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. At this point we are discussing the objections raised by Mr Kegeroglou about the unconstitutionality of Articles 147 and 148, in particular the violation of Article 72 of the Constitution, in conjunction with the 65 paragraph. 1 and 28 paras. 1 of the Constitution. I would ask Mr Kegeroglu to speak as an objector, as they have objections to take the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, following on from our position in the Committee on Educational Affairs, as well as in the letter we sent to the President of Parliament, we asked for the withdrawal of Articles 147 and 148 of the draft law, concerning the ratification of the International Convention for the Establishment of Greek-German Youth Foundation, first of all for political and national reasons, since the promotion of the establishment of the Foundation is not related to Greece's global demand for the reimbursement of German debts and allowances, but it was also seen in the previous days and Germany's attitude to the issues that have to do with Turkey's provocative and aggressive initiatives. But my initiative is also a debt. It is a debt for the sacrifices in Distomos, Doxato, Nea Kerdylia, Kommenis Artas, Elatis, Domenikos, Kalavryta, Vianno, Candano, Chortiatis, in all the martyr villages and cities of Greece, in all the martyrical Greece, which today claims justice. It is our obligation to fight for the National Board of Appeal, which has led Vassilis Braaksouula, the former MP. It is our obligation to the network of martyr cities and sites, which has President of the Mayor of Kalavryton - and former MP - Athanasio Papadopoulos. I am tabling the joint memorandum to the Prime Minister and the political leaders on the introduction to the House of the ratification of the Convention, to which I referred. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would also point out that this convention was signed three days before the July national elections with a SYRIZA government, but it was effectively carrying out the debts of the government, and indeed by a person unknown and rather unauthorised, since we have so far not learned nor who was either with whose mandate it went. I asked SYRIZA for it. Today, in Parliament's plenary we object to the non-constitutionalism of Articles 147 and 148 of the bill, following what I have said, and ask that they be withdrawn. They infringe Article 28 of the Constitution, paragraph 1, for the ratification of an international convention with formal law, Article 72 in conjunction with paragraph 65 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament as a charter governing the democratic functioning of Parliament and, of course, the violation of Articles 108 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure which are being violated. I explain: As is well known, with Law 4561/2018 the Parliament ratified the International Convention that was then concluded between the relevant Ministries in order to prepare for the establishment of a Greek-German Youth Foundation. Then, on 4 July, as I said, three days before the elections, the government of the country of origin unknown signed the Convention with the Federal Government of Germany. We note that in this Convention, and today it is unclear who has represented or given the mandate to sign the Convention. In the duplicate there is only one monograph. Today, under Articles 147 and 148 of the ongoing draft law of the Ministry of Education, this Convention is introduced for discussion and ratification. However, as is well known, in accordance with Rule 28(1) of the Constitution and Articles 112 and 108 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, any international convention is entered for ratification in the Parliament by means of an independent draft law which is discussed and adopted by a special procedure rather than a fragmentation in the context of another non-related draft law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some more time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u20	Yeah, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u21	Yeah, I'm on it. In Article 28 of the Constitution, it is clear from the first paragraph, where explicit reference is made to ratification by formal law, so that the international treaty takes precedence over any other provision of law, that it makes a clear distinction between the law and the principle, medium and end of the provision of law. If you read the first verse, it will be understood, especially by non-parliamentaries, because constitutionalists can hear them about many things, but if you read this only, you understand that. The definition is clear. The editorial legislator explicitly predicted that ratification of an international treaty would be done by means of a formal law passed by Parliament. This is a prerequisite for becoming an international convention an integral part of Greek domestic law and even increased formality, in order to take precedence over other provisions. Indeed, as accepted by the legal theory, Article 28 of the Constitution refers to ratification rather than to ratification literally by formal law, which includes the ratification clause and the text of the Treaty, the original and the translation into the Greek language. This is the only way to incorporate international conventions into national law. This is reflected in the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament in application of the Constitution, and in particular in Article 112 which provides for the ratification of an international convention by a bill and not by seconded legislation. In fact, the debate and vote on the draft law by which an international convention is ratified is carried out by a special procedure under Article 108 rather than by the ordinary legislative procedure. Furthermore, it should be noted that this draft law, despite attempting to ratify an international convention, is not signed by the co-legislator, who, on the contrary, had signed the abovementioned law, Law No 4561/2018, which prepared the way for the establishment of the Foundation. Mr. Kotzias was then. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is a co-president of the Minister for Education, as this is an international educational contract, but which, both indirectly and directly affects our country's international relations with Germany. The institution concerned by the contract is an international organisation, in accordance with the first Article, and in the second and descriptions of the institution's mission, it is clear that this is intended for intercultural dialogue and mediation between the various organisations and civil society in Greece and Germany, areas that are primarily within the modern concept of cultural diplomacy and, in general, foreign policy, which is an unequivocal presumption of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the only person responsible for monitoring bilateral and international policies, for negotiating and taking care, for concluding, monitoring and implementing international treaties and other international instruments, as well as for the representation of Greece in foreign states, international organisations and other international bodies and conferences. These are directly derived from Article 1 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, L.3566/2007. Consequently, with the absence of the signature of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the formal requirement of Rule 85(7) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which requires each bill to be signed by all the relevant ministers, is not fulfilled. I am tabling five international conventions in the Minutes, all in the New Democracy Government and all with the signature of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, although they concern other ministries. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned sanctions, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ministry of Culture: In addition to the signature of Ms Mendoni and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Ministry of Tourism: In addition to the signature of Mr Theocharis and Mr Denkias, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Ministry of Citizen Protection: Apart from the signature of Mr Chrysochoidis and Mr Teddy, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Minister for Agriculture, in addition to the signature of Mr Voridis, Minister for Foreign Affairs Nikolaos Dendias. Finally, in the last example, apart from the signature of the Minister for Tourism, Mr. Theocharis, there is the signature of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Dendia. It's undeniable. Apart from all the political issues, regarding the Hellenic-German Youth Foundation, which has already been highlighted by us in the relevant Commission and today, there is also a clear question of unconstitutionality regarding the validity of the Convention and the provisions aimed at its ratification. Of course, the trick you have prepared for the signature of the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the final text by means of the amendment concerning the Ministry of Immigration, not only does it not remove unconstitutionality, but it validates it, because this trick you found to present to us today. After that, and for the above reasons, as I have set out and as we have set them out before, we are calling for the withdrawal of Articles 147 and 148 of the said draft law and for the re-deposit of the convention, of the articles, of the articles, of what you choose - as set out in the Constitution with the signature of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, can we get the documents from the Minutes, the documents it has submitted?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u24	You'll get them now. The rival is Mr. Ioannis Bougas from the New Democracy. Here, Mr Buga, you have the floor for five minutes and you with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I am not going to address the issues to which the honourable Member referred in his introductory speech, because they have nothing to do with unconstitutionalism. That is why we have tabled a motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and However, I will speak only on the issue of unconstitutionalism, as it is described in its relevant document for the non-constitutionality of the provisions which it invokes, as well as on what it has developed orally from the Step of Parliament. We must remember that this agreement has been negotiated for SYRIZA days and this agreement has been signed a few days before the elections. As is well known, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek state has a duty, with its signature being honoured, to introduce international conventions to the House. These contracts in globo must be approved, ratified or rejected by Parliament. We cannot, in other words, keep some articles from the convention and others to reject them. In total, it shall either be approved or rejected. There is therefore an issue that concerns SYRIZA in particular. Since SYRIZA negotiated, knowing the country's obligation to introduce this Convention into Parliament and also knowing that there is no possibility of further discussion and changes to these articles, today accepts, adopts or renounces its content? That is the issue. I now come to the specific issues of unconstitutionalism, just as they have been developed by my colleague. I shall start, Mr President, from Article 28, because this is what Mr Kegeroglu invoked to demonstrate unconstitutionality. It is therefore mentioned - and I am recognizing it so that there is no chance of omission of anything - that: "The generally acknowledged rules of international law, as well as international conventions, since their ratification by law and their entry into force under the terms of each of them, form an integral part of the domestic Greek law". So, Mr Colleague, the Constitution itself, the letter of the constitution gives the answer to your cause of unconstitutionalism, because it does not require an autonomous law, it merely requires a formal law. I do not want to remind you of the scientific question in the past as to whether a formal law is needed or whether it is sufficient to ratify the convention. These belong to the scientific debate. But the Constitution wants law in order to ratify the convention. So there is no need for an independent law. With regard to what you have said - and it is the next verse which I shall read - that it very much wants to see a law which takes precedence over any other provision of law, I think you have misinterpreted - I say this with all due respect and attention - the provision of the Constitution. Because this is mentioned in Article 28(1) of the Constitution to show that international conventions are more prestigious than ordinary law, but are lower than the Constitution. This is contrary to the subsequent provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of the same Constitution. So what you have relied on, I think it is unfounded. As regards, Mr President, the procedure in the Rules of Procedure referred to by my colleague, the Rules of Procedure in the Rule 112(1) stipulate that Parliament approves or rejects the bills and proposals of laws which ratify international treaties or international conventions without altering the content of the Treaties and conventions, what I mentioned before in globo ratification or rejection. Here it says: 'The ratification of the legislations and draft laws referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108'. In other words, there is the possibility that the conventions may also be discussed in the parliamentary committees and ratified in accordance with the abbreviation of Article 108, which I do not want to describe. Anyone who wants to can look for her in the Rules of Procedure of the House. But here we are given an extra opportunity to discuss in greater detail the provisions of the convention which are to be ratified and to place all my fellow Members. This position cannot bring about changes - I say this once again - but it can only be a form of suggestion to the government in a new negotiation in order to renegotiate and otherwise negotiate the provisions of the conventions laying down the same issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as the possibility of integration is concerned, we have a thematic convention here and not a general convention which concerns the two states. In this respect, therefore, if it is relevant to the draft law and is signed by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education, it can be incorporated into a bill, because we now have the requirement of the formal law, and as a whole with the bill to be ratified by Parliament in this way. This is not something unprecedented in our parliamentary customs. In conclusion, I would remind you of Law No 4531/2018 'Following a Council of Europe Convention to prevent and combat violence against women, domestic violence and other provisions' within the competence of the Ministry of Justice. I would also remind you of Mr von Wogau. Regulation (EC) No 4596/2019 of the Protocol No 16 of the European Convention on Human Rights, provisions relating to the functioning and effectiveness of the justice system, provisions concerning the functioning of the penitentiary system and Regulation No 4639/2019 of the Council of Europe Convention on the manipulation of sports matches, measures to combat violence in sport and other provisions. All these laws, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, include both sanctions for international conventions signed by our country and other provisions, of course, relating to the issues covered by the Convention. Finally, because I have already exceeded time, I would just like to point out to my fellow Members that the Scientific Council of Parliament has no objection whatsoever to the issues raised by Mr Kegeroglu and raised them in constitutional matters. The objection must be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much. The parliamentary spokesman for SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Friends has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. We agree with the objection of unconstitutionalism put forward today by the representative of the Change Movement. We had a similar position in Parliament's Committee on Morphic Affairs. Indeed, this agreement must come separately to the House and be ratified by the House by means of the procedure followed for all international agreements and by the signature of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That is a typical and essential issue. There's no rush for today. It can be another time. However, I would also like to talk about the substance. It is not a point of order but a point of order. I have read the statement tabled in the Minutes of Parliament and from us and from other parties in the Committee on the Respect for German Indemnity, which sets out a rationale. The Greek Parliament with a transparent process in September 2018 at a meeting discussed this issue, the issue of the Hellenic-German Youth Foundation. I repeat, by transparent procedure and not by secret means. It has laid down specific conditions for this agreement, which are met by the text of the agreement signed. If you want, we can have a detailed conversation. That is why this debate must not be held in a row of other provisions. It's wrong. It must be done specifically as ratification of an agreement. In this debate, all parties agreed that we could proceed with the conditions described in the text of the House to proceed with this agreement. It had only voted against the Golden Dawn and expressed reservations about the JRC. No one else had disagreed on the principle of this agreement. Therefore, to judge in Parliament whether this agreement signed by the SYRIZA government is an agreement that fulfils or not the conditions set by the Greek Parliament in September 2018. This Agreement was initialled on both sides in October 2018. It's not a last-minute deal. For reasons which have to do with the reality of bureaucracy and the political situation at the time, we arrived in July 2019. I repeat and stress that there is nothing secret and nothing wrong with it. That is why we accept the request to have a separate debate in Parliament on this agreement, so that there is no cloud, no suspicion. Let's see what the thought of this deal is. The idea is - and it is right - that we should accept from Germany in principle - the responsibilities of the Nazi regime. We cannot go to a historical review. The new generation must be aware - it is the foundation of the necessary cooperation of the new generation in Europe, especially today where there is a repetition of racism, neo-naziism and fascism - what 'cooperation' means on the basis of a historical reality. This reality is the anti-fascist struggle, the anti-fascist victory of World War II. Second, what's going on so far? The German state is taking initiatives - without the Greek state being aware at central level - to restore, as it says, a climate of cooperation. That's wrong. Any initiatives between Greece and Germany that have to do with restoring youth relations at the level of historical memory and other issues must be agreed. And that's the new clue. While he has so far had only one project, the fund for the future, with money that would only be provided by the Ministry of Germany, now there is the Hellenic-German Foundation, which is co-management of states. There are two aspects which decide what action is to be taken and where the money is to be paid. Do we want this or not? No means we do not want cooperation with other countries. Do we not want a programme of understanding, reconciliation and cooperation for young people in Europe? I don't believe this thing, except for the Golden Dawn she has her opinion. However, if we want there to be a cooperation programme, this must be done at a level which is equal to that between the States and not with unilateral action by Germany. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like to say that it is obvious that this is a shell right now. I'm talking about this Greek-German Youth Foundation. What policies will be taken from there is about who manages politics in Greece. That's another conversation. Of course, there are problems and fears. That's clear. However, there are even without this Foundation. Fuchelle went - you remember the punctual memory of Fuchelle - all over Greece and supposedly handed over money! And he also brought policies. Are we going to let them make this political infiltration in Greece, or are we going to lay down rules? The rule is a co-management institution between Greece and Germany for national memory, anti-fascist memory, for teaching our children. That is the big question. That means - and I say this again - that there is a necessary debate in this House, so that there is no cloud and no suspicion. We're not evading. We're clear. To come here with a separate text, to have a debate and to express this spirit of understanding expressed during SYRIZA's debate on the House with Mr Gavroglou, who had come here to present this matter. That is our view. All the others, whether procedural or other, are unfortunately inferior to the matter. I'm ending up with another matter. You remember that the Greek Parliament in April 2019 decided and restored our claim for German allowances. There was a private communication based on this text of the Greek Parliament, which was given to Germany. There's an answer from Germany. We must listen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Who is it, and what do we answer? So there are essential issues for the ratification and activation of this political agreement of importance, not technically or intimately unconstitutional, but of political importance. I mentioned them. The last thing is what Germany says about compensation and what Greece is answering today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, too, Mr. Philly. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honestly, I can't follow SYRIZA's position. He agrees with the unconstitutionality of a request from the Change Movement for an agreement he signed with! It's his thing, of course. Besides, this isn't the first time. As far as Germany is concerned, it is certainly not enough to accept its crimes. He has to pay everything he owes us. However, SYRIZA did not dare to write at least the corrections to the state's balance sheet. You should. Shouldn't you? On the subject now. In accordance with Article 65(1) of the Constitution, the Parliament shall lay down how it is to operate freely and democratically by means of a Regulation adopted by Parliament in accordance with Article 76 and published on the order of its President in the Official Journal of the Government. In accordance with Rule 70(2) of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure provide that the legislative work laid down by the Constitution may also be carried out by the Standing Parliamentary Committees set up and operating during the Session, as laid down in the Rules of Procedure and with the limitations laid down in Rule 72. Article 72 of the Constitution now regulates the way in which lawmaking is properly enforced. Rule 85(3) of the Rules of Procedure stipulates that the bills must be accompanied by a explanatory statement and a report on the consequences of the arrangement. Article 147 of this bill introduces an international agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany for the Hellenic German Youth Foundation, a bilateral non-profit organisation. Article 148 is an applicable provision of this Agreement. This international agreement comes with an article in an unrelated bill, absolutely irrelevant bill, without mentioning who has signed the Greek Republic, without a explanatory statement which is required and without an assessment of the consequences of the regulation, which is also required. According to complaints by individuals and bodies dealing with the issue of German allowances - there are those who actually deal with German compensation - this contract will be a 'floor' to Greek claims, which I would remind you are more than EUR 300 billion, according to the smallest evaluations. So we do not understand why the current government brings an international agreement signed by SYRIZA on 4-7-2019, which is only three days before the elections. Really, why was he raped to sign her? Was there any particular reason? This international agreement should come as a separate bill with all the above prerequisites and with the relevant committees for informing us. For all the above reasons, we consider the above articles of the Constitution to be invaded, as well as the Rules of Parliament, so we support the objection of unconstitutionality and the right request of the Change Movement to withdraw Articles 147 and 148 for both legal and, above all, political reasons. Greece cannot act until the 17th Federal State of Germany alone with obligations and without rights. At some point we have to say 'it goes all the way here'. It is not Puerto Rico of the United States, nor of the European Union, nor of course of Germany. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Villardo. Mrs. Bakadima has the floor. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, many could be said about the political significance of the two articles we are discussing, which have raised objections to unconstitutionalism, namely Articles 147 and 148, because they are not just two articles in a bill. It is an international convention that will follow our country's course for too many years in the future. We therefore think that they should have been discussed and agreed that they should be withdrawn today and discussed as appropriate, with the time and manner in which all conventions are being discussed so far. You said, Mr Buga, that it is not clear and that Mr Kegeroglu made a mistake in the interpretation he gave and it is not necessary for a convention to come as a whole. I'm not going into who's right. I will highlight the practice of the New Democracy so far, as Mr Kegeroglu pointed out in all previous conventions, which have come for discussion and ratification in Parliament. They discussed the procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure, a meeting in committee and one in plenary. Therefore, and given the importance of the contract that they bring to the law of our country, we are honestly wondering why you are choosing to bring them as part of a broader piece of legislation, and how much more so when the institutions themselves have at the hearing of bodies, in the debate within the committee, they raise their objections and reservations. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, your practice today does not give us any impression, for for once we see not only trespassing the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, but also the very laws you have brought and voted on. Of course, I am referring to the law of the state of staff, which you brought with very great pride, as a new government. It is a law that described as the most important part of your entire legislative presence and action the right legal status. But what we have seen since the summer of 2019, which has become the state's executive law. We didn't see the right legacy. We've seen laws that find unconstitutionality. The opposition has raised objections to many of the legislations. There were, of course, last-minute amendments that were whole bills and wait for the MPs - the ministers knowing that there will be an amendment from another, unrelated ministry - that the meeting should be delayed to be tabled. Unfortunately, you know, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, that the arrogance of your power - believe me - is only a numerical one. The fact that you are exaggerating numbers has made objections to unconstitutionalism have not been accepted so far. Understood. The political part of your legislation, anyway, has been devastated and has made our country even more poor. At least make sure you keep the typical part of the matter, even the procedural procedures laid down in the Constitution and in the Rules of Parliament. I shall close, Mr President, with a reference to today's objection of unconstitutionalism tabled by the Change Movement. Of course, we support it and vote in favour of it, because the formal procedures, as laid down for the ratification of the current Convention of the two articles in the way it comes within the Ministry of Education's bill, are not fulfilled. I would also ask that we be brought up to date, re-submit, as we have to, as a contract, and then that we should be able to discuss it in the light of the importance it deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u32	Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. The request for unconstitutionality on the part of the Change Movement is made for typical reasons and is the fig sheet, in our view. It is precisely, as a JRC, that we will not stand up to the formality of the matter. I mean, if he was actually coming with the signatures and other bills, there wouldn't be a problem? Would the substance change? From this point of view, all this reasoning undoes the first part of the rapporteur of the Change Movement in support of the demands of the National Council for the Judiciary of the Debts of Germany, as well as of the Network of Testimonial Cities and Villages. After all, on 6 September 2018, when the original Convention on Preparation was ratified, the representative of the Change Movement had not expressed any objection at all to this matter and had voted for it. Secondly, it is a leaf of figs, but also a convenient opposition to SYRIZA. In fact, Mr. Friends stayed in the press, and in fact he accepted it. He said it was a very good deal and he must be discussed. So how do you defend, Mr. Phile, the request submitted by the National Board of Proclaiming Debts and the Network of Testimonials and Villages, when it says that this agreement distorts the historical memory of the National Resistance and is relapsing the crimes committed by the Nazi Germany against the Greek people. That's what he claims. Do you support this thing? No, of course not. You do not agree with that, which is why you are sticking to formality. So, in essence, these educational establishments that grow up like mushrooms, either transnationally or from a state to another state, are not innocent pigeons and could never be innocent pigeon, because education is not an independent variable. It always deals with the pursuits of each country's urban classes and today's conditions, in fact, which are making a huge effort to revise history. Indeed, this attempt to revise history is also the official policy of the European Union. From this point of view, as a JRC, of course, we agree that there must be relationships of friendship, solidarity between peoples and young peoples, but these relationships of friendship and solidarity cannot be made under the smuggling of historical memory and under the so-called pursuits of the urban classes. As in 2018, we raised serious objections to the creation of this institution, so today we fully support the immediate withdrawal of these provisions and this Convention. Because, as a JRC, we stand firmly and support the fair claims for all Germany's compensation and debts due to the occupation 1941-1944, and these very objections are also a sacred obligation to the executed, murdered by the occupation troops, to the endless stand in the resistance, but also to the struggle of the people and youth against fascism and Nazism. From this point of view, therefore, we support the request from the National Board of Proclaiming Debts, but also from the Network of Testimonials and Villages for the withdrawal of these provisions and for them not to come any other way to discuss them, namely the annulment of the Convention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Buga has the floor in the capacity of the parliamentary representative. But since you've spoken a lot, if you can, you're confined.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u35	The constitutional issues have now been resolved, because I have seen that those colleagues who have taken the floor have not been left with them. I therefore insist on my proposal to reject the objection of unconstitutionality unfounded. But what I would like to note is that we have not received a clear answer from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Supports the unconstitutionality of the agreement, yes or no? We have heard that this is an agreement that the House should discuss. But to discuss in what direction, Mr Philly? It cannot bring about changes in the House and your party then it will come into a more difficult position, because you will have a debate in which you will be caught, without being able to make any changes to an agreement that you have signed. All these questions had to be raised during the negotiation phase and not today. They were about the negotiators who were mandated and appointed at the time of the government, who was running your party with the ANELs. Consequently, even if this were to be done, I think it was a way out of the substance of the debate - you will still be dealing with the problem, given that changes to any article in the Convention are prohibited. What are you gonna say when you can't say today? Either you agree or you disagree. If you disagree, you can say that SYRIZA and an agreement that signed it is actually not voting for it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u36	We're closing up with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u37	I want the floor, too. Would you give me that later?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Kegeroglu, the Minister must be closed. If you want, you can only have the floor for one minute, because you're the one saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, these were revealing positions. On the one hand, there has been an attempt to detract from the objections and violations of specific articles of the Constitution and of the Rules of Procedure. For me, it was not successful, because there is also a clear violation of Article 28(1) and other provisions which I mentioned, in particular, of the Rules of Procedure and of the Constitution which provides that the bills are signed by the relevant ministers. Of course, there has been a practice of protocols or other, as Mr Buga said, which were ratified in other bills, but an international convention, in the sense and in the sense of what we are discussing and which the government is promoting to ratify 147 and 148, there has been no ratification, and in any case there has been no ratification without the signature of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I'm stressing it. But we also have revelations about SYRIZA, who has so far, at least so far, avoided directly placing himself in key questions, while it would be good to contribute. Who is he who signed the contract, three days before the election, and with whose minister's mandate he went and signed? One.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u40	But you're entering another chapter. We're talking about unconstitutionalism now. You asked me to explain something about an additional argument rather than criticism of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u41	Yes, I shall finish, Mr President, but the contract was signed by SYRIZA. Should we refer to the JRC, who didn't sign it, or the Mera25?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u42	Mr Kegeroglu, I beg your pardon, that is a matter of substance and you will say that in the substantive debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u43	At the third conference, therefore, on Holocausts in Greece and the claim of German allowances, on 14-16 September 2018, the representative of the government of Mr. Tsipras there was placed completely different from that of Mr. Philis today. SYRIZA should make it clear what his positions are after all. We therefore remain in demand for the unconstitutionality of provisions 147 and 148 of the bill for the reasons we have set out. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u44	Let us not forget the general provision, namely that the highest institution is the Parliament, but it is not at present. That's what I said. Now the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first suggest that we define the framework of the debate. We are not discussing the substance of the agreement. Nevertheless, the agreement expressly states in its preamble that the Hellenic German Youth Foundation is not an answer to the special historical responsibility of the Federal Republic of Germany, resulting from the dark chapters of the history of bilateral relations and especially the German Occupation. Mr. Friend has raised new issues. I have noted reference to political infiltration, and I must say that if someone suddenly landed in the House and listened to SYRIZA's arguments, he would be convinced that he would call another party for the way he negotiated, the content he agreed, the signature he put in. But here again, we have this paradox: SYRIZA denounces SYRIZA, SYRIZA invokes himself for the way he has negotiated, the content that he has agreed, the signature he has put into a particular agreement. That is all about the Minutes, about the substance. But I now come to the objection of unconstitutionalism, because that is the context of the debate, it is purely legal, and it is about whether these provisions are constitutional or not. Five remarks, Mr President. Observation first, on the objection of unconstitutionalism: Article 28(1) of the Constitution clearly provides for ratification of an international convention by law. It does not provide for a separate law, it provides for ratification by law, and even the 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the House stipulates that the content of the convention to be ratified must not be changed. There is no obligation, however, for separate legislation to be ratified anywhere. Point two. This is not a general transnational agreement. This is an agreement aimed at the Ministry of Education and I would venture to say not even the entire Ministry of Education, but a specific General Secretariat. Which Secretariat-General? The very one we are talking about today in the bill. It could not have been possible, Mr Colleagues and Representative of the Greek Solution, to have a closer connection between this agreement and the bill under discussion in Parliament. There is therefore an absolute thematic relevance, regardless of the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will also sign the draft legislation. All the rest are interna corporis of the House. Point 3. There is no comment from the Scientific Office of the Parliament on this matter. Point 4. It's not something that's been happening for the first time. I heard Mr. Friend asking to come in separately. But I will mention two examples, on the SYRIZA Government: no. 4531/2018, the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and No. 4596/2019, the Settlement of Protocol No. 16 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. In these cases, what happened? Exactly the same. Why? Because there is no ban, there is no constitutional provision requiring the ratification of an international convention to be done under separate legislation. Fifth and final point, Mr President. But in fact, I think it is important, beyond the procedure, which is of particular importance, to discuss the substance as well. If it had been done, if it had come as a separate piece of legislation, then what would have happened? We would have a committee and a plenary. We now had four committees, one of which was heard by bodies and a plenary. And it was right that the Change Movement - we accepted it - insisted that bodies associated with this international convention should also be invited. It's accepted. These bodies have been heard. If the other procedure had been followed, there would have been much less dialogue, not the bodies, but only one debate in committee would have taken place. So the procedure chosen is both legitimate and in line with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House and, moreover, it has allowed much more extensive discussion, greater room for discussion on the substance. I shall conclude by saying this: a point of order again. We are talking about an agreement which all the parties of the then Parliament have voted for, except for the Golden Dawn and the JRC, which had stated 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u46	As regards the substance, Minister, you will talk about it later in the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u47	I shall conclude, Mr President. It was therefore also voted on by the Change Movement and by SYRIZA, and I think that given, this reveals the real micro-political intentions behind any objection of unconstitutionality or support for an objection of anti-constitutionality by the parties that had voted for it. Mr President, the government is obviously opposed to the objection of unconstitutionality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too. For the vote now, the order of business is laid down in the Rules of Procedure. But we will follow the practice that exists so far. The decision by the Conference of Presidents and three previous votes on unconstitutionalism has been taken, but even yesterday, we went with the principle of declaring things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u50	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, I think it is very serious and, of course, there can be no arguments in this House that 'the Convention has been passed, so now why do you not vote?' If the contract had been passed, is the government making fun of us and bringing it back? One question. So the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Modified contract and bringing it back? That's what the Minister said, you voted for it, he says, now you don't want it? It was a different thing to the law to which the Minister refers and he argued in the argument. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, which I requested and have received the floor, relates to the voting procedure as you announced. The question of the upturn, obviously, cannot be implemented. But if the question of building up by those who are in it is going to be a concrete result. But there is no freedom of will for Members to participate in the process. It is one of the cases where there are restrictive measures and it is 'not forbidden' for Members to take part in this procedure, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. So, I'd say the loose ends. There can be no decision on constitutional issues that they will be done in any other way than the one provided for in the Rules of Procedure. Because the letter of vote is provided for by the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution and we are applying it. The change in the procedure for the crisis of unconstitutionalism with an upturn is not entitled to the Bureau or the Conference of Presidents. There is, therefore, one serious issue which we cannot resolve under the present circumstances, and that is another reason to withdraw Articles 147 and 148, that the debate on the draft law should proceed unnecessarily to the rest. If you insist, it will indeed be another violation, in the direction of strengthening violations. So this bill will no longer have any legitimacy, Mr President. It is now your responsibility and not the representatives or the government. It is your responsibility to request the withdrawal of Articles 147 and 148.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u52	If I have to, I'll give the floor to someone else. I would also like to say that I am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, but of the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials What does Article 69(3) say to us? That any President-in-Office shall decide whether there is a quorum in the House. Then a vote shall be taken by a majority. Is there a quorum? There's no one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u53	So far it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u54	I heard you. Listen to me, too. The Rules are wise. It's a combination of three provisions. If we don't keep them in mind, we can find out. I'm sorry. I say it for myself and for everyone. To interpret them in combination. So, we don't have a quorum right now, because of the coronary. What happens when we don't have a quorum? The President shall decide in his assessment. Yes, sir. I therefore say that the necessary number has not been raised, so it must be rejected. That is why the Members of Parliament object. What can MPs do? We now go to Rule 71(2) which says that you could object when you have one twenty-fifth of the votes present. We're talking about this again, not because it's well burned, but it's a need.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u55	We've got it here. There's...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u56	Listen, let's talk about things in a row. I do not say that the debate that is taking place and the procedure is ideal. For God's sake! It's a great need that emerged from the pandemic. But there's no need for 1/20, Mr. Kegeroglu. Why? You will see in article 71 that he says he wants 1/20 when the rupture is not exclusively needed. What does the last paragraph say to us? That the vote on this is only - it has the pretext exclusively - with a stimulus or a rise in hand. So, anyway, this is not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u57	So what's the matter? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u58	It is another question of what would happen if we did not have a coronary. It'd be good. But it's a necessity. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u59	The other is the 'what to do' and what is provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u60	I did not want to go to the Rules of Procedure, but in any case. So I repeat, Article 100(2), Article 69 and Article 71(3), they resolve the matter. If there was a complete quorum in here and it was all the votes. The necessary number has not been raised. The objection is therefore rejected. We're moving on now. I'll give the floor to the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u61	Aren't we gonna put her to the vote? How did you put her to the vote? How? Based on what process? On the basis of what procedure is rejected? It should be written in the Minutes, Mr President, on the basis of what procedure it is rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u62	It's all written in the Minutes. There's a system and it's all written down. It's like I told you. A few things I know, but the Rules of Procedure I know him well.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u63	Yes, but you didn't tell us which provision is being rejected. All right, you know the Rules of Procedure, but sometimes there are votes in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u64	Now let's go to the first speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, sometimes voting is taking place!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u66	To organize the conversation. If they talk to MPs, they'll talk after four...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, please tell us - I ask that it be written in the Minutes - on the basis of what provision the objection of unconstitutionality is rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u68	Come on, Mr. Kegeroglu, let it go. It's a simple matter. How is it going to be different? There's no other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u69	It can be done. I suggested how it is done, but you want to violate Constitution and Rules, to do what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u70	But I didn't break anything. The Rules of Procedure say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u71	What I formally ask you to write in the Minutes is this. The fact that you are supposed to be arbitrary - because it is a decision by a single representative which is not entitled to decide on it - rejects the request for unconstitutionality, you must tell us by what procedure it has been. Are we up, and we're less? Did we raise our hand? With the declaration of the absentees? Tell us what procedure it was rejected to write.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Kegeroglu, let me tell you. I don't claim infallible. I said that it was rejected, taking into account the positions of parliamentarians. Good. The vote on the motions for resolutions will take place at 12.30 p.m. Please, Mr. Buga, what do you vote for? Let's vote to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u73	Would you excuse me for one reason? The Chamber is not suitable for procedural articles in order to avoid the substance of the case and in no way wants the New Democracy parliamentary group to do so. We must all bear in mind that we are operating under exceptional circumstances imposed by the treatment of the pandemic. This has caused Parliament to function differently. But we have decided unanimously that the parliamentary procedure and the functioning of Parliament should continue. This is, therefore, a basic principle which we must serve by interpreting the provisions governing the operation of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u74	To avoid bills that cannot be done like this. We have said that too. The unanimous decision is, however, the one. Say the whole one.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Kegeroglu, listen. So what must be done on the part of the parties is not to cause artificial difficulties in avoiding discussions and decision-making on the draft laws. How does that get over it? We have to be practical. As far as the roll-call vote is concerned, we have accepted it. But where it is not possible to have a dilemma and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure define another kind of procedure in order to establish the necessary majority, the principle of declared should necessarily be applied. I think we did it yesterday. You have accepted this in the past all the time we have been working under exceptional circumstances. The principle of a statement is confirmed by the placement of the parliamentary representatives or the present rapporteurs of the parties. This gives a practical solution and does not create obstacles of a procedural nature in the functioning of Parliament. I think we should agree on this if we really and frankly want legislation and parliamentary control to continue properly. This is an opportunity today to end this, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Friends has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u77	On unconstitutionalism we have been placed and we are in favour of...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u78	I saw the locations.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u79	It is clear that the process you are following, you have already established and established on the basis of pandemic, has created conditions of limited democracy in Parliament. The problem is exacerbated even more when the House discuss issues such as the immunity waiver yesterday. I do not want to go into this again. The government insists that non-critical bills should be brought in by this procedure. You think that, because the world cannot be mobilised because it is subject to the rules of social distances because of the pandemic, things will pass without understanding them. But the major issues account will come, which, absent and against society, the government is attempting to legislate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u80	Mr Philly, as I have said, this is an emergency situation. The rest, and as far as the substance is concerned, you'll talk about it later. Mr. Kegeroglu has been expressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u81	In favour of unconstitutionalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, I think it has been expressed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u83	‘Super’.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u84	Mr Villiardos said 'for' and Mrs Bakadima said 'for'. Therefore, on the basis of the principle of declared de facto application, the objection of anti-constitutionality is rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u85	Good afternoon, too. Mrs Zetta Makrei has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like to speak. When you change with the president, you need to know who the government has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u87	First, lower the tone of your voice. That's the first. I don't talk to you like that. You've done this to me before. Second, I saw what time you got in. Take a breath. We'll start with those who've been waiting since morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u88	Mr. President, I don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u89	Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. I am extremely relieved that this agreement on education will not harm our country's claims for military allowances. I will start my position by congratulating you, ladies and gentlemen, and your colleagues, who have introduced very important, rational and innovative bills, laws and reforms that were necessary, no longer exist, no longer exist. I consider this praiseworthy report to be essential because I have seen that the opposition attempts to counteract - because it cannot dismantle - initiatives for primary, secondary and higher education and for the modernisation of private education and private school which have left a positive footprint on the work of the Ministry. Unfortunately, instead of contributing to improvements, they were exhausted and still exhausted in quantifications, unscrupulous finds of supposedly class options, chatter and irrelevant reports, even charges of authoritarianism have been heard. Commentary and careful is your work, Mr Ministers, and so far it has been extracted from the experts and the "beneficiaries" - within introductory terms - of your positive comments initiatives, which also applies to the current draft law. You have pursued, with great commitment, at the dismissal of educational activity, the one of initial vocational education, training and lifelong learning, in order to substantially complement your previous initiatives, by giving the education characteristics active and timely driving force for the recovery and development of the place. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the figures are vague - at the moment when the government argues and regulates - with you to dispute the opposition, without proposals. According to Cedefop's 2020 survey, Greece is ranked in the last place in the European Union with 23% performance on the European ESI Skills Index, which shows whether human resources have the skills needed to develop the economy. Moreover, particularly worrying is the fact that in the post-economic crisis, 47% of Greek businesses consider that the lack of human resources skills is a major obstacle to the design and implementation of their investments. This is to add to the fact that, according to a BSE survey, 42.6% of enterprises are in difficulty to fill middle-level job gaps mainly due to the lack of appropriate skills and the necessary work experience. The above is merely an initial finding that over the years there has been no concern about the effective interconnection of the labour market with the system of initial vocational education and training offered after high school. I am referring to the vocational schools of training, the OAED's professional apprenticeship schools, professional high school schools, the post-training year of the PES and IEKs. This situation also arises in continuing vocational training for adults. The proportion of the adult population involved in education and training in 2018 was 4.5%, when the European Union average is 12.1%, or twenty-four in the European Union, while the participation of workers in training programmes in 2016 in Greece was 18.5%, when the average in the European Union is 40.8%. In the same year, 2016, according to "diaNEOsis" in research into people aged twenty-five to sixty-four years, who had participated in adult training programmes, less than half of them had declared: "The programme helped me to make my work better". Unfortunately, this parallel relationship, with no common point in common according to scientific work, is responsible for the low rate of finding work by the unemployed who have completed initial and continuing vocational training programmes. It is responsible for the limited use at the workplace of knowledge and skills acquired through initial and continuing vocational training. Finally, it is responsible for the lack of validation and recognition by the labour market of qualifications acquired through training. All of us must realise that vocational education in Greece is not the last solution for the few, when they are in front of professional and educational deadlocks. Instead, it should be the choice for many, the alternative serious option that will offer our young people excellent career prospects, but also quality jobs, to prevent them from being difficult and often unbearable in terms of immigration. It is right, therefore, to establish the National Qualifications Framework in line with the current European pending status since 2011. The bill links the labour market to the economic requirements for specific qualifications and technical professions with necessary arrangements such as the establishment of a central board of vocational education and training, as well as the establishment of thirteen regional councils that detect and diagnose the needs of the labour market and define the skills and the curriculum of the educational structures. It upgrades structures and programmes, simplifys procedures, improves certification. All the proposed arrangements, all in the right direction, all studied and documented are absolutely essential for the modernisation of vocational education in order to strengthen and strengthen the effective use of the country's human resources. The Government and the Ministry's concern is to strengthen productivity by knowledge, innovation and especially by specific human resources to tackle the increasingly global dynamic economic and competitive environment. On this legislative initiative, opposition is reacting. It sees enemies, hidden plans to exterminate minors, to exploit the great interests and not even slowly recognises the need to develop the horizontal skills of each and every one, such as a flexible response to changes, the ability to learn new things, the promotion of communication skills, as well as cooperation capacities, the composition of organisational skills combined with initiative. The pooling of such skills will equip citizens with functionality, rationality, adaptability to changing conditions, empathy and critical thinking and promote reciprocity, collective readiness and social responsibility. Congratulations, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again you have deserved our expectations - and ours - for the implementation of the New Democracy programme, but you have also received a positive vote of confidence in almost all the parties involved, and not just in BSE, as the Opposition says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u91	And we thank Mrs. McCrey. Mr Koutsouba, I would like to ask you for a favor: I would first like to give Mrs Jufi the floor to Mrs Jufi from the SYRIZA who wants to submit a roll-call statement. Mrs. Jufi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u92	It has come to the Bureau, we have tabled a request for a roll-call vote on Articles 9, 10 and 11, referring to the OAED Learning Schools and the PSE, as well as to Article 123, which refers to the setting-up of the service councils. We've talked about these and we'll talk next.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much. If there are any other groups in Parliament who want to apply for a roll-call vote, they will now be able to do so, so that the parliamentary committees and services can also be prepared for the vote, so that they can be processed. The speech is given by the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just the history of the masks - balloons that are still on the road and the closed schools - which are rather like clicking away from them - that is not only the various comic-trains that have happened with the systems that have fallen and with the networks that have beamed and which are now handed over with drum-crossing tablets - even limited and important cuts, which has been interpreted correctly by parents, by teachers, by teachers, that you are basically admitting, even late, that there was a problem - the main is that if someone has lost connection to the educational reality, to the needs of schools, universities, vocational education structures, fixed and for the entire period at least pandemic, this is the government and the Ministry of Education. Just last night the Ministry announced that another way of accessing the HEI for students will apply from this year, with limited choices and the introduction of separate bases from the university departments. In other words, on the road opened by SYRIZA you put additional barriers and filters on children who live the hell of the quarantine and the stress of the pan-Hellenics. Instead, in other words, to choose a section of the students, they will choose the pupils' departments. This is the first time in time that a government has made such a disgraceful and infamous decision, which you want to do since this year. Take her back now. You cannot bring one such thing to vote unless you go ahead and sow the winds to reap storms. We sincerely tell you - listen to it well - the management of pandemic - anti-grass, classic to bone - has serious consequences and you know that you have the exclusive, primary responsibility for the fact that a generation of young people stay behind in education, that social inequalities put their mark even more intensely on the path of children, that they gradually develop psychotic phenomena in youths that cause concern to parents, teachers, experts, manifestations of depression, boredom that are extremely worrying at these ages, where they have a strong need for movement, evacuation, creation, friendly contact. Ladies and gentlemen, we obviously all agree on this, namely that living education is irreplaceable. What are you doing to strengthen the irreplaceable, substantial process? Don't tell us that you're listening to the experts, because what the experts say is selective, more that it suits you and those you're supporting. Do not tell us that the nine out of ten of the bodies, namely those of you who agreed to take part in the parliamentary procedure, agree with the bill, because you have excluded many and selected with whom you will discuss and of course, first and foremost, the BSE issue, which his representative said the good teacher should ask - he says - the business for what he teaches. Such a nerve! These are the real "excessive" you say, gentlemen of the government, to remind you of a well-known word - candy that you used in the struggles of the students in the last time when you were referring to their parents, their teachers, whose fair demands are proved to be wholeheartedly. At that time you called them "ex-schools instigating". But listen to the educational community at last, more special are those of the various industrialists. In fact, you ruled out from the operators’ hearing about this SGME bill, the Parents’ Confederation representing three hundred thousand parents. You ruled out the Association of Students of Public IEK Attica, representing three thousand students, including the IEO, the Teacher Federation, which obviously has a say about the bill and, more generally, its specific articles. Listen to the parents and they're experts, and they see their kids stir up in front of screens, sleep on screens, and tear up a little bit in front of the screens. Listen to the teachers who are rightly saying that this is not a lesson, it's a procession. Read articles, thoughts of educators who circulate online and express with soulfulness what it means by living teaching, not only to achieve learning goals but also to support the child of the last throne, this child who wants more support, a shoulder to wake up, to get ahead. Now the pain has caught you to get in grades! Can't you just wait till the schools open up, get teachers and students close? That is the big problem, and that is not what you say, the recording of grades. Take steps to open schools now safely, this is the only demand you need to implement and that is not to the vague tomorrow, but it was to be done yesterday. Don't throw them on the coroner to justify it. Recreate teachers, make use of rooms and rooms in schools that are literally waiting or untreated. Remove the parts. As for the universities, what should we start? It's been closed for a year on your own sole responsibility, and you've been squeezing about others. Soon you'll also have repressive bodies teaching students, because that's what you hire, teachers we don't see you putting on. You give money for a dubious quality PI's security, but to open up with real security and continue the educational process gradually and for no reason. So we found out about it, where to find money for the needs of the people and youth? Your anti-grassroots policy is still unrealistic, but it is not going to pass that way. You think that through a pandemic and a new capitalist crisis you have found a priest to bury some tens of them, so the Minister of Education has rightly said that her reforms are going on. In fact, you are making use of the Pissaridis report, which is completely challenging for education, and that is why the educational world is rejecting it on specific grounds. However, the Prime Minister in Parliament yesterday, along with other provocative ones, told MEPs and other parties to leave this report out of controversy. If possible. Not only will we leave her out, Mr. Mitsotakis, but we will fight her as we should. We're going to fight all those embarrassing things that he's proposing. What's he suggesting? If you haven't noticed, we'll tell you. So the Pissaridis report proposes that other schools should be closed because - listen, listen! - the mergers that took place weren't enough. It proposes that schools be even more dependent than today, mainly on the parents' pocket, since in words they will be called autonomous, namely, on the substance behind the state's responsibility. And even wants to be evaluated by the performance of their students. That means multi-speed schools. Great visionaries of his authors. Rejoice them. What else does he propose? To relaunch a new cycle of change in universities with final victims again, after the report proposes that the former TEIs, which became universities, become three years old again. Like you're not ashamed of yourself, we say. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go to other issues, I would like to raise some articles showing where you are going with it. Here the world is also being lost in Article 116, and you are funding an American institution, which is based on international and domestic monopolistic colosses. You bring it by law, because it was now, of course, taking ministerial decisions, as well as by SYRIZA, to keep us from forgetting, gentlemen, the Anti-Population Officers. You're so progressive, gentlemen of the government, that you're going on how to recruit the educational decades back. SYRIZA did it, too. But you're expanding it. Article 114 gives the opportunity to recruit people from training directors, i.e. locally. In fact, you give the opportunity to violate the lists of deputies created, since who will work will not be associated with the ranking, but will depend on the exceptional cases that will occur locally. Of course, conditionality will be created between teachers and the training director. You're acting up, it's really taking off. With Article 123, you are essentially putting the teachers' representatives on board the boards as appropriate and completely coercive. Since your propaganda has not worked and you have eaten your face in the last elections - as we say - for the elected representatives of teachers, despite the pressure orgy, even to members and officials of your party, now you are doing this. It is completely unacceptable, undemocratic move that you must take back immediately. You need to get this article back. Let me now turn to the main theme of the bill: changes in vocational education and training. What does the government say to us, as if he was discovering America? The main objective is to link these structures to the needs of the labour market and business. This multi-faceted space of the ESDP, the IEK, the EPAs, has lived through numerous structural changes within a very short period of time. Every government that comes, wanting to honor its main sponsor, which is the big capital, makes a change. From 2007 until today it is not a change, it is not two, it is five changes. And all the previous ones have said this: linking the labour market, like education and, as it is perfectly logical, vocational training, are not linked to the labour market, as if they were standing in the air. But you're taking it and you know it. And BSE knows, big business knows. Of course, he knows it and the young people who live and study in these areas, which are increasingly being upgraded and upgraded, he does not see. You want the youth even cheaper labour power, without rights, to be able to work in the new means of production efficiently for capital and be constantly on the hunting of qualifications, since the degree does not want to have any impact. We tell you clearly: It is not an upgrade that you bring for thousands of young people and young people. He doesn't respond to their needs. He doesn't respond to their agony. See how you deal with this world today in the pandemic. So much you care about the PSAs that you give two all and all of the tablets per PSA, regardless of the number of students they have. That's how much you care about the children of the poorest people's families. Or should we say about the students IEK who have left them at the mercy of telephony taking absenteeism because they don't have a tablet? You will tell us: we do not have the magic wand and we want to deal with these problems. "In addition to the bill", you will say, "to bring the modernization of vocational education into the light of the new era, the fourth industrial revolution", and many other, beautiful words, but air. Really? In this new era, are you dealing with it by cutting off general education in 15 years and by putting them in work and learning certain skills alone? This is not a time of Big Data, but a great exploitation of underage work. After all, your Government in 2013, in a previous reform of vocational education, rightly said that there should be no such structures because they do not even give general education, nor even a high school dismissal. What's changed since then? Only the different scotch you took from BSE - that changed - which, before summer - this year - made a whole study of vocational education and training, and you are making it law today. All these problems are precisely the result of linking up to this labour market. In simple terms, the connection between vocational education and the interests of certain capitalists. And just on the territory of this economy, this policy, you cannot and do not want to resolve it. Let's talk with numbers. In 2018, the unemployment of PSA and PSA graduates was 36.9%. In a recent survey of the graduates of the IEK, unemployment reached 42.4% and employment was unrelated to 28.6%. You will say: that is what we want to deal with again. Well, good, then. You tell us that the solution is for businesses to say directly what needs they have in vocational education structures so that they have a more active role. So let's see what a public IEK director says, who cannot be accused of being a JV or of not wanting to connect to the labour market. It says, therefore, that "Highlighting example that IKKs are always open to market jewels is the fact that, following the official document of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Recreation Boat Governors, which informed us about a lack of Greek governors, skippers, and thus forced vessels to manned with foreign skippers, IK has undertaken to operate the specialty following the promise of support from the Union. Unfortunately, there was no follow-up in support of our partners in the process." Such examples are too much, because the market means investing capital where there is a great profit. How else does it explain what we first know, that a number of specialties are made at the foot for the needs of the market and eventually few graduates are recruited? This is your world, angelically made. This is the connection to the market, because capitalist market means selling goods, as well as the labour force that has to - you see - to be sold as cheaply as possible. But it also means anarchy, resulting from different and often conflicting designs, urban designs, so that there can be no substantial programming for the graduates of each industry, specialty, scientific sector, and thus abundantly for the capitalist system. This surplus for capital, this destruction of man's most productive power is necessary for the bourgeoisie, because it contributes to a fall in average wages, is pressing for the requirements to be adjusted downwards. Let's talk about the degree these kids get, what a counterfactual is. The measures you take, not only do they not respond, but they counteract the needs and demands of young people. They claim their degree in vocational education to be the result of studies, which will be upgraded, and which is why it will be the only condition for the exercise of a profession, for which, without obstacles, certifications and additional filters have been developed. Of course, it is another thing that we need to monitor new developments on every subject or training. This process can be organised in public structures free of charge, and that means, of course, strengthening study, and you do not do so anywhere either in the PES or in the PES, or in the Professional Training Schools or in the IEKs. The reality faced by PSA students, despite their efforts to advertise them, is the thousands of gaps in teachers, laboratory equipment and specialty books, which many of them put in their own pockets. These are the features that open at a light speed, the few sections that only under student mobilisation are approved exceptionally each year, while the majority close and thus thousands of students stay "in the air" to continue the specialty they have started. Let us think about how a PSA graduate can work directly on this subject, when in PSAAL the way it is being taught is somewhere in the last century, when he often does not have a teacher in this specific specialty, when laboratories have computers in 2000 - at best - or books have been renewed for over a decade or when in general education courses, the necessary to understand what is happening to him, often not even a lesson. In the IEK laboratories, in many cases, they are historical exhibits of past applications, while the direction taken for private use by companies for practical laboratory courses removes the students themselves from the test of theoretical knowledge. Don't tell us that you've been joining the formal education system for thirty-eight years. Will this mean single curricula and books and not photocopies for students? So, you do not upgrade it for a very simple reason: you do not want degrees, but qualifications, papers, learning results, but not consistent knowledge. This is also the strategy of the European Union, which you and SYRIZA are promoting. This is what the Council of the Union says about vocational education and training in its communication of July 2020: ‘The division of professional qualifications into smaller classes of learning results is the means for a flexible update of content and for adaptation to the needs of individuals’. In simple Greek: Degree ending. So we ask: Is it an upgrade for people's and young people's needs to be given basic skills with an expiration date? Is it an upgrade for people's youth needs to get a degree and then be examined, re-examined, certified by a series of employers' organizations, often put in your pocket? Is it an upgrade for students to pay for consumables, tools, lessons in corridors, missing teachers? Or is it upgraded to find thousands of public IEK students in the air, because you have to cut down on the number of students and have to end up in specialties that don't even interest them or ultimately choose private IEK, so that poor education capitalists don't lose their profits? Is it an upgrade, a practice to be carried out in needless skills, laboratories - if these are - to be years behind technological developments? Is early training being upgraded without a trace of general education from the fifteen years? Well, no! It's not an upgrade. It's about preparing to go back to a working middle ages. So don't tell us about linking the labour market and upgrading. We've seen the play before. It's bad, it's boring. Others are the possibilities of our time, and these show the way to go, to claim and take what belongs. Because the future belongs to the world of work, to the world of creation and not to the market parasites, who don't know what they have and eat among themselves by destroying human work, human creativity. Because modern technology introduced to all professions wants the professional to have a higher level of knowledge and education, the modern technician wants to work more with his mind and less with his hands, well aware of his language, have good foundations in mathematics, physics. Of course, it must be taught lessons, such as history, which forms it, that they develop their personality in order to be creative and actively involved as an active citizen in social developments. At the same time, at the rapid pace that technology develops on several subjects, how will these current students follow it? What are they gonna do? Should a life be run down behind the slightest change in technology, chasing training and paying for them, while the employers will find a step and fire? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you didn't get the pain for the children of vocational training. The refrigerant of the Western neighborhoods is a title of honor, because it is your honor and your pleasure to belong to the class of the workers of our time, but it is not a result of human nature, social inequality. We say it so that you don't get confused, and you think the criticism we're doing is like the one that SYRIZA thinks the degree doesn't have to have a professional impact, that it's kind of like a hobby. That is why we are giving the battle with reactionary perceptions that "the children of the Greek people do not take the letters and how it is best to learn an art". We do not go hand in hand with exclusion from general education. We are fighting the battle to be understood by all the children of the people's families, without any complicity, but on a classic basis, that for their education the responsibility lies also with the social inequality, the politics and the parties that serve it, the class that is currently in power and is pervading all the wealth and knowledge that produces the workers' hands and minds. Besides, the school that the JRC is fighting for does not drive out from its programme the technique, as a lower occupation of the poorest social strata, nor does it consider the technology, the science of the means of production, the privilege of some highly qualified experts, which many cannot understand. School doesn't separate students like today. It gives all young people as much knowledge as possible, so that they can stand on their feet, on the basis of their professional choice. This school, however, has nothing to do with today's school, class school, class school. It does not, as today, deprive children of the general education necessary for the present era as a background for any future professional choice. He doesn't put in constant expedition barriers. It does take measures, especially for the children of the people’s family, to help them as much as possible in their studies, in their courses. So no child is considered to be flying and therefore, unlike what is happening today, does not send children to farms and apprenticeships. On the other hand, it organises the curriculum so that there can also be contact with all productive activities. Because whatever happens, whatever profession one chooses must be able to know how the wealth of society is produced. In this barbaric exploitation society, there can only be two ways to see young people. You see them more as fuel in your plans to get some, a few, profitability. We see them as a creator of wealth, of new life, and that's why we tell them that half and a few are not for them. It's the lots and the big ones, it's a life waiting for the best, and it can be today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Let me read to you the request for the roll-call vote: "On the basis of Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, we Members who sign this request shall request a roll-call vote on the articles" - note the articles in particular the Parliamentary Groups - "9, 10, 11 and 123 of the draft law "National Vocational Education, Training and Lifelong Learning System", incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on the verification of proportionality prior to the establishment of a new legislative statute for occupations (OJ L 173, ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the Hellenic German Youth Foundation and other provisions of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs". I repeat, if there are any other groups in Parliament that want a roll-call vote, that they will be able to table it quickly so that the competent authorities can handle it. I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Miltiades Varvitsiotis, for the amendment number 660/42, and then Mrs Kerameos will speak. Here, Mr Varvitsiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u96	I listened very carefully to the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Greece, who, in his last mention, spoke precisely about a multitude of education for young people and I do not think he was referring only to Greeks and Greeks. I think it would support and support the amendment that we are tabling, through which we give Greece an impetus as an international training centre. You know, one of the objectives of this government - I think the Minister for Education, Mrs Kerameos, and all her staff - was precisely to create the conditions so that the Greek educational system could acquire an extroversion. In this context, our amendment, which aims to remove bureaucratic restrictions and allow people to obtain residence visas in our country who want to study and spend a quarter or a half trainees in our country - whether they are in summer areas, or in spring, or autumn - is not allowed to come without hard bureaucratic restrictions, especially people who come from third countries - outside the European Union - who do not have the right to easy movement and, of course, do not have the right to a long stay beyond the quarter of our country, if they have a simple Schengen visa, to take this visa,'student visa', student visa, student visa and to come to Greece for a period of at least three months, if they have a simple Schengen visa or a state visa. I think this is part of a logic which not only wants Greece as an international educational centre, but which wants us to export culture and education, because our intangible exports are too many times more essential than the exports we make to materials and products. I think that facilitating these people to come to study in Greece is an important step. You know, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we have tried to modernise the visa regime very much. We spent the year in which a third party could be invited by a company to come to Greece without bureaucratic formalities, with the guarantee of the company to come, participate in a trade meeting, participate in a conference, participate in a report, find suppliers in our country and then return without awaiting these long-term procedures of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are now moving to the'student visa' and, of course, to the next period and to what we say, which is the 'technology visa', that is to say to bring people who will be involved in advanced and developed technology, to the fourth technological revolution and who will come to work in Greece, to invest in Greece and to be able to exploit the geographical position of the country, but also to exploit the potential that the country gives. In conclusion, I would like to say two things because of the long-standing - I would say - my stay in these parliamentary seats for all that we have discussed before, on the issues of the integration of an international convention into the text of the bill. I think that the reactions to something that was so simple and self-evident are too much to be discussed in the context of a draft law by the Ministry of Education through these procedures and the ratification of a convention aimed at broadening the German-German relations. I say this very simply to you, that we think that we should extend our relations with Germany. We need to broaden them within the framework of mutual understanding, we need to broaden these relationships within the framework not only of the European Union but also of the bilateral nature. Of course, we need to broaden them on the basis of what Mr. Philis said a moment ago, through the mutual understanding of history and the elements that are hurt in this history and for which I think that the emergence of this Greek-German Youth Foundation and its establishment and its operation will be able to provide a great deal of opportunity for understanding history, knowledge of history - which is very important - of accepting the tragic situations that history has brought and of course, of the need to say 'never again'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Kerameos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point, the Minister of Education, Mr Niki Kerameos, presents the above-mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 161-163]] I wanted to make a reference to something said by Secretary-General Koutsoubas, one of what he referred to. He made some remarks about the proposals that saw the government's publicity light to correct the pathogens of decades when it comes to university introduction. And I want directly to ask: does the Communist Party of Greece support entering students with grades 1 and 2 at the '20' at the university? They're supporting the incoming students by simply writing their name? Do we or do we not all want to raise the level of study of our universities together? Do you, as Greek taxpayers, think it is right to pay for students who enter the university by writing only their name? Is that what we want? Do we also think it is right to enter a university department that has declared itself a two-tier choice? Which other country is this happening? And in the end he's going to join a department where he probably won't study on the substance, how much more he's going to graduate, but take the place of someone else who really wants to study there? Let us not forget - you said so, Mr Delis, yesterday and rightly - that 30% never graduate. Finally, do we want or do we want our children to make targeted choices, to have studies in contrast? Mr Koutsoubas said: 'Two Tablets per ESDP'. One computer per ESDP section. That's what the New Democracy government launched. I don't know if such a prediction has ever been made in the past. I'm coming to the approval of a few parts. If I am not mistaken, Madam Undersecretary, 98.2% are the authorisations of a few departments for the ESDP, in particular, in the midst of a pandemic given by the State Secretary. I conclude with regard to what Mr Koutsubas said about the Law of Vocational Education and Training. Ladies and gentlemen, we have two roads ahead of us. One way is to leave our students, our students, our trainees to pursue studies, without them having to do with the labour market, without any interest in what their studies will have in the market in quality jobs. In our view, we are also mocking our young people and society. There's a second way. This road is to see what needs are targeted and specifically, to offer our young choices with a reflection. I am very sorry when stereotypes are reproduced in this Chamber, such as the only conception comes from the university. The university is a major conquest, but it's not the only one. Equally important is the recognition by the structures of vocational education and training. If something wants the government to degrade with this bill is that we have to give young people choices, choices with a counterfactual. It's not a road. There are many streets, many alternatives. The important thing is to make choices with a counterfactual. At this point, I would like to inform the House that I am making legislative improvements to the draft law. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, now speaks. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your "child" is this image. The fact that students entered universities with "1" and "2", with white glue, is the result of their own choices. You can't load them on the JRC. We have said too many times, and I repeat, that high school cannot be an entry examination at universities. Don't you understand that thing? In the middle of a pandemic, are you going to change the way you import? Is that the problem with high school students, for example? Have you solved all other issues? Can't they connect here to take lessons and you're now coming in the middle of a pandemic to change their way of importing six months ago and less, creating new problems and new stress in children? What do you not understand from what we've told you? That is the issue. Secondly, we have told you before that not only vocational training, but much more that, is directly linked to the labour market. However, what you are doing is to reproduce mechanisms of very cheap labour, based on the needs of businesses. Aren't you telling me, will these graduates' position be upgraded to a labour market dominated by the middle-age labour market, one-day contracts and minimum-hour contracts, wages and dividends which are degrading? After all, are these children being upgraded when they are chasing credit units and do they not have professional rights, on the basis of their studies, and on the basis of their diplomas or diplomas they receive from these universities? These are the problems which we will discuss much more extensively in the intervention we are going to take.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, will we now use the circle of parliamentary representatives?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u103	No, Mr. Philly. If you want to say something about what the Minister said, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to what Mrs Kerameau said in reply to the Secretary of the JRC. There's no surprise. That's what I expected to hear. The Greek people's surprise is that the Ministry of Education, in the midst of a pandemic, lacks the necessary arrangements to deal with the pandemic in schools. And not only is it absent, but it does the opposite of what must be done. I would remind you that in the summer he voted for an increase in the number of children in each section in primary and secondary schools, when both in Greece and abroad scientists insisted that there should be a dilution of the school population in the departments. Not only did it not dilute them, but it increased the number of children in every department. I would remind you that we also have the great problem with distance education, which has been caught in technology and not just in learning deadlocks. Techniques are the scandal with 'CISCO'. We still don't know, it hasn't been filed, what's the deal. Of course, if I don't blame Mrs. Keramea, it seems that the opaque contracts are in the pandemic, especially with technology. For example, I read today in the 'Preservers' Newspaper' that the government has been hiding for eight months - now we have learned from seeds - a contract with the American Colossus PALANTIR for the management of the pandemic. This company is a partner of the CIA and the FBI and is concerned with the surveillance, monitoring, that is, of the citizens. When I turn to the government about why it does not bring Parliament to look at the conventions and to look at them all, that is to say, to make this simple element of Parliament's democratic operation, it says: 'Come from the office to see them', as these conventions are private contracts, they are contracts that the Minister does and cannot be heard by Parliament and by public opinion. We demand that the conventions come to the House. This Parliament's contempt for the 'CISCO' issue is unprecedented, especially when this agreement has proved to be technically unavoidable, namely the fact that the system is being'slashed' all these days. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude by saying that I expect an answer from now on: Can it be possible in the pandemic that new burdensome measures are planned against children? However, these issues will be discussed in detail in my intervention. I just want to say one thing here. We are tabling an amendment with which we are specifically calling for this year - in general we are against, but especially this year - not to apply the Bank of Issues to high school. Children from last year, but also this year, do not have substantial learning, substantial educational participation. Remote education cannot replace education and, in particular, the way it is done, with great social discrimination. You've read what's going on. At least 30% of children, as we read in the newspapers - because the Ministry does not bring official data - have no chance of getting into the system, while other children cannot get in because of technological problems and others because they do not have so many tablets in their home. We have an extra social distinction. Unfortunately, this technology that was necessary to implement because of the pandemic is being applied with very, very important social discrimination. We have now heard that they will give every child 200 euros to buy a tablet. Okay, now you think about it? A year later? To get them in two months, when this year is over? In France, Italy, Belgium, Portugal...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u105	You'll tell that in your speech, Mr. Philly. For what the Minister said, you spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u106	...sharing already from summer tablet. They don't make fun of announcements. Children in their schools, homes in Portugal, in Belgium have tablets to learn. Here again the announcements, 'will', 'will', 'will'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Philly. We shall now return to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, I would like to answer Mr Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u109	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u110	I shall be very brief, Mr President, because I shall refer in detail to my position. I want to restrain one thing that Mr Philis said: 'children do not have substantial learning.' Mr. Philly, how do you cancel the titanic effort of all the members of the educational community? About two million people right now, from preschool to university, are making huge efforts and have all been able to transfer the entire education process from living to distance education together. How do you cancel this huge effort? This is a huge effort which the whole of the country has welcomed. They're about two million people! We are one of the few countries that have such universal participation in modern distance education. With problems? Yeah, with the problems that exist. Obviously, the project is huge. The question is that these should be resolved, as resolved from the first day and move forward. However, we cannot cancel this such a great effort to bring together the educational community, our teachers, our students, their families, and say that children do not have substantial learning. I'm coming to something last. I finally don't understand, does SYRIZA not want to give 112 million euros to enhance our students' digital skills? We are talking about 112 million euros that will go to the most vulnerable social groups, with five hundred sixty thousand young people to receive. Is SYRIZA against? Doesn't he want us all to build this important telecommunications acquis together? Because then we're talking about it. We are talking about how we build on the acquis of telematics, how we build on this very important digital leap achieved by the educational community. I'll be more detailed in my intervention. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u111	And we thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u112	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u113	No, no. We won't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u114	For the procedure, not substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u115	You don't agree. It's over. If you agreed, it'd be news.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u116	But he will ask again, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u117	Oh, of course. They'll have to answer later.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u118	Not a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u119	Well, that's what you do to me. But you'll have to answer after the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u120	Let's talk about it in his intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u121	Here you go, Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u122	I will only say something in response to what Mrs. Kerameau says. Nothing else. I am going to put a question put by the Citizens' Counsel - an urgent question for a month and a half - to the government on the discrimination which children suffer from the issue of telecommunications, which cannot be accessed. Has he answered the ministry? Teachers are heroes, of course! They're doing everything children can, parents. The Department doesn't do what he has to do. Has he answered the Citizen's Counsel? I ask for an answer on this matter. Has he answered the Citizen's Counselor? So let the other many and fines for the "tablets". These belong to the kids, but not now that the school year is over. From the outset, these and many other things had to be given. So don't make fun of yourself. I am speaking, Mr President, on behalf of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Philly. Here, Mrs. Kerameau, you have the floor to answer, if you please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u124	I shall reply later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u125	We're finally on the list. The reason is Jewish, Mr Anastasia Gara, from SYRIZA. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by referring to two of the important amendments we have tabled as SYRIZA Members. The first relates to the provision of tax-free, undisclosed and irresponsible aid paid by regions to small and micro-enterprises affected by the pandemic. As you know, this aid comes from the European Fund, and we believe that the regulation and the need for aid to be tax-free, unrestricted and irreversible is self-evident and necessary. The second amendment I would like to mention concerns the permanent obligation to publish declarations in the regional and local press. I would remind you that following the abolition of this measure by the Samara Government, SYRIZA in a difficult financial environment and after negotiations he gave five years of extension, which ends at the end of December. The publications of declarations do not only contribute to citizens' information and transparency, a practice that is followed in many European countries, but are also a key revenue in the regional press, especially at this time when all other sources of revenue have been limited. I do not need, ladies and gentlemen, to mention the important contribution and role played by the regional press in the democratic functioning of societies at the level of transparency, information and the contribution to the labour market and local economies. We insist that the strengthening of the local and regional press and its support are necessary. However, the Minister responsible, Mr Petsas, has long refused to give a solution, but also to implement any regional and local press support programme. Its commitments that it will bring about a regulation which will only extend this measure of publication for one year, and there is no commitment so far to abolish this measure of publication, are a hindrance to the press and publishers in the region. It closes the eye, at the same time, to contractors and opacity, and it is not a solution for the sustainability of the press, as it will lead hundreds of newspapers to locks and workers in unemployment. The rejection of this amendment, therefore, is a confession by the government that it does not want the regional press to function and support, while demonstrating its obvious indifference to workers while, for large instruments such as the channels, it holds rich gifts and reliefs. We therefore believe that these amendments are urgent and necessary. However, you have shown indifference, Mrs Kerameus, Ministers, for all aspects of public education. Already since the first wave of the pandemic, as a SYRIZA, we had expressed our objections and our proposals for the management of the pandemic as regards the operation of schools and the whole educational process. However, instead, you chose to increase the number of students per class, not to perform free tests on students and teachers by ensuring a safe environment for them, not to find extra spaces for teaching, in order that there is no co-confidence and that you prioritised to share masks - parachutes. This mistake has not been restored, and as a result students even today have not received the appropriate equipment. Television then followed. Although you had as a government several months before you to prepare the system, not only did you not make sure to shield this system in order not to "fly" the platform, but you did not have to deal with the universal access of students to the teletexes as well. Unfortunately, you ignore clearly that there are families who cannot afford to have a computer or Internet connection at home. Ignore that there are houses even today with a cut stream and you have not taken care of the reconnections to vulnerable families. Ignore that there are remote areas, without the appropriate infrastructure for accessing the Internet. That's where you haven't given solutions. Even today, ladies and gentlemen, instead of discussing a draft for the preparation of schools and the educational process, the improvement of the course, health safety of children, parents and teachers, you are bringing in a bill that essentially dismantles vocational education, a bill that depreciates public vocational education and strengthens inequalities, a bill that is far from the real needs of society, from the real needs of youth and the modern world. What are you doing with the bill? You definitively abolish the two-year vocational education programs that SYRIZA had enacted, a pioneering and modern institution that had mainly embraced local communities in the region. It was an institution that provided access to higher education, training in professional fields tailored to the needs of each local society, in cooperation with universities and professional bodies and, most importantly, with guaranteed funding. Of course, for you, access to education requires full wallet and depends on it. That is why we accuse you that your choices are extremely classic. You consider incomprehensible children from popular families to improve their knowledge and training, taking the corresponding degree. You also introduce a hard assessment on terms of purchase and promote the fragmentation and degradation of schools, in contrast to SYRIZA's policies of providing vocational training as a whole. Institute childcare and unpaid work, pushing thousands of children into early training as soon as they finish high school. You are founding the vocational schools of training that will provide apprenticeships for minors, without remuneration. You are actually creating a cheap and low-level workforce for what the market demands or for what the market has announced to you that the market requires, although we have a different view, because the high-educated and high-level human resources can contribute best. You are further downgrading the OAED Learning School degrees and, indeed, retrospectively, about seventy thousand graduates from 2006 onwards. Remove public IEKs with fewer than two hundred fifty students in Athens and Thessaloniki and a hundred in the rest of Greece, delivering students to doubtful private structures. You will, in other words, lead to a close of about 40% of the public IEK with your signature, signed by Mitsotakis and Kerameos. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Please for your tolerance. At the same time, in the specific draft you are proposing, you provide favourable arrangements for private IEKs, such as distance learning for all the curriculum, English-speaking departments and others - private education has never left, after all, at the heart of your interest - while, in fact, you are 'collecting' private training structures, turning them into formal education structures, as you provide the possibility of registering them into an IEI through a ranking examination, effectively bypassing the Pan-Hellenic Examinations, of course, for those who can pay, because as the wallet has said about you is very important. In common, you dismantle and degrade all of your vocational training. As for the anti-democratic regulation - and I close - Minister, which you are bringing to the Services, ignoring 93% of the teachers who sent you, in practice, a different democratic, collective message, all I can say is the need to withdraw it directly, as is all the provisions on vocational education that are far from the needs of society, education and youth. Thanks for the time, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. The Voiotis MP of the Change Movement, George Mulkiotis, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which promises a great deal, but it provides for a little. After all, all the bills of the New Democracy Government - the 'excellent', as they say - provide for the similar ones again. It is a bill that is commensurately forged as an integrated effort to upgrade vocational education, but which actually puts its main burden on vocational training and its undetermined link to the labour market. Continuous and prioritised investment in education and knowledge is a common assumption in order to respond as a country to international developments and to exploit the rapid development of science and technology in order to contribute to the dynamics that our country needs throughout the production chain. In this context, vocational education has a particularly important role: to provide life for young people and young people in order to respond to the labour market, a response that ensures their working future and at the same time contributes to achieving the development goals of our country. But when there is no strategic plan for the country, then it cannot be drawn up much more, individual projects such as this for vocational education can be carried out. How can we hope for a serious and effective planning when the government is immersed in a morbid climate, directing all its powers towards communication reproduction? That's why, every day, we're witnessing her contradictory choices. That is why the government takes horizontal measures in relation to the pandemic, not to mention the real potential in each region or county. That is why the government leaves unprotected and without any allowance tens of thousands of food workers, tourism. What's the Christmas present for them? They are the arrests and repression, because they were shouting "humiliating". That is why it is incapable of actually supporting the ESS and the workers on the front line to tackle the pandemic and ignoring the distortion, fragmentation of the existing legislative framework on how to calculate the pension due to death and disability. We have proposed the treatment of this unacceptable pathogen, as well as an increased minimum amount of pension for the above persons and their families by means of an amendment to that effect. That is why the government decided to open the hairdressers, but ignores the needs of the children attending high school who are a few months before the universal examinations. Of course, a question arises: How will the government take care of and take care of the necessary sanitary protocols, so that children can do their homework in order to cover the necessary preparations for the difficult trial of the Greeks? Not all children have the necessary technological equipment, and you know that very well, since you decided to implement the voucher programme of EUR 200 for the acquisition of the object. In the first lockdown you were surprised, you did not catch up, Minister. But now, what is your excuse and you are not able to prepare them properly for the examinations? Ladies and gentlemen, the great change brought about by this bill relates to the adoption of qualification level 3, 4 and 5, and in particular to the introduction of level 3, which has so far not existed in our country and which includes the Vocational Training Schools and the OAED Schools. The main question is: What is the benefit of classifying OAS graduates at level 3? It is the only level that, at the moment, does not exist in the National Qualifications Framework, because unfortunately, there is no positive impact on the Greek education system, especially on adolescents, who are most vulnerable to school failure and early abandonment of education. On the contrary, it is extremely contradictory in a society of skills and skills to open up paths to under-education, to effectively remove early and indirect degradation from the good of knowledge. For pupils between the ages of 16 and eighteen years of age, the stay and continued careers in the age-compatible, safe and fertile cultural environment of the school, whether in general or in vocational lyric training at level 4, are a crucial issue. The OAU's apprenticeship is the only two-tier vocational education and training system in our country, which is identical to European systems and has already been evaluated as the most effective of any other national system. You degrade it while, on the other hand, you directly give the green light for the extradition of thousands of diplomas from private educational establishments, which are not licensed or controlled by anyone. Minister, the Greek economy and the labour market are not sixty - seventy years back, i.e. at a time when lower technical schools were called upon to play a different role that covered existing gaps due to significant pathogens of the Greek educational system. In 2020, educational coup d'état and vocational education and training are higher and it is about shaping a framework of quality, high expectations and with real potential and new paths for our children. This bill, in fact, does not regulate vocational education, but puts its main burden on vocational training and its link to the labour market. In other words, it does not propose, on an equal footing, the relationship between education and the market. The market is being promoted and education is being followed. Unfortunately, the introduction of level 3 marks the early exit of the most vulnerable pupils in an extremely difficult and demanding field, in which, in essence, the kind of atypical leak from circular studies to a lower level of technical training at the expense of knowledge is legitimised. More and more, the introduction of apprenticeships to minors poses exceptional risks to the development of forms of exploitation and abuse, which have also been identified at ages. The state's stake must therefore be to establish a strategy to encourage young people to a credible educational and professional orientation and to strengthen vocational education and training at levels 4 and 5, and not to establish an institutional space for a substantiated form of vocational training at level 3, unless in the year 2020, the government's objective is to exclude a portion of pupils, those who are in the PSE from the monitoring of lifelong learning programmes, because they lack basic knowledge that they would acquire in high school and thus have reduced flexibility and adaptation capabilities, which is the most important skill of a worker and that has the greatest demand from employers. A profession which goes beyond what will be the possibility of adapting them to the knowledge society of the 4th Industrial Revolution, where lifelong learning and the capacity to broaden educational horizons are permanent and pressing? Does this policy ultimately aim to form spiritually mutilated workers and to issue them to low-paid occupations? Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to request that the Minister now withdraw Articles 147 and 148. We oppose the ratification of the agreement prepared by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL for the establishment of a Greek-German Youth Foundation. We support and agree with everything that is stated in the Memorandum of the National Council for the vindication of German debts to Greece and the Network of Testimonial Cities and Villages of Greece from 1940 to 1945 "Greek Holocausts". We do not in any way agree with the attempted distortion of the historical memory of the National Resistance and the unleashing of the crimes committed by Nazi Germany against the Greek people. Such issues are the political view that they should always be provided in conjunction with the development of the national issue of German compensation and confidence-building measures. I conclude, Mr President - I shall end in half a minute - by referring to the amendments tabled by the Change Movement and request that they be voted on. I am referring to Amendment No 664 on the amendment of the period of nd it. 1 of Article 43 of Law 4610/2019, which refers to the students of the former Social Work Department of TEI of Western Greece, who joined the Department of Education and Social Work at the University of Patras. I am referring to Amendment No 665 on the creation of a National Training, Training and Lifelong Learning System, without discrimination and exclusion against disabled people and chronic diseases. It is a great deficit and we are asking for it to be accepted. I am referring to Amendment No 666 and we are calling for the inclusion in the list of heavy and unhealthy professions, as provided for by n. 3863/2010, and the granting of a Christmas 2020 gift to staff of the National Health System, the National Social Care System and, in general, the people of the first line to deal with the coronary pandemic, working in municipalities, trustees and media workers, as a practical recognition of their work and social offering. Finally, Mr President, Amendment No 667, which refers to a major issue. It's a question the Change Movement posed for the first time. The award to workers and their families of invalidity or death pensions made at work or on account of it by COVID -19. So far, the government for the amendments we have tabled does not say whether it accepts them or rejects them. However, today it is perhaps more important than ever for these specific amendments, which are institutional and very targeted, to have the view of the government. What he accepts or rejects them. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the time being.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, too. It is always the fault of the amendments, whether they are for the Ministers, whether they are for the government or for the House. At this point I would like to put for the adoption of the plenary session after 16 December 2020, unanimous approval of the Conference of Presidents, on the basis of the possibilities of FEC 187A/1/10.2020, Rule 15(1) c. I shall, by decision of the President of the Parliament, extend the term of office of elected representatives of the Parliament of the Greek Parliament to the Staff Regulations of Parliament (Part II, FEC 51/A/1997), as in force for up to five months, i.e. until 31 May 2021. By the same decision, the special deadlines for holding the elections will be fixed no later than the last Thursday of April 2021, due to the exceptional measures to protect public health against the dispersion of COVID -19. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u130	The House approved it unanimously. Mrs Maria Konnaka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece and from the beautiful Lesvos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. If in something really there is a large stock in education, it is from bills that are supposedly coming to upgrade it. In time with all governments we have received upgrades, but eventually every change is also a deeper blow to the content of education, to the possibility of obtaining integrated knowledge. It finally represented a change in the way of the school's conversion to an examination centre, which was increasingly pushing the children of the people's families further away from education, making it an increasingly important issue of resilience to each's pocket. In these kinds of upgrades, of course, the New Democracy Government is also excelled, which, instead of nine months in order to take all the necessary measures to enable schools and universities to open up and operate safely, instead of putting an end to this suffering of telecommunications, which for so many months passes students, teachers and parents to save what is saved from yet another school year, has made sure that they can use the quarantine to pass one after another the reactionary changes. This was also the anti-educational bill which passed the first period, in which it did not hesitate to include the regulation which could only be considered as a stumbling-up, the increase in the number of pupils per department and, of course, vocational training now takes place. Let me make a comment before I get to the bottom of the bill. It is certainly well known that this practice is going through serious changes in education with schools and universities. We also remember the Easter bills of SYRIZA, respectively PASOK and the New Democracy beforehand. In such a difficult year, however, you are aware of the serious problems facing the educational process, but also of the struggles experienced by children and their families with a dangerous pandemic in progress, with all the changes in the system of access to higher education, and of course, with the economic crisis literally sweeping, you come to surprise once again, this time, the candidates for the universal examinations with changes in the system of access to higher education. Now seriously, can you give the university departments themselves the opportunity to define the minimum import base, can it be seen as something else by legalising further classifying the departments, which actually strengthens elitism for some parts and is still undermining others? We believe that it is at least a challenge for the Minister to invoke the level of candidates for entry to universities when this level has been systematically formulated by the policy that all the governments in schools have, which is lacking in their educational role. This, of course, cannot be upgraded exclusively by increasing the basis for choice. Like, of course, the possibility of completing study at universities often depends on different reasons, from class barriers, on reasons that push students to work and not on their own intention and their ability to study. Much more challenge is to finally choose to implement these changes from this year's candidates, who have gone through with so many problems the last two and most critical, if you want, classes of high school. Truly, you show no mercy to the disciples. So when you are constantly creating obstacles to the access of pupils to the university, which have been added to a high school that has been transformed for many years into a hard examination arena, can you really think it is a free choice for children of popular families for vocational training? On the other hand, we think that it is a very conscious choice, not only of the government but of the European Union, to throw young people out of the educational process more and more into an army of cheap, flexible workers without rights and such that they are really adapted to the needs of the market, but of this market that you have shaped, this market, which makes profit, so the increasingly cheap labour hands and of course that can and can easily remove workers and replace them with the new models of training each time. We believe that you are also seeking to shape through these changes made by the bill, effectively creating cheap and even more prosperous training. We believe that the most reactionary aspect of this is the setting-up immediately after the high school of the two-year vocational schools, that is to say, to prosecute children from school for 15 years and to lead them only to the development of professional skills and to under-age work, which is either unpaid or subsidised by the State, that is to say, by sending fresh and free labour to businesses. Truly, is there greater barbarism than depriving children so early to access general education? Do you really consider it luxury for a few, with the wealth of knowledge that is gathered today, that children cannot complete the 12-year-old school even, that general education lessons, language, history, physics can be taught so that they can understand how the world is moving, in order to be able to change it, be able to acquire knowledge necessary for the full development of their personality? In other words, these are the foundations for their integrated professional path, regardless of the profession that will be followed by everyone in their lives. This does not, of course, concern either today, nor did it concern previous governments, which, through all the well-known changes in vocational education, did not solve the chronic problems, thousands of gaps in education, laboratory equipment, infrastructure, shortcomings in specialisation books and, of course, did not harmonise vocational training - as does the current bill - with modern developments in science and technology, so that they would provide students with all those knowledge and supplies to form the solid theoretical background and be able to monitor any development of the technology that is objectively available for every profession. On the contrary, where today's changes are aimed at responding to the on-the-spot needs of the market, creating, in essence, graduates, and unused workers in professions that will soon be devalued, in order to continue, of course, the continuous hunting of qualifications and conquests at the corresponding price. With an already disgusting situation that exists for years in the PSAs with features that open up at light speeds leaving thousands of students in the air who cannot continue in the direction they have started or who from the outset direct to specialities other than those that really want to depending on the sections available in their local schools, the bill not only comes to give a solution, but essentially consolidates this situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u132	Slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u133	It creates new bodies with the participation of representatives of employers' organisations and local bodies, so that at regional level too the skills of vocational education can be introduced according to the on-line and constantly changing needs of the local market. In other words, the choice of specialty for a student will not be made on the basis of his or her skills, but on the basis of what has been born, and of course, once the needs of the market change, he or she will run apart for new training. Once again, overall, the changes that the bill attempts are far from the need for quality and upgraded vocational education in line with scientific and technological developments and, of course, away from the need for a genuine degree that ensures full work and insurance rights in accordance with the possibilities of our time and not the jungle, which is shaped for all the workers. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. Mr. Konstantinos Boubas is called in the Greek Solution for seven minutes. In most, if you worked in newspapers, half of the text would have been thrown to you by the editors. There's no way, when the editor says a thousand words, you say two thousand. The speech is seven minutes. Adap it to seven minutes. Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u135	We are talking today about a very important bill for pandemic, which has to do with false professional attitudes all these years. We're just making a mixture. I hope it's not explosive for children, because it's just messing up the deck bureaucraticly. There's nothing else to do. Here I have noted all the articles one by one. However, I would like to speak in detail about the current situation and, above all, about the issue of compensation for which, as a Greek Solution, we have been shouting for years and in particular Velopoulos, even at this time when I have been at my disposal. We degraded professional high school too. Letters and arts go together. They're interconnected. What do you say? "The People of Letters and Arts". The wise people say "learn art and helpless, and if you starve around." But the data is changing. It's about what kids we want. I was telling a speech that I once read philosophers talking about the sensitive age of 15. A great philosopher said that this age is the lip of chaos, that is, children are between fantasy and dream. Mr Fotella, I heard you say, since you are also legal, that a child at the age of 15 has nothing to do with the child at the age of sixteen or seventeen or eighteen. A few months of difference play an important role in psycho-composition. Here we go to level 3, which is between fantasy and dream. He's a kid who doesn't know where his gradient is yet. Outside you'll see a lot of people who have been driven into art because of a lot of social, economic, and they really have the trick in them that they didn't study. I'm not saying all the kids will study. For God's sake. Every job is science. Every job is worth it. Because today the aluminum maker or the marble technician must also have knowledge of a marble. Another 'I do foreign-language departments' and another 'I teach English to children'. It makes a difference, Mrs. Zacharakis, that. For this reason, as a Greek solution, we question foreign languages and where they are intended. You're talking about Finland's model. Finland what has she done? He's made a decentralisation. In other words, local government plays an important role in its educational system. However, 57% of financing is from the public sector and private schools in Finland are only 0.5%. It's the best education system. The fact that it leads children to technical training has not reduced unemployment. That's what Finland's financial data say. Just what are the Finns doing? They give the man weight. 'Ukely well', but 'the most prosperous' in Finland. That's why it's the best education system. Why have we been driven here from a professional point of view? What were we talking about at the high? T.E.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.D.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.D.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L.L. Now what do we say? Universities. But you can't close the fishing school from New Machinery, take it down to the Messolonghi and the university of Patras not to accept it. I say it since you're from Achaia. Could we not have a professional orientation that we know that fish farming will be 70% of food in the future in order to invest? As we have not invested through the national strategic development framework in agri-foodstuffs to create agricultural research schools. Where's the PASPEGES from which I graduated from? They played an important role. Like Eklidis, Pythagoras, and Democritus. Employers took out, took out topographers of engineers who offered the masts in the technical field. But the ones after eighteen. You don't degrade. If you want vocational training, you first broaden the horizon of knowledge in the child to be well thought. Bring me today through the Greek Industrial Association the best craftsman who will be involved in anything. If he doesn't know what we're celebrating on 28 October, 25 March, if he's not linguistically sufficient as a human, as an academic cell, what should I do with him? There's a lot I could say. A friend today calls me. He can't go to the Yanna to get his child's construction. The universities are closed. You have devastated these people with the lockdown because they have shut down the universities, but the rents are running and my friend Alexander cannot go to Yannina. While financing the universities, why didn't you have to give these investigations to the market all these years? I remember Mr Kuretta at the University of Thessaly saying 'We were doing food research'. All university research could be a tool on the market. You have to force the universities. I have a little time and it is very important what we are going to vote on. Computer Taxation Office. What have you done, gentlemen of 2014, when this is the first time you wanted the accountants to pass it on to the revenue table - the cost of the suppliers? The SYRIZA government gave an oral extension from 23 January to 25 January. It was, however, forgotten to legislate on this. Yesterday, only in my prefecture, the Serres prefecture, three and a half thousand fines were shared among small farmers from EUR 100 to EUR 800, because the system considers these tables late. The tragedy? Revenue shall be considered in a timely manner, overheads. It's going crazy for the first time. And while they had promised they'd give this five-day extension, today they're chasing the fines all those little guys. Mr Stavros withdrew the amendment for technical reasons. To the accountant who is a coronary, they do not give an extension for the repayable advance to customers. Mr. Villard knows all this as an economist. So what do you do if we want to have social consensus? Since it's the Minister here, if you study the history of medicine, with the helium of the virus, we waited for the second wave. It was here that we were talking, Mrs. Keramea, and I said, without being an outspoken, nor a guess that on November 15 you're going to close the schools. A specific date. You did turn it off November 15th. We had this debate at the end of August. You told me you had fifty thousand laptops. I don't know if that's true. So you told me then. Now, for the universities, for the 'A' phase, for the 'B' phase, for the limitation of the computerised document, to reduce the percentage of students who go to schools that are not their choice, we have to inform the children that the system of pan-Hellenic examinations will be the same, but the schools that will declare in the computerised document with the 'A' phase and the 'B' phase to limit also some transcriptions or 30% of the eternal or retired students I'm saying, will be discussing it, as long as you have not pushed us in, because I think you also have a meeting with the extremists tomorrow. Give me a minute, because this is a historical memory, Mr President, which I would like to present. I'm not a lawyer. As a journalist, I have dealt very much with German compensation, because if you go into the network of martyr cities and count the villages, it is over ninety-two, ninety-three. I'm from the Municipality of Amphipolis in Serres, who have the martyrdoms from Vermacht and the Nazis. Listen, gentlemen. You now have a responsibility in history. Go inside, cause a debate, to see the mistakes of the governments since 1945 and the Paris Convention on Reparations, the first 25 million dollars we got for equipment, to learn the world in the London Treaty, what does Article 5 say about German compensation in 1953? Why didn't we go to the 1956 meeting? In order to welcome Dorchois, as with the Germans now, because, then, we have made use of this word - in Germany - to be her favorite child, while all the other states, Belgium, the Netherlands, Benelux countries, France, had decided. We 'we did it happierly.' He accepted Evangelos Averov the 115 million marks from the 200 million we asked for - be careful - but go in and see how photographic the decree 4178 of 1961 was later forced by Constantine Karamanlis to give the remaining 4%. In short, history is too great for the issue of German allowances. In conclusion, see what the late Yiannis Stamoulis won at the Multicolored Court of Boeotia in Livadia and Papachristos, the Mayor of Boeotias, for the struggle that the Kerdyllites and the inhabitants of the Kalavry. Look, he was entitled to Italy's Supreme Court. There was a third-party confiscation of 25 million euros for Distomites from the Italian railroad, where the Germans received a percentage of tickets. In other words, the Italians opened the way to compensate the inhabitants of the Distomos by Giannis Stamoulis. Go see what his daughter Christina Stamoulis says. While the Italians deserve them, we cannot smoke the mortgage and what the Germans owed to the infamous crimes that Nazi Germany has committed, because they have only taken 56%. Imagine that 5% paid for it to lawyers too. Be able to see what the mistakes were, because it was photographic, ordinance 4178 of 1961. Yannis Stamoulis was vindicated in the Supreme Court of Appeal. It's a story. You are provoking a debate in order for the Greek people to know what German compensation means, what Article 5 of the 1953 London Treaty says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Booba. Mrs Fotini Pipili has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to make a political point, because many hours and many days we hear colleagues, especially on the SYRIZA side, with the permanent relentless first of all in any bill that gives us the order to withdraw them. We're not withdrawing it. We're voting on it. That's the way democracy is. Also, the new model is threats. I heard Mr. Nikos Friend threatening us that our time has come. All this, of course, is heard by the Greek people. They keep telling us that there was no discussion. In other words, to understand, it's not "Phillion" on Skoufa Street, where the left-wing intellectuals gather and speak nights and days with no results. We have seen for four and a half years these café effects of governance. I would point out that apart from the death penalty that characterises the SYRIZA side, we have something new, the memorial. In other words, I hear colleagues having a memorial in the four and a half years that they have governed and presented to us how perfect they have done it all. So I ask them a simple question: After you have been doing so perfect for four and a half years, why, first, have you lost the election? Secondly, because despite the many problems facing the present government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, not only does it not pay political costs, but on the contrary gain increasingly the confidence of the majority of Greeks? The bill, therefore, comes to button on the liberal reformist and modernising programme for education, which was a primary government announcement. Especially this bill, whatever some say, opens up paths to the education and learning of young people in professions that are not only necessary now, but are scarce today. The rates of the fourth industrial revolution go beyond the old techniques and a similar professional orientation and new know-how is required, but they go beyond what they have tortured and tortured many families, but many new children, insisting on a conservative concept that educated and successful is only the one that cannot, however well, enter the university and with two rating points. In fact, there is provision for extending the institution of the standards that we are discussing and of vocational schools, where pupils will be selected on the basis of the High School Dismissal and teachers on the basis of their qualifications. My personal view is that the bill thus liberates many young children, boys and girls, as I have said, from the oppressive mentality of several parents on the one-way street'my child, you will definitely enter university'. Here we have world cases of people who didn't even go to college. However, they had technical training and developed it. We must not forget that. Need-to-demand training for a few and weak people in general education is done - as you can see - a conscious choice for many and a development policy tool and offers new alternatives, essential and above all free and preferable options. When I first read the bill, I remembered the Haroscope School and how it was founded by a private person, Charokopos, who succeeded and gave a lot of knowledge, so professional in other times far back, in 1929 and ended in decades to be the High School of Charocopos. The examples given to us by the Minister, Mr. Keramou, speak for themselves even to the most illusionable. Who can disagree that now in Ptolemais, which is abolished the region's fossil wealth, the hazardous fuels, namely lignite, should not come to the state and take care that the locals and others who are interested are trained in order to be able to go through the new phase of electricity generation with new renewable technologies? Who disagrees on the regional council in the Cyclades that can locally see whether there are shortcomings, for example in specific tourist professions, that young people can be trained? Who disagrees with what I said yesterday that young people in the fertile plains of Elijah and Messinia, but also in the mountainous regions, should not have access from the state to specialized studies in the missing techniques? I will give you the example that we all know: the best Greek oil is sold in Italy. The Italians standardize it and sell it at a price of three times, because here there is no Knowhow for standardization, no know-how, no export capacity. Corresponding to Kosani, we have the expensive, rare herb of the Kosani yolk. Is it not clear there that professional education of the locals and others, such as botanicalism, should, with their care of a state - what we do now with the bill - give opportunities to young people who are interested, who are also people who do not want to live in towns as cashiers in supermarkets or elsewhere and who want to stay in their country or countryside in order to have contact with nature, but with trained knowledge, so that they also have a profession? We also talked about Achaia and sultanina, about how many possibilities are being opened to return to productivity and exportability of that region, as well as to northern Elias. At my place of origin there is a very small village - which is now of course evolving - called Fascomilia. What does that mean? That botany - I repeat - is a global trend across the food scale, which should have equal vocational training for young people and not just in the region. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] I am now going to the end to say that we are also listening to the market. I said it yesterday. We live in a capitalist regime. What can we do? We live in the free market system. The state's responsibility is to control the market not to be uncontrolled, which is why there are the relevant departments of the Ministry of Labour and other ministries. Take the hamparily that, whatever you say about the market, it is the market that opens the jobs, because the Soviet-type culture "we are appointed where comrade Stalin and his company tells us" has been demolished and will never come back. There are children in the province who triumph and have a sweeping potential in the region. There are children who don't care about becoming unemployed lawyers or becoming unemployed doctors, because you see that with this education system and this attitude most learnt are tortured, so they can choose, if they have talent in machines...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u138	You're welcome, Mrs. Pipili.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u139	To be able to have a vocational training course. Finally, I have heard the previous colleague tell us that if they go to a professional high school, they will not know how important it is on 28 October. It has been proven since I reported in my youth that half the graduates, even today, if you ask them what we honor on October 28th or March 25th, they certainly don't know how to answer. Also, education is not taught. Education comes from personal...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u140	Mrs. Pipili, please, finish it up. You've reached nine minutes. Just a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u141	Good. Wait a minute. I didn't count the time because I don't have a timer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u142	But I'm counting on why I'm watching time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u143	In the previous speaker and in the previous speaker you did not have an orgasm.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u144	I just got up on the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u145	I'm finishing here, but because I've been director and editor and editor and editor, you know, the editor if he doesn't determine time and space from the beginning, he's also fired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u146	Be well, Mrs. Pipili. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you are from far away or you are here, you must be in time, because otherwise one will invoke the previous one in the process. Mrs Theanoo Fotioou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u147	How proud do you feel, Mrs. Keramos, today with an opposition that votes against a set of bills that you think will change the educational things in our country in vocational education and have brought it in in the middle of a lockdown just to vote in this way, with an empty House? How much do you like this picture? The bill introduces two divisive areas. The first is in the body of vocational education itself, and the second is the indivisible vocational and general education which they must operate as transport containers. It exacerbates the cultural inequalities in our country's youth and undermines its future. He tries it in time of pandemic. Immediately, your tactics. The pandemic appears as an opportunity to overturn here, in this particular case, a tradition of centuries. It overthrows the good Greek tradition that emerges from the 19th century in the early post-revolution years, with a clear aim for education to facilitate social mobility and to alleviate the consolidation of class discrimination. In the 20th century, the connection between vocational education and general education is the Gordian link, but at the same time the identity of the Greek education system. In other European countries, the reverse is what you are doing. In particular, workers' unions have been trying for decades to abolish the bad tradition that comes from the middle ages and wanted the children of the people's families to be excluded from education, to get into work early and to remain in poorly paid and uninsured jobs. The rapporteur of the New Democracy told us not more or less - we have certainly heard them from other speakers in the New Democracy - that many graduates of the IGC, many graduates and doctorates are one of the causes of youth unemployment and immigration. It's just the opposite. All scientific studies conclude that educated young people have much more opportunities to find work and adapt to different environments with different knowledge and skills requirements. They confirm this and ELSTAT's data. The smallest risk of poverty is faced by those who have completed higher education, 7.7%. More than one out of four young people are at risk, but that is 22.7% of them have completed compulsory education. One out of six young people, 18% of those who have finished high school and, as I said, one out of thirteen of those who have completed university education. Explain this, rapporteur, to the middle Greek family. I'm tabling the ELSTAT table. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theano Fotio, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] No, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. Unemployment is not due to the incomplete vocational training and to the distorted university education of the graduates of the HEIs, who are advertised here for so many days. What do graduates who do not know abroad know? Has this contradiction ever crossed your mind? Unemployment is due to the crisis, the budget and now pandemic and the lack of adequate policy on economic growth and the creation of new jobs. It is because of your blind confidence in the so-called market forces. Practical practice and apprenticeship are, of course, essential elements of all vocational and general education at all levels, including doctoral scientists. This is why workshops, simulations and organised practice and training in enterprises have been developed. In the 15 years of apprenticeship, however, and without compensation for the apprentice, the employer also undertakes to continue to employ him and then it is a crime. The payment to which the Minister referred from an ESRB is lame. Experience from similar regulations in other countries has shown that this unpaid work in too many cases is a secondary auxiliary job, it is a press job to cloth or make coffee. That's exactly what you keep for these kids. Who controls what the employer will do to the apprentice? Which environment are you sending 15 years of age? The 15-year-old is not allowed to have an employer. It needs to be enrolled in school, learn, acquire in addition to general education and knowledge that will later be needed in the profession that he chooses. In fact you want to condemn these children to immortality and therefore to the inability to adapt to the changes that are taking place and will continue to take place in the world of work. That's what you're working on, the ignorance. The bill provides for the decentralisation of vocational education and the definition of curricula by the social partners, as you call employers' associations, trade unions and local communities. If you consider this connection to vocational training with a labour market, you are far from modern scientific problem and discussion and knowledge. The definition of professions of the necessary qualifications and the promotion in the future and the needs of the future is a matter of long, continuous and deep scientific research. There are such scientific bodies in Greece. The state has the unions of employees, etc., and, of course, they exist in the institutions. These bodies can advise the State on defining skills and programmes. All the others, all the things that parades these days by the New Democracy MPs about what jobs need to be done in every place, are sterile populism, flattery of the local players concerned, and lead to the holders of skills in unemployment and poverty. With the integration of the IEKs into formal education, a consistent request from the owners of IEKs and colleges is met. Everyone knows that college owners have private IEKs. Who doesn't know? From the outset, they wanted to connect their businesses to the IOIs, so that they could finally acquire more customers. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end in a minute, Mr President, with your tolerance. With the possibility of private IEK studying as a qualification for the introduction of out-of-examination at the IEIGs, a part of higher education is actually privatised. After your constant failures to abolish Article 16 of the Constitution, to privatize the Greek AEI, you are now trying bypass, bypass. Very soon we will see ads - we will be here to remind you of them, if you are still a government, Mrs Keramos - private IEK, who will falsely say that they provide university-level education and that they ensure a place in the HEIs, since, of course, the interested parties pay both IEKs and colleges. You demand payment for registering in public IEK, supposedly to prevent the abuse of post-military service while you know that this is controlled by modern media. For another reason, you are doing this: to get used to the people, the whole of the Greek society, that for education we must pay. That's your target. We will vote against the bill, in the name of the youth and the future that we owe them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Fotou. Ladies and gentlemen, please for the time. Mr Vassiliardos, the Greek Parliamentary Representative, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in introductory terms, apart from unconstitutionalism - although the Constitution is constantly being violated by the memorials - and also by the fact that Articles 147 and 148 have to be withdrawn, where we did not understand why the Minister addressed to us about Article 28, which we have not even mentioned, made it clear to us that the words 'Liberation of the Agreement between Greece and Germany on the Hellenic-German Youth Foundation', knowing Mr Mahilla's recent departure from the Hellenic-German Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in which he has been a member since the 1980s and the president in the last twelve years, while his grandfather has been a founding member since 1924. As he said, he felt frustration and anger from Germany, among other things, because he does not care about the violations of our national sovereignty by Turkey, while at the same time he continues to equip it. I make his statement in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the statement referred to above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We wonder what a Greek-German Youth Foundation has in common with a country that, apart from what Mr Malis said, has been in Germany since the eighteen years, has condemned us in the memorials, whose mass media raved us with the shameful photograph of Aphrodite with her finger up - we all remember - who refuses to pay her war debts to us, which will eventually dismantle the European Union and the Eurozone with her attitude, etc. We know, of course, how German-speaking our Prime Minister is, although he is his right. We also know that his government has turned Greece into the seventeenth Federal State of Germany, where German football matches will be broadcast from summer to Greece. But the seventh state, without rights, but with obligations, reminding Puerto Rico's relationship with the United States. The fact that we know this, however, does not mean that we welcome it, especially when it does not benefit us at all. However, we hope that you do not start a new kind of childcare to attract our educated young people, who cost at least EUR 200,000 per person for their education in the state and their parents. After all, this country has already absorbed more than 150,000 young people, who have cost us their training of about 300,000,000 euros. It is not enough, that is, the robbery of our material assets, but it also wants our best inspiring potential. In the bill now, the government, following the reform launched at the three levels of education, attempts to deal with a neglected sector: vocational training. In fact, however, this is not an initiative of its own, since all of this is provided for in the eighth evaluation, on the pages that we shall be tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There it is stated, among other things, that the new IEK and the PSC standards will start operating from 2021 to 2022. It also writes that they will be fully developed within four years, in line with the regional needs of Greece in the labour force. So it seems that the future owners of our country, following the sale of public property and private auctions, through the bankruptcy law - an abortion, which they have launched and which we must not forget, are already looking after the training of the workforce they will need in their businesses, while the government is simply applying what they impose on it, literally many times. Control bodies and support for specific educational structures are also set up, and the usual recruitment and transfers are under way. According to the General Accounting Office, 20 people will be recruited at the General Secretariat of Vocational Training, Training, Lifelong Learning and Youth, in Article 89, at a cost of EUR 330,000. Secondly, a Directorate-General with status allowances, costing EUR 52,500, will be set up under Articles 80 to 88. Thirdly, the Institute for Scientific Policy will be set up, under Articles 96 and 97, by paying an allowance of EUR 21 000. Fourthly, you will be recruited up to 300 alternates in the course of Physical Education at the cost of EUR 4,96 million in Article 111. Finally, an annual EUR 1 million will be spent on the Hellenic-German Youth Foundation, Article 147, whose establishment was signed in Berlin on 4 July 2019. Furthermore, the possibility of financing the Fulbright Foundation, the flagship of the international educational exchange programmes supported by the United States with Article 116, just like ELIAMEP, is being remembered by the bill by Mr Georgiadis. Greece, therefore, will finance German and American institutions. Unbelievable, but true. There is also a number of other costs that have not been quantified, such as those for the creation of new IEKs and ESDP standards, which we believe may be important. Generally now, the bill follows the recent study of the distribution, which highlights the high rate of youth unemployment at 35.2%, from 22.7% before the memoranda and 58% in 2013. Its fall is simply because of leaving abroad four hundred sixty-seven thousand young Greeks aged twenty-five to forty-four years, according to this study, noting that - at the Pissaridis Report - 28% of the people employed in Greece have a higher level of skills than required to carry out their work, as opposed to just 8% on average in the OECD countries, obviously because our country has been completely de-industrialised. Finally, without further expanding, after being analysed by our rapporteur, the bill focuses on setting up directorates and departments, and also on setting up councils, without launching those changes that need an effective vocational education and training system for our country. In this context, we consider it appropriate to mention that part of the vocational training of the updated Greek Solution programme which will be released in the new year, with an area of approximately five hundred pages for all sectors, such as'red' loans, for our macro-financial positions, for the financial system, for primary production, for tourism, for industry, industry, innovation, taxation and development, as well as for health, demographics, insurance, energy, infrastructure, public administration, justice, foreign policy, national defence, civil security, parliamentary security, immigration, family, education and private education. A complete government program. In particular, we consider that one of the most important pillars of our nation is education, since for all of us Greeks our educational system plays an important role both in maintaining our tradition and in developing our country, how much more so when Greek citizens are called this difficult period of time, in the middle of a vast economic, national and social crisis, to tackle the dismantling - literally the dismantling - of the dismantling - of the education of the governments concerned, which have literally destroyed everything in the country. Through our proposals, we fully identify what kind of education we want, but above all how we can bring back knowledge and learning to the young Greeks. We believe, of course, that without the radical resolution of the problems of our economy, which is in a more trivial position than in 2010, which we deliberately led to the memoranda, it is not easy to improve education, as is the case with all other sectors of the public sector. However, we believe that education, both medium-sized and higher, must be linked directly to the professional career of the new Greeks, so as to contribute to the economic development of the country. In this regard, our proposals promote the student's spirit and personality, while at the same time highlighting his skills, skills, tendencies and talents, and we consider it necessary to set up a cross-party committee. The aim of this committee must be to draw up a 12-year training programme which will be applied compulsoryly and exclusively by any party or government coalition is in power. The main aim of this committee will be to set up a log of changes and reforms aimed at reconstituting and upgrading education, with additional specialists helping with their knowledge in its work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry. At all levels of education, however, the teacher must be the person who will convey true love for the student for the homeland, for the history, for the religion and for the family, and the person of each teacher must be the inspiration of the student so that he remains committed to the values taught by the teacher. Especially with regard to technical and professional high schooling, it is only reasonable that 30% of our young people choose them because vocational education due to the continuous unscheduled and fragmented reforms has never been able to connect with the social and economic developments nor to meet the current needs of Greek society. The reason for the failure lies mainly in the fact that the increase in the supply of vocational education, pursued by all governments, did not find a corresponding response to the demand for techniques and such studies by young people, but especially by their parents. In simple terms, because of the problems it faces, technical and vocational education has never been a attraction for students, as is the case in other countries and especially in Germany, which wants us to adopt this programme. On the contrary, the impression was made in Greece that this is a type of education, which is an alternative to low-school pupils, while many believe that these schools are downgraded both in terms of educational efficiency and in terms of a more general school environment. Therefore, parents avoid them, preferring general education for their children. In our view, single compulsory education must provide all its students with the same knowledge and skills, but it must also provide them with the opportunity, on the basis of their gradients, economic and social needs, as well as their desire for learning, to find training courses in more than one educational structure. In order not to be considered, technical and vocational education for bad students - that is the case - the Greek state must encourage participation in vocational education by providing incentives, such as: First, the carrying out of certification examinations at regular intervals. Secondly, recognition of the results of formal, informal and non-formal learning at national level. Thirdly, ensuring modern areas of vocational education through their proper funding, always in economic terms. Fourthly, ensuring the quality of vocational education by trained teachers. Fifthly, information through seminars during formal training on vocational prospects. Sixth, apprenticeship programmes at work, as well as programmes for the entry of unemployed into the labour market. Seventhly, strengthening of school, counselling and professional guidance, as is the case in all other countries except Greece. Eighth, economic incentives for enterprises to provide practical training for trainees or graduates of an ECE. Ninth, upgrading of infrastructure such as workshops, training machinery and so on, so that only theoretical background is provided. Finally, no age limit for people who wish to train professionally. In conclusion, we will once again emphasise our great differences with New Democracy, especially that we are in favour of the national state and against uncontrolled globalisation that reduces the wages of workers, while deliberately converting societies into multiculturalism, so that they can be more easily controlled. We are against the enlarged state of service promoted by the New Democracy and against state interventions, such as the valuation it has recently adopted only on antiseptics - if I am not mistaken - and not on all the other species that have been greatly revalued, such as supermarkets. The exception is the problematic periods where the state, as Caines claims, should intervene in support of the economy, but should leave immediately afterwards. In any case, we are against the great government coalition of New Democracy - SYRIZA, which clearly seeks Berlin to serve its own interests, especially a painful compromise with Turkey. Finally, we are in favour of an investigation into the dark period - really dark period! -2009-2015, where Greece was mortgaged and handed over its national sovereignty for no reason, accumulating further mountains of debts that the future generations of Greeks, who are staying in Greece, will pay expensively. As far as the SYRIZA's so-called sensitivity to income inequalities that we have been constantly hearing during the budget debate is concerned, does SYRIZA really not know that the memos he signed are the ones that increase income inequalities? Why this hypocrisy? In all the countries where the IMF has gone, that is exactly what is happening. In all the countries that have implemented Memorandums, income inequalities are growing sharply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u150	Thank you. Immediately afterwards, Mr Christos Tarantilis has the floor from New Democracy and the Minister will follow. Here you go, Mr. Taradili, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering the draft law of the Ministry of Education on the restructuring and upgrading of vocational education, training and lifelong learning in Greece, a sector that plays a key role in creating new opportunities for students, students and workers and strengthens the development potential of Greece. It is true that chronic malfunctions and distortions give rise to vocational education and training. This is evident not only in empirical terms, but also in studying the findings of our country's state investigations, in comparison with what is happening in other European countries. The Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, therefore, conscious of the importance of restructuring and upgrading vocational education and training, has drafted this draft law, which aims to attract more young people who hope for a better future. The National System of Vocational Education, Training and Lifelong Learning opens a new perspective with developmental, educational and economic dynamics. The aim is to address the identified problems, such as the lack of credibility in the certification of professional qualifications, overlapping between educational structures, outdated curricula and insufficient interconnection with the labour market. It is noteworthy indeed that the critical sectors of the economy are not served by appropriately trained human resources, at the same time as youth unemployment remains high. It should also be noted that level 3, 4 and 5 qualifications are acquired mainly through vocational education and training and are estimated that by 2030 they will account for 67% of jobs. It is therefore clear that vocational education opens up new employment prospects. For these reasons, the proposed reform is primarily aimed at the single strategic planning of vocational education, training and lifelong learning, so that for the first time there are distinct levels of qualifications, similar to those of the European Qualifications Framework, without overlapping of structures and services. In addition, it will become more - I would say - desirable and effective an educational system for promoting professional qualifications. Immediate relevance and linkage to the reality of the labour market is needed. For this very reason, an important regulation in this respect is the setting up of a Central Council of Vocational Education and Training with the participation of social partners and representatives of the market. It is also recommended in each region of the country that the Association Council with Labour Market and Production be established to take into account not only national but also specific local conditions and needs of the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, the design of the New Democracy Government to upgrade the vocational education and training provided relates to all individual expressions, structures, processes, curricula and qualifications certification. The establishment of PSA, experimental and thematic IEK standards, the operation of professional development and career offices are truly important steps in strengthening vocational education, training and lifelong learning. However, in addition to the changes proposed by this bill, we should also stand up to another required change and this is no other than the change in our collective perception of vocational education, a culture that recognises the equal value and the necessity of all the links between the social and economic chains, away from and beyond stereotypes of the past. Of course, planning a new culture, that is, a way of thinking and action that defines and prioritises our priorities, is really not an easy thing, requires effort and time, requires delimitation of objectives. The emphasis needs to be placed, not only on how something is to be done, but above all on why we need it as a society. Example: Surely we want our young people to choose the educational path through which they will develop their gradients. We want education offered to meet the needs of the age and the labour market. We want qualifications that lead to professional rights and desirable jobs. We want people with high technical and professional skills, with future skills. A decisive role in the change of culture is also played by school guidance with enhanced systematic and experiential teaching so that students can search for their gradients, skills, personal pursuits that will mark an educational professional choice more appropriate than another. In any case, the draft law successfully provides as an insurance link for one tier to another, if for any reason one person has to revise his earlier choice. In addition, the modulation of society helps to embrace new ideas and behaviours. Therefore, a fundamental awareness campaign for society as a whole to upgrade vocational education and training and its return prospects is really very important. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that by its very nature vocational education and training runs one foot in the world of education and the other in the world of economy and business, linking learning to work. If we want to move to a sustainable productive model, we must support the building of a modern and efficient system of initial and continuing education and training. We must give young people opportunities for personal development and job prosperity. Let us not forget that we are living at a time that is constantly changing. Indeed, the goal of education in the 21st century must be to make every student ready for innovation ready to add value to anything he does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u152	The Minister has the floor now. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are concluding the debate on the reform we are proposing for vocational education, training and lifelong learning, a reform that is totally facing this neglected - I would say - a pillar of education, which is trying to cure its timeless pathogens and coordinated interventions to make vocational education and training a head start in the consciousness of society, make it a modern development policy tool. From the outset, I would like to thank the State Secretary, the State Secretary for their key contribution to the provisions of the bill, and I owe a special reference to the Secretariat-General and Secretary-General Vucino, as well as to all his staff for a very systematic work that has already exceeded fourteen months on this bill. The project is difficult, as the consolidated perceptions are difficult to change and stereotypes are hard to break. But the purpose is high. And the aim of dealing with the social scourge of youth unemployment is high, the purpose of limiting social exclusion is high, the aim being to provide our young people with alternatives of education and employment. Ladies and gentlemen, in our country we have this paradox: firstly, a significant rate of youth unemployment over a period of time. Secondly, demand on the market for technical professions such as graphers, flight curators, porcelain dentists, renewable energy technical installations, mechanics, ambulance crew rescuers, viticulture technicians, oenology, forest protection technicians. Thirdly, we have a poor offer for these technical professions. Fourthly, we have about 30% of high school pupils to choose the ESDP and 70% to choose the general high school, when these numbers are almost reversed in other European countries. Fifth, we have a massive wave of candidates to the universities. I will only mention the following: The students tested this year in the pan-Hellenic examinations were born most in 2002. In 2002, a hundred and three thousand children were born. After eighteen years, the candidates were a hundred and five thousand children, because we include the candidates they gave back. Everyone's aiming for a place in the university. And then what? Sixthly, our student graduation rate is the lowest in the European Union, 9% per year, when the average in the European Union is 24%. Seven, 30% never graduate and youth unemployment keeps well. Eighth, a significant proportion of graduates go to IEK. Approximately 25% of the trainees in IEK are finished. Why does he go to IEK? To get a job. All of this, which I have just described, is a distortion, a distortion emanating from a poorly understood mentality, from a stereotype, that conscientiousness comes only with the university degree and not from technical professional studies, even though the university graduate often has more difficult labour market absorption. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no good and bad way, there is no established and devalued choice. There are, and there must be, different options for young people, choices that respond to the gradients, the skills, the interests of our young people. But choices which also have an impact on the labour market. It is not a social 'lift' of education, but many. And there are many alternative routes. And it is precisely these paths that we have as a state to carve, strengthen, project and let our young people choose. And, of course, to ensure that on each of these routes our young people get the best supplies and tools. Such alternative paths are the ones that we are drawing up and strengthening today, the levels of three, four and five of the national qualification frameworks, which are established in line with the European qualification framework. We put an end to complexity and overlap of structures and services by establishing for the first time a unified strategic design and distinct levels of qualifications, modernise structures, simplify procedures, renew the curriculum, improve the method of certification. Our central aim at all levels, the closer connection of Vocational Education and Training to the labour market, studies that will bring quality prospects for our young people. How is this connection achieved? Through the detection of the needs of the labour market, national and regional detection, first through a national council, but also through thirteen regional councils, involving the social partners, bodies and representatives of local government, among others. At level 3, after high school, we anticipate the establishment of vocational schools for high school graduates. In this way we are giving young people who want to develop their special skills at the level of the craftsman and so far they have not had that opportunity. Our young people will ensure easier work in qualifications that the market is looking for and for which they are not currently trained. For example, marble artisans, aluminum craftsmen, external machine technicians. And if these kids decide in the process that they want to continue in the educational system, they'll have this opportunity to return to high school. Vocational training schools are a factor in reducing social exclusion, further reducing the disabling of pupils and giving the opportunity to those in the past who have leaked from the educational system and want to learn an art to specialize and then to be absorbed into the labour market. So those who are fighting level 3 - I say this in connection with the request for a roll-call vote that has been tabled - let them take a position that they do not want to reduce social exclusion and that they do not want to reduce the student leak. Do we introduce some important innovation? Oh, no. We are putting an end to a sad exception to the country. Do other countries have level 3? Of course. Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, the United Kingdom. All these countries have level 3. Are they all wrong? At level 4 we set up professional high school standards. We are building on the successful institution of the model schools in general education that Greek society has so embraced and extended to vocational education. Vocational school graduates will be introduced on the basis of their degree of dismissal and teachers will be selected on the basis of their qualifications. The PESD standards will work with public and private sector enterprises and so students will be able to contact the real world of work and learn from their experience there. At the same time, however, these schools will also operate as training centres for technical specialists, with a view to continuous and multi-faceted information and maintaining a high level of vocational training for pupils. These PSC standards will function as pilots to gradually extend the reform to all PCAs in the country. I'm coming to level 5. We are restructuring and strengthening the IEKs administratively and functionally. We are establishing public experimental and thematic IEC, always on the basis of the needs of the labour market. We allow IEKs to organise foreign-language sections and allow IEK trainees to participate in European Union programmes. We establish the operation of professional development and career offices to advise and guide trainees. We upgrade administratively and functionally the post-training year, apprenticeship class, in order to enhance work-based learning for the graduates of non-compulsory secondary vocational education. We support the EEA as a national qualification certification body and quality assurance in Vocational Education and Training and Lifelong Learning. Here I would like to thank the EEA and its Administration for its key contribution to the bill. And yes, we're putting order in the anarchy and unregulated landscape of the ex-CEC. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past few days, during the drafting of the bill in Parliament's Committee on Culture, a fruitful dialogue has been developed. A number of convergence points have emerged. At the hearing of the extra-parliamentary bodies, we saw most of those who honoured us with their presence in agreeing that the bill is moving in the right direction. Of course, there have also been signs of divergence, as reflected in the contributions made by Vice-Presidents, which are based mainly on ideological differences and identological obsessions. I will focus on three such points of discrepancy, although, in my opinion, one is basically the point of divergence, one is essentially the real ideological difference, at least as far as Prospective Opposition is concerned. Deviation first: the role of the labour market in the shaping of vocational education. The Anti-Population Party, and in particular the Civic Opposition, are calling on us for full subordination of vocational education to the needs of the market and business. For the Civic Opposition is indifferent, apparently, the specialty taken by someone to have an impact on the labour market. Why? Ideal. For example, we have market and business interests. I ask: Are we considering the interests of our young people? Do we just want to get a degree, a title, a speciality, without worrying about what they will do then, whether this will have an impact on the labour market and whether it will pave the way for a quality job? Do we ultimately want vocational education and training to be a development policy tool in the country? Deviation second: the possibility of a young person following high school on the road of a Vocational School of Training. The Qualified Opposition says 'no', enough not to allow minor work. Others allowed by law, other than that the Qualified Opposition itself legally supported minor work while it was government. Most importantly, however, the possibility of following the path of a vocational school is also an alternative offered for effective integration into working life. Yes, we also support adults who have leaked from the official educational system, but also vulnerable groups. We support them in specialising in a field of the craftsman's level, training, certification of their skills, being absorbed into the labour market or continuing on another path of education or training, such as supply chain technicians, welders, heavy machinery repairers, marble craftsmen. Why don't we give them a chance? I ask those who don't want Level 3. However, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the real point of divergence, because the others I think are clearly pretextable. But that's not it. It's a deep ideological. It says, therefore, that the Qualified Opposition "The New Democracy's legislation on vocational education and training is now coming to worsen social inequalities, freezing the social elevator". For the Qualified Opposition, the social elevator of education is one and leads only to the university. That's why, while it was government, he did everything he could to get everyone into college. We had more entrants, more university departments. Here we were coming to see parliamentary amendments for the establishment of university departments, abolition of pan-Hellenics, introduction of 'green' sections in which one enters without even pan-Hellenic Examinations. All on the altar of entering the university with '1' or '2'. It doesn't matter. All you have to do is get in, because everything else is subtle. Here, ladies and gentlemen, it is our deep ideological disagreement. The social elevator for you is one, for us there are many, with alternatives and interlinked routes. Equally useful and necessary is in our society a flight curator from IEK and an engineer from IEK, an ambulance crew rescuer from IEK and an AEK nurse, a IEK network technician and an engineer - computer engineer from the Polytechnics, a vineyard technician - oenology technician IEK and an OEK oenologist. Our aim is to give access to choices, quality choices of education, training and employment in vocational education and training structures and in universities. It is important for our young people to be able to discover their gradients and talents through these choices. We are talking about choices that will make them educated, trained, happy, creative and bring them to quality jobs. This is our central objective with this legislation. We therefore recommend a holistic reform that seeks to change the attitude of society towards the very important pillar of our educational system, vocational education and training, so that for a few people, it can become a conscious choice for many. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Dimitrios Biagis from the Change Movement, and then the other parliamentary representatives, i.e. Friend, Mr. Kegeroglou, Mr. Karathanasopoulos and Mr. Bugus, will follow. Here, Mr. Biagi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u155	Ladies Ministers, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, modern efficient and specialized vocational training is an excellent tool for progress. It also requires modern workshops, infrastructure, equipment and skilled staff, so that our children can open up their horizons in this direction, studying skills they wish and have a market response, offering both professional prospects and prospects of progress and modernisation of our own country. In the face of these needs, the New Democracy Government has submitted a draft law which seeks, on the one hand, to settle or otherwise settle its obligations towards its political friends, major private training establishments and, on the other, to create a cheap workforce, which can be unilaterally trained, but in no case trained, with the possibility of intervening and taking part in our course towards a real change in the production base of our own country. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill fully meets the demands of the great private interests that wish to speculate through the part of vocational education and the market, fully adopting the priorities that had been identified at times by professional bodies, so that the market and its pursuits are the ones that regulate vocational training at local level, define the curriculum of study and the functioning of the various specialities, making vocational training a subtle of speculators. Unfortunately, vocational education is not regulated by the draft legislation, since there is no institutional framework that will provide a model of cooperation and common responsibility and clearly confer the roles and responsibilities of the various parties involved. Ladies and gentlemen, given that the rapporteur for the Change Movement has very much developed our position on this bill, let me refer to my position in the second opportunity schools and, in particular, to supporting the operation of these schools in detention centres. Ladies and gentlemen, it is imperative to operate and support the second opportunity schools in detention areas. It is very important, in my opinion, that we examine every day the prisoners in detention centres, as well as the tools they acquire as prisoners, so that the next day they come out to society will be prepared. Through these schools, ladies and gentlemen, prisoners are fleeing the heated and cold imprisonment and entering creative action. In fact, they are given the opportunity for each day of their school to erase two days of sentence. Reintegration and release are collectively relevant to us, whether we want it or not. Statistics enhance this project, while about 80% of type 2 prisoners return to prisons, the corresponding percentages of those passed through the second chance schools reach a little more than 10%. It can therefore be understood that it is an obligation for a favoured state to ensure that there is proper operation and support for existing second-time schools. It is also worth noting that the usual state financing in such centres is being exhausted - in fact, ladies and gentlemen - at around EUR 100 per year for pharmaceutical coverage, at around EUR 100 per year for cleaning materials and at the maximum amount of EUR 300, 400, 450 for storage workshops. All this happens when day-to-day practice, studies and all that proves to us the need for support, existence and strengthening of these schools. We therefore need the following: support for existing structures. Secondly, the expansion of secondary schools, both in high school and in primary schools, so that there is functional and educational continuity in the work carried out, as well as the creation of such schools in detention stores, which are already compressed and crime indicators are being recorded upwards. Comprehensive and effective funding by the State in order to continue their uninterrupted operation. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, substantial and timely funding. Suffice it to say that in recent years, neither a single procedure - I repeat, nor a single procedure - has been completed for the supply of graphics. We are therefore keeping the second chance schools open, we are strengthening them, we are expanding the range of their influence. We need such a school to prove our real humanitarian character. It is high time we all stopped this hideous practice of putting human souls under the carpet. Until we shield our society, we can all talk together about how to support second-time schools in prisons and any other institution and initiative that gives quality to the lives of the prisoners. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before I finish my speech, to add that the second opportunity school that has been set up for the last three years and is operating in the penitentiary store of Corfu operates and is booming. Let me say that this is a school which, beyond its educational role, has managed to become a model of modern Greek Community. This school has been built with the support of local society and works with the love and dedication of all its human resources. The good cooperation of the administration, the penitentiaries, the teachers and the detainees, and of the local society itself demonstrates the importance given to the work carried out in this regard. Since its establishment, this school has received neither a euro for graphics nor a euro for the purchase of a pen nor for the purchase of an A4 glue. Ladies and gentlemen, “when he opens a school, closes a prison”, Victor Ugaux supported. So an investment in education, in our view, gives the place the best possible. So let us make it attractive for our students and our young people to learn a lot of vocational training. Let us stop producing as a society of unemployed and detainees, but active and thinking citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u156	Thank you for keeping time, Mr Biaghy. Let's start with Mr. Friend now. Will you take your dentistry, Mr. Friend?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u157	We'll see. I want your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u158	Good. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is legislating in the midst of a pandemic, not on urgent social issues, but on issues of time and which require a serious dialogue with the social actors, with society, to legislate in a substantial way and not by surprise. The government's responsibility at this stage is to give great weight to dealing with the consequences of pandemic on education. He doesn't. Speaking earlier in one of my speeches, I asked the Minister to reply to the letter, the request sent by the Citizens' Counsel, the Independent Authority, to the Ministry of Education for the deficiencies, to the problems which the telematics system has sealed and which have even created problems with the personal data of students and teachers. Has the Minister read this letter? Date of birth: 29 July 2020. I expect an answer because the Independent Authority of the Citizens' Counsel has not received an answer. Do you respect the institutions so much, Minister? Secondly, in the pandemic, we would expect the emphasis to be placed, on the one hand, on supporting distance education, but, above all, on preparing for schools to open up safe health conditions as quickly as possible. You don't. You can barely turn them off, and you can barely open them. This effort, which alienates children from their natural space, which is the school, unfortunately, will have many consequences for the life of this generation. We drove to two losers - last year and this year - years for children. But teachers are trying, of course, helpless, alone and children as much as they can, dizzy in front of the screens, trying to do that, or someone doesn't try or have any monitors. Thirty percent of the children, according to a survey I read, have no electronic equipment at all and a 25% of them enter the lessons remotely through the cell phone. This is the level of today's education, of distance education, for which you are taking on. You're coming now and you're telling us you're going to give a few hundred thousand equipment. Well, that's good. Yes, sir. Do you know when you're gonna give these? At the end of the year, it seems, because you don't tell us when. The fastest in two months. But the pandemic has started about a year ago, and now you take the measures, when other countries have run and secured credit and have given children and teachers the technology they need. Not only that, but you, instead of realising that we now need to open schools with health insurance, are discussing how we're going to lose all year, how we're going to lose the year with remote exams. We need lessons, lessons again, children in their natural space, in school with health insurance, and not, as you say, tests, tests again. This idea of yours is a spiral of your general strategy for a hard competitive school. And yet, conditions can be found to be fulfilled, to open schools after Christmas: Social distance, distance away, to dilute the student population. You've done nothing. As they close that way, the schools open. You won't find solutions that way, I understand. Decrease the matter. I stress it, to reduce matter. It's vague, in fact, matter. A little place enters the classroom and a smaller one participates. All teachers know about this, despite the heroic effort of teachers. To reduce matter, not to carry out tests or electronics. To postpone the Topic Bank. We have tabled a specific amendment. After all, it's an anti-educational measure. This year, with pandemic, you must not apply this measure. Remove it for at least this year. Thirdly, if you do not have a lot of rooms and you cannot find, reduce the working hours and have alternative shifts in schools, four hours, not exoticly, with a limited programme, with limited material. Fourthly, to recruit teachers so that schools can work all without problems. We're talking in particular, we're not talking in the air. Money is there. I stress, there's money. We have reached the point where the 2020 budget is being undermined. It was a little money in the budget, and it is even subordinated to this report from the General Accounting Office of the State. Well, that's amazing. Now you have to give money to open the schools, I repeat, with health insurance. Lesson, class again. No exams, no exams again. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that within the pandemic the government chooses to go ahead with the history of change in the introduction of children to universities. Does anyone want to get into kids with white glue, as the government "Bulgata" says? Oh, no. Are the children giving white glue responsible? I welcome the Government 'Bulgata'. Oh, no. Who's responsible? High school, education. It is obvious that it is not possible to incriminate children who enter universities for their scores. Somewhere the school doesn't go well, that's where we need to look for the problems. And there, as a government of SYRIZA, we tried to have a postgraduate, a change in high school, especially in the third grade. Unfortunately, instead of going there to look for, with changes in programs, teaching, with the improvement of the relationship between teachers and teachers, with too many things, we go elsewhere, to 'cutters', barriers of examination. The system that you propose, which is a variant of the '10' base, is a system that does not serve any worthy of well-intentionedness, is a system that is vicious to youth - I stress - socially not just biased but evil to young children. If it is implemented, we will have thousands of children who will not enter universities and we will also have dozens of regional schools, which will be closed this year or next year. Is that what you're pursuing? Such a reactive restructuring in the field of higher education? Say it, don't stunt. I don't know if the raids will accept this system. If some in central universities feel that their position is strengthened, regional universities' prerogatives will understand that there will not be much of the regional universities in the short term. Did it make such a choice from our society? I am sorry, but the whole debate, as we have heard from the Minister and from her, is a debate in which education on the social and economic deadlocks is being hampered. For the matter of violence, which suddenly schools and universities have become a man of lawlessness and violence, it is the universities' fault. But the violence is imported, it's imported. This violence is not produced in the universities. So get her out of here. What are you demagoging and wanting to set up police stations in the universities? Teachers want the universities, not the police, you want to send them. We have also heard just now that training is not helping children find work. It is regrettable what we are hearing, of course, is a classic neoliberal approach. They're fighting the school about the crisis that exists in the economy. Because who does not understand that unemployment is not caused by educational systems? Unemployment is caused by the economic crisis. Which country do you live exactly, Minister? In a country which has been going through two major crises for over ten years, the crisis in the memorials and the crisis in the pandemic today. Have we lost over 30% of GDP and now you tell me that it is because of universities and school for unemployment and youth unemployment? Uh, no. To accept that there is a question of further rectification of vocational education, no objections. I accept this because we have in our luggage a great effort as a government of SYRIZA, a National Strategic Framework for the Upgrade of Vocational Education and Training and Learning, 2016. This one. Holistic. No words, no action. This has been approved by the European Union and with this we have lifted the sectarianity and tens of millions of euros have been unlocked, with which we started establishing what has been awarded by the Commission, the ESDP school or a new attempt for the ESDP, with a fourth year of apprenticeship, which is with money - children are paid - and with insurance, while you are now bringing us, supposedly, a new project, which is not a new one, is very old. These are the memorial plans, these are the neoliberal choices, hard class choices, where you expand the minor paid and uninsured work. But are you telling us here all the time, "There is no work for minors in our country"? Of course, there is and we have fought as a government to limit it. I am tabling the programme that we have tabled and approved by the Commission for technical education, is multi-page, and all efforts have been made on the basis of it, which have responded and increased the number of children in the PES, teachers, workshops, money has been given by the ELIADEC and by the regional programmes, 65 million and 65 million in three years' time to upgrade technical training. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Philis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But here we are in a phase where you are trying to expand minor work. You're saying the children who end high school will leave and go to vocational schools. That's not a school, it's training. It's not training, it's training. It's low-level training. We've heard a few jobs before. So, low level training. We don't want that. We want children to complete their studies at a 12-year-old compulsory school. The time has passed when the compulsory system was once six, then nine years old, now has to be a 12-year-old compulsory. We are in fact trying to introduce this twelve-year-old compulsory. First of all, we conflicted with the malignancies of the school leak. There is this exhibition of EPA, the Institute of Education Policy, 2017. This report, which has been produced, has unfortunately not been repeated. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u160	Will you take your dentistry, Mr. Friend?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u161	Yes, Mr President, thank you, at least a part. There is, therefore, the EPP report and the act. Based on official evidence, SYRIZA's school leak fell to 6%. Do you know how much the average in the European Union is? It's 10.5%. That's not how it happened. And now there is an attempt to increase school leakage or, worse still, to remove children's access to high school schools, push them into unskilled, unpaid and uninsured work of minors. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the quality that each individual has in mind for technical education reflects the quality and social aim that development must have. Of course we want technical training and I repeat that we have fought and had results to some extent. We know that these results need to be integrated into a productive reconstruction programme in the country, which is not there at the moment and must be. This is not the Pissaridis report, this programme is for the very few companies. He hasn't talked about public health, he's talking about public education. All he has is a reset of memorial arrangements for multi-speed schools and for fewer schools and a perseverance against school teachers. This is the Pissaridis report on education. But, I repeat, can there not be a serious discussion about the future of technical education here, and again come to us in millimetres, trivialized neoliberal ideologies? Of course they won't all go to universities. No objections to that. Who says that? But will it be access for children to access uninterrupted, or will it have class barriers and barbies? A kid who's going to leave school at 15 and push it violently into technical expertise, early specialisation, where do we drive this child? Tell me. We are driving it into an uncertain future or rather a future of unemployment. On the one hand, with the great technological development, with the liquidity that exists in society and the economy, we need children who have gained a wide range of technological knowledge and, on the other, specialization in the seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, no objections. But once the 12-year, differentiated, technical general school is completed. So what do we do? In addition, general education, which concerns the children of technical education and not just general education, is essential. What society do we live in, what culture? What citizens do we want to have? Responsible and democratically. It is not just that children will learn poems, but they will learn to think about the more general social issues, about their lives, to explain the problems they have before them and not to become victims of reactionary stereotypes. This is the school that we are envisioning, a 12-year-old compulsory, that has this branching on the issues I mentioned earlier. This philosophical government, which inhibits child access at universities, today we heard that it was invested in the theory of many elevators. Listen - I apologise - I will say something because the Minister speaks of an elevator, about two elevators. In the old apartments there was an elevator for the tenants and one for the garbage. I'm sorry, but this is your perception of the many elevators. Well, social mobility - and that means permeability - is not to be all university teachers, but to be able to form an increased level, so that in their work, their daily lives can cope with the problems they have to face. So do not incriminate this tendency of children to want higher education. Give higher education and technology. No objections. Do not degrade it, however, and do not think it is a cheap choice that obeys, not the needs of society and the economy in a productive system of reconstruction but, unfortunately, in the so-called market, that is to say, in business. Because the whole debate that is now taking place is precisely the submission of technical vocational education and training to businesses, not to society and economic needs. Ladies and gentlemen, many issues have this bill and one would expect it not to be the way it is now futile in this bill. I would like to stress that pandemic is a period on the planet that exacerbates social inequalities. The answer to this danger, the reality of social inequalities, is not the adoption of social inequalities as a natural phenomenon, as the Prime Minister of the country said a long time ago, but the fight against social inequalities. It is not the differentiation of schools in good and bad. It's not the war against teachers. What does that mean that 93% of the teachers turned their back on the Ministry and on you personally, Mrs. Kerameos, and did not vote on the service councils? It means he doesn't recognize you as a minister and that's why. Can you run command at the Ministry when with the students you have rivalry? You even brought the MATs to your department. With parents, you have controversy, because every day they gravitate over telephony systems and teachers as well. They're turning your back. So you think this country can be governed in conditions of democracy? One last thing. It is clear that we will be tabling an amendment to abolish the provision whereby the elected representatives of the service councils are effectively abolished and that the Minister appoints the two unelected trainers. Ladies and gentlemen, the issues are a lot, as I have told you. This morning I had the customary communication with the masters at the meeting, and I mentioned the issue of the IEK. People fell out of the clouds. That, in other words, the EEKs based on the law, public and private, are less public than the ones that exist today, but by tuition and private, of course, what is today and more, they rank at a level which is essentially pre-territorial to higher education. Minorities of higher education, because it gives the right to children who end these IEKs - public and private, but in principle private - to enter the universities with a ranking examination. That's not categorical, it's delusional exams. The kids all finish school, high school, and they run tests once, twice, three times to get in if they want to go to college. Here's a gift to private IEK, to put in their ads "we postpone, we're enlisting to enter the universities". They are consistent with your ideology. All the measures you bring here are measures to reduce public education and to strengthen private life. You're building a large piece of customers for private education. This is the arrangement you're preparing for the history of introductorys in universities, with the staggering score you want to make. That's right. Tens of thousands of kids. If a similar system were to be applied in the summer we had calculated that twenty - four thousand fewer children would go into universities and a hundred and thirty sections would be abolished mainly regionally. That's what you start now. Where are these kids going? Private IEK. Not with a staggering score, of course, but with the parent's wallet. He's going to pay to get the kid over there. It is obvious that it is a choice of hard social bias - I stress it on the grounds of knowledge - it is a choice of adultery to children at a time when they are diagnosed by the pandemic, where the sociopsychological impacts have not yet been studied. They'll be big. The generation of these children from pandemic, from pessimism, from psychological relapse, should not be sealed, but they should be children who will look to the future with hope and trust. That trust and hope you, with what you have done, deprive them of it. That is why what you are voting on today is obvious that for us as SYRIZA they will not apply if and when we become a government. We stress this thing. It's a political commitment. We have a plan approved by the European Union that you are abolishing. You bring for your friends various plans and testify to them allegedly in favor of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Philly, you've consumed all your dentistry. For a minute, and two, we're not gonna mess up. I'm just saying it so you know. We are now continuing with Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglu. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me in principle a reference to yesterday's 'disclosure'. It was a common secret that Maximo intervened in the newspaper editors to check the information. I put it in quotes, 'cause we've been denounced a long time ago. In different ways the previous government, in most cases unsuccessful, tried more effectively by the current government using taxpayer's money. At the same time, however, we must also talk about the government's attitude to citizens' claims. Yesterday we had an opportunity to talk on the occasion and the procedure to do with the lifts. Today we have in all the media yesterday's news that what is important is not to spoil the image of the Prime Minister that Maximo intervenes in "Couple" and takes the head of the pension manager. Do not spoil the image of the Prime Minister with the banner with three people across from Maximos who had no problem with the rules of pandemic. As far as I know, mergers or nine are forbidden. But he was ruining the picture. The President of the Federation of Workers in Tourism and Food and two more federal officials in the police department were asked for explanations. In fact, what you want to do is to have a patched picture toward the citizens. Wrongly, if you think that with this wide picture, as long as you can manage it, by working on the issue of pandemic, you will have better luck if you continue your wrong and intentional policies. You also have wrong and intentional policies and the budget debate was revealing. It suits you to the bipartite monophony. It suits you the alibi of a SYRIZA, who obviously does not articulate a creative opposition for the benefit of the citizens, but is caring for your failure only to invest and win politically and partyly from it. We have a warning difference. We are interested in solving people's problems so that the world suffers less, so that we can support this difficult period for the weak, the workers, the small and medium-sized ones, we can keep society upright. What can I say about what has been heard before, that when SYRIZA comes, she will correct what you do? Let me remind you that SYRIZA was the one who abolished tertiary education. SYRIZA abolished higher education and left over three hundred thousand people graduates of higher technological education in the air. They have no link at present to the graduates of the departments of the universities in which the respective departments of the higher education institutions were integrated. No welfare. This, of course, also continues in the bill yours. So, by stepping on the road Mr Gabroglou has drawn, you are now abolishing vocational technical secondary education. That's what this is about. We cleaned up from the left with the tertiary technology and from the right now we cleaned up in secondary. One wanted scientists alone and you only want skilled workers. You are substituting vocational technical training with training. Training is a different thing, and in particular continuing training and retraining, so that there can be follow-up of developments. But what are you telling us? "Medium executives don't need or at least they don't have to be our middle management, let them be from elsewhere. We only need minimums.’ High-levels know how to choose. And that is a concept that is consistent with the development model you have in mind. Technical vocational training is in direct connection with economic, development and productive activities and developments. Depending on the political philosophy of each government, on the model of development it wants, we have the model of education and, in particular, of professional technique. We have heard the development model that New Democracy wants in the past few days. While starting with the issue of findings, which in the findings may have little disagreement, either the Pissaridis Report or the anti-examination report, I do not know whose anti-report report, or the scientific reports of the institutes of the social partners, INE, GSE, the Institute for Small and Medium-SMEs of GSE, the Institute for IOVE, FORTH, SETE, all these reports say and find a lot of things. We do not need other reports. We need political will to transform reports into a political programme and an implementation programme, into an integrated plan. This is where, the Change Movement disagrees with both the New Democracy and SYRIZA. We disagree with your understanding, because you first place the purposes, whether they be parties, or the services of the people who support you and support you, or others. Here, then, we must say that sustainable development with respect for the environment, in synchronisation with the fourth industrial revolution, cannot be associated with the social inequalities that are being widened, cannot be coupled with policies for a strong and modern social state that can really meet the difficult conditions that have been created. Sustainable development, therefore, and a strong social state, respect for work and the role of work in the productive model. The productive model that each government has and is promoted is judged mainly by two things: in relation to the position of human resources in the development and production process, and of course in relation to the distribution and redistribution of profits and wealth from growth. These two are the basics. Of course there is the general social benefit, there are many issues, but these are the basic ones. So here, what are you telling us? You say: the workers in the model that we have in our minds from Greece can be at the lowest level. We can't take out middle management. That's what you're telling us. But middle management is the backbone of the human productive system. The middle management. We are talking here about technological education, vocational and technical. We, not only are we not opposed to specialization, but we believe that specialization must be combined and with general education, it must also be combined with the prospect of evolution. I asked seventeen questions to ask this EEA, which you congratulated him on, the outline for some of the charges we were asking for, including the marble artisans you said. When for five to six years there is no outline, you tell me then, "I will now get the school out of them". We therefore have issues to do with the starting point, the more developmental and productive model we are talking about and what training system we want in this direction. Of course, there are individual issues with your bill. Before I go into this, however, I would like to say that the total lack of preparation throughout the previous period, the lack of experience from the first lockdown and in the field of education - because it was not just you - brought us completely unprepared in the second one. They're telling me that last night they had press releases, announcements that they're coming laptops, tablets and so on. Well, in March, wasn't the first lockdown? Now, did you get a lot of money that tele-education wants any conditions? What did you do to get what we call a signal and a possibility for telephony in every place? I'm not saying what you did 15 years ago, but what you did in eight months. Did you do something? Did the Digital Policy respond to what you asked him to do? Or didn't you ask him? Because when we ask the Digital Policy why it did not take care of it, it tells us that it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. You'll have to make things clear. It's exactly the same thing the Department of Health did. While the Greek Parliament said "within three months I will have fifty beds in "Save" and did so - because it has no purpose and proceeded with the plan as it should - the Ministry of Health, in charge of their staff, came here to bring us the amendment. Just the same thing as the tablets, just the same thing as the e-shop. The day before yesterday, he says, he was proclaimed by the Ministry of Development, which is doing fast jobs, the possibility of joining a program to create an e-shop. Well, didn't the market close in March? Now the program? These programs are made within a week. There are know-how, there are experts in both ministries and public bodies, and in any case there is this know-how on the market so that it can work directly. I have told you three examples in which you have bought a field for eight months. We are talking about an urgent situation, because we are operating in difficult circumstances and, of course, at the same time, the necessary initiatives are not taken, the decisions are not going ahead with what the government must go ahead. So you didn't do all of this, but it was urgent to get us the Greek-German contract! I'm making a comparison simple. It was urgent to bring for the Greek-German! I will say a few below, because it has to do with your understanding of this training. So because many don't talk about the negotiations with the Troika and the Task Force, but also the Greek-German, I am one of those who speak because I am clean and I always said what I and my party thought, whether we participated in a co-operation government or whether we were opposition or we were our own government. So, at the 'Task Force', I made it clear, as a State Secretary responsible, when they put me on the issue of the abolition of disability benefits and their integration into another'superior' system, etc., that legislative initiative and ministerial decision did not only take them into account, but made it clear once and for all that in the institution, for example, the minimum guaranteed income will not be taken into account as income. Because it's not an income. It's the state's duty to the disabled, so they can be typically equal. The second issue raised by the 'Task Force', Fuchtel and company, was the subject of technical training. I was wondering: What, my child, do those with technical training have?" He was pulling with him and two, three of the Ministry of Education. So Fuchtel, the people of the Ministry of Education and the experts from there - remarkable people, both Greek and foreign: "You know, we want craftsmen. We miss engineers. We now take from Syria - or from various cities, I do not remember where - 'and you can come to the factories ours. Not in Germany. Wherever he sees.’ The Ministry of Education therefore had this trend. To abolish vocational technical education, leave students alone - that's where you agreed - and train only. Training, in essence, comes to cover the need for diversification and development. It doesn't come as basic education. It is not basic training. So I told them that the answer is one: 'We do not consent as a Ministry of Labour. What we are going to propose, however, is to cover your own need, and of course the Ministry of Education is being pulled from this proposal. OAED is the body responsible for what you are asking for and which will be combined with the educational system. OAED shall be the OAED and we shall start with the needs of the country.’. And I had good cooperation with the Hellenic-German Chamber, despite our different views. "We'll start with the needs of the country, not your needs," because he told me that Volkswagen wanted mechanics. "Of course, we should also give you engineers if we meet our country's needs." In this perspective, it is a different matter. I said to them: "In tourism, as far as cooking school is concerned, will you make money to get infrastructure, do we have a school in Heraklion?" It was probably the only department that worked. Some trade unionists disagreed, for their own reasons, with the model. However, it was about our economy, tourism, school education, work education and integrated intervention. This, however, is another thing than secondary vocational training. I will say this once again: do not interfere with the formality of atypical education and training. You've done it. I come to two other issues. One thing has to do with the National Education Council. We have told you many times that the National Education Council must be reconstituted to play its part. There can be such consultation at this level, as has been done in many previous periods. I think you're on your way, throwing flares. This does not reflect the mature conditions for changes and reforms that will have a time-consuming perspective. The reform carried out in 1984-1985 in mid-1985, for example, lasted a dynamic for many years because it was the result of the need for consultation and the mature proposals that had been put in place and were the result of processing the social actors. That's why he had a dynamic. The same is the framework law for GNIs, despite its amendments. It had a long time, because it was a framework law. Now what are you doing? You want laws to regulate up to the last detail. It can't be done. Developments run so far that the main reform is the Ministry of Education to decide not by ministerial decisions, but by suggestions to the House and by legislation on everything and in detail. This is the basic reform needed. There must be the framework and within it the composition of governmental will, regional development policy, local development and social partners. In this sense, it is good that the proposal to create skills and sections at regional and development level comes back. I do not know if you have taken note of the disagreement that was not involved. In any case, these are issues you need to see. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A little time, Mr President, to finish with the amendments we have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u164	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u165	The first one is the RESEMA. It concerns the creation of an inclusive national system of education and training for lifelong learning, without discrimination and exclusion against people with disabilities and chronic diseases. We have tabled the amendment. It is our obligation under Article 21 of the Constitution to the rights of persons with disabilities. The amendment is institutional, absolutely. Consider it, and if you don't, tell us why you don't accept it. Consider it, though. Do not discard it before considering it. Heavy and unhealthy: It is essentially addressed to the Ministry of Labour and Health. It is the eleventh time we have tabled it, because we want politically to highlight the need to reward in practice - not with applause and words of air - all the people in the front line, health, hospitals, health units, municipalities, workers, officers, political and military staff, all who are in the front line and for whom we have also proposed a Christmas gift. Of course, a huge issue has arisen. Mrs Gennimatas pointed this out in the budget debate and the Ministers responsible must see it. The last bill comes tomorrow and should be included. It is the award to workers and their families of an invalidity or death pension which occurred during or after work by COVID -19. We have so far - I will only tell you in hospitals - eleven deaths and three dozen deaths at least permeated for both the public and the private sector. Most may be retired, but some are public sector workers who in JEPs or in some service have been contacted. It is perfectly mature to deal with this problem. Together with this, we have to deal with the subject of transcriptions - this is yours, Minister - of students who, due to COVID -19 - extraordinary - lost one or both parents. We have a case with two parents. The transcriptions concern both foreign and internal affairs, mainly. We have also tabled an amendment concerning IOTAP, so that, when it comes to Greek universities taking the thesis or drafting for a postgraduate degree, the recognition required when you work is not prerequisiteed. In the scientific section, I think it's perfectly fair. However, there is also an amendment concerning the TEI of Western Greece, but it is indicative of what needs to be done for TEIs throughout the country. This amendment says: 'Contribute to the fate of the graduates of TEIs - Social Work, in this case - in Western Greece with the fate of the graduates of the respective departments of the universities'. Tell what it is about and how this fate can be linked so that - generally speaking this issue - three hundred thousand people on the air find a way to work and insurance rights. We have tabled a proposal for a law from the previous parliamentary term. We will bring it back, because we believe that the people of technological education in Greece, although higher education has been abolished, have a place in work and in development and, of course, social justice must be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u166	I think you took time for the next bill too. Mr Karathanasopoulos, because the President of your parliamentary group has spoken, I will give you ten minutes as a parliamentary representative. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, the government's measures and education are not fragmented. In fact, the government builds on what the previous ones left and takes a step further. In other words, you form a system of education, which increases the class barriers to education. That is the main feature, because that is what the market demands, that is exactly what capitalist business needs. Because, in the opinion of the market, capitalist enterprises, the European Union, general education must enter the crisp of the reactionary and dangerous logic of cost-benefit. Is there a need for full, general education for one who goes to the city's cleanliness? No, there's no need. Is there a need for full, general education to be a technician for six months? No, there's no need. That is why all the measures go in that direction. In other words, you form in every way children of a lower god. That is precisely what your current legislation on vocational education also confirms, so that they can be created - that is, it is reproduced through the educational system - workers who are consumable, are recyclable, without claims, without rights and claims. It is for this very reason that what the European Union calls a'single scientific area' is formulated. What does it mean? It means that anyone at any level of education will be chasing credit units, chasing skills. You're breaking up the single objects of science. You create schools, departments, para - schools, para - departments, without any scientific object. You are doing the same in vocational training, in essence, to achieve what? - degrade the value of diplomas, the value of diplomas. The value of the diploma and diplomas is downgraded, precisely because you disconnect - all governments have done so - the degrees from professional rights, to form systems of parallel examinations - sometimes too expensive - so that a graduate can obtain a professional right, enter the roster of parallel examinations. The examples are too much. So, in essence, you form workers who do not have the general education, scientists who do not have full knowledge of the scientific object and therefore the possibility of critical scientific approach, because the new knowledge that is a revolutionary process is born through this process. That's exactly what you want to limit it to the club of the choices of the system. It merits the government pandemic in schools, essentially to speed up this process of increasing class barriers to education. Remote learning is a typical example. You slandered, blamed, did everything in your power - up to prosecutors you attacked - to hit the students' mobilisations, who claimed to operate schools under conditions and security status, with fewer students per class, with more teachers, with full personal protection. We have reached the point that you, as a government - not the pandemic - should close the schools and you, as a government today, should not have taken a single measure to reopen the schools. You'll expect the pandemic to go. So nothing else. Just like that. No way at all! Why? Because you know very well that through tele-instrumentation the difficulty of accessing the pupils of the people's classes to education is growing even further. Already today, it has emerged - not any club - the Association of "Roza Imbriotis" concerning the Vyron, Kessariani and Pangrati, the Centre of Athens, and says with official information that one of the five students does not have full access to education. We're talking about the Athens Center. We're not talking about a remote area. We are not talking about the examples that have emerged from the media in the province of Greece. So you understand how much worse the situation is, how much worse it is when there are'seven nomads in a room', which must also learn to do teleworking to do all the rest, and if this is not the definition of class discrimination, without means, without connections to the network, with connections to the network that are falling and with the whole situation that you are shaping. So equal access to distance learning is the shortest joke! You are currently coming to bring about - it says - changes in access to higher education. But if that's possible! Is that the problem they have? The agony of the students is, how will they get into tertiary education? Through this process, what do you create? You are creating even greater disruption, even greater insecurity, anxiety and uncertainty for students. Are you psychologically kicking 'em to achieve what through it? Upgrading universities? But, well, are you working on us now? Is that what this is about the universities? Is this the fault of universities in this situation, which have not opened up at all for a year and which have huge shortages in educational staff, in teachers? University of Patras: most schools cannot function because there is a shortage of teachers, special research staff and scientific staff. Thousands of flaws. In infrastructure huge shortages. You know that very well. At the University of Patras, the Architecture School has been operating in a container since the first day of its establishment. Since the first day of her establishment, the Architecture School in Patras has been in a container. You are well aware of the enormous shortcomings in student care. Student House, for thirteen years, 40% of the building hasn't been working because of the earthquake, because it's the building dangerous. What measures have you or previous governments taken to deal with these problems? Not at all, because that's none of your business. You other goals have other goals you want to promote. On the substance, instead of recruiting teachers, what are you doing? You hire police officers to enforce law and order in schools. You are deeply laughed, you know it well and you know it that you are sowing winds and you will reap storms with what you are doing, with these measures that you are taking. I come to a few more issues. The Minister said that unemployment - she says - was the fault of the educational system in Greece. Of course you did. You said it was the educational system, as it is structured. Another Minister, the Minister for Labour, said - for example - that for unemployment in Greece it is the minimum wage which is too high. To reach agreement on unemployment in Greece, in Europe, in America is the fault of capitalism. Unemployment is a consistent phenomenon, it is a child of capitalism. "Restrainted labor army" Marx called it. So it is to blame for unemployment. And through this process it forms the conditions for the compaction of workers' rights. The more unemployed are the more workers' rights are compressed, the employee's wages, their working time at risk that you may also be unemployed and take your place. In this respect, therefore, it is not the responsibility of how vocational training is structured on these issues. However, any planning you're doing for vocational training is sure to stay in the air. It's with clay legs. Why? Why cannot any design in what is the core of the capitalist system, the anarchy in production, how quickly a businessman jumps from industry to industry, from sector to sector and from country to country. So all you're planning is in the air, they have an end date. That is why you also want consumable workers who, during their working life, change ten to fifteen different jobs so as to be able to deal with the serious problems they have and which, of course, cannot be dealt with. In this respect, it is precisely this anarchy in production that shapes the conditions of anarchy in the labour market. Competition is the one that crushs rights. So what you call a 'high level of vocational education' is what it will be without professional rights? Does that mean upgrades that won't have professional rights? Does it mean upgrading the fact that they will be without working rights in a working jungle, which has been formed? No insurance rights? Is that an upgrade? No trade union rights? No, it's absolutely no upgrade. Because after all - underwriting, you want to shape and form a cheap workforce and this is confirmed by apprenticeship and practice, which are an indirect subsidy to entrepreneurs. Because they substitute the workers and no apprenticeships are doing no practice. They're working carabineers. And tourism is very typical of these examples. Of course, there can be no upgrading of higher vocational education, no workshops, no education workers with stable work and no rights. Or do you think it's an upgrade of the gift you make to knowledge dealers that through IEK their graduates will also have access to universities? On substance, you are sending customers to the private IEKs. From this point of view, the JRC's proposal on education issues is specific and how education should be corrected. We are talking about single public post-training training, which is of course part of another perspective, in another vision of society 'where the fisherman can write poems and the poet to fish', said the old man, that is, Charles Marx. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u168	Thank you. We will now continue with Mr Ioannis Bouga, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Are you gonna need all your time?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u169	I guess, Mr. President. It has been covered, in many cases, by the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u170	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor. Let's start with eighteen minutes. I'll leave you three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I speak about the bill, let me make a few comments and comments on what has been said. Mr. Friends and other parliamentary representatives, Mr. Kegeroglou, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, spoke about telematics. I think you will know that all primary and secondary school pupils today, about a million six hundred thousand, are normally trained with modern equipment to maintain contact with their educational process and courses. No one has claimed, Mr Colleague, that tele-instrumentation replaces the school environment. But you should recognise that the Ministry of Education, the Minister and the Undersecretaries have won a victory. Starting from a zero starting point, in very short time, they managed to offer instruments and equipment so that students today are trained from a distance. Because I'm talking about other countries, I'm going to file the data in the Minutes from Germany. There is, in German, the relevant publication. I'll submit it translated. It is therefore apparent from a recent survey - in November the survey - on the newspaper 'HANDELSBLATT' only 59% of schools at federal level have made use of the money from the additional funding programme for the supply of portable computers. So only 14% of the students so far were finally able to receive a laptop from their school for the event that the courses are done by tele-education. Note that today tens of thousands of schools because of cases are closed in Germany. The most important is the problem of the poor knowledge of teachers. The survey showed that 63% of schools, which were asked, indicate that educational staff do not have the know-how to do teletext. This is what happens in Germany to get a comparison of what is going on elsewhere. What's going on in Greece? In Greece, therefore, the universal and pan-Hellenic project of distance education is certainly credited to part of the Ministry and the Government, largely to their students and parents, but especially to the teachers, whom I did not hear you thank for this effort to maintain contact with the knowledge of our children. Mr Friends in his speech basically proposed that the educational process should be suspended. I have heard, Mr Philly, that you ask for a reduction in working hours, a reduction in material, a abolition of the tests. All of this means, as I have said, a substantial suspension of the educational process. Also, a comment on higher education on what was said about the government's attempt to close regional institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the government does not want to close, but to upgrade regional higher education institutions. Only their upgrade and their conscious selection by the candidates guarantee their operation. The law that you passed, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA in January 2019, led with mathematical accuracy to the closure of regional sections due to their depreciation. A few words about what Mr Kegeroglu said. Mr Kegeroglu referred to an effort by the government to control the press. The government and the Prime Minister give battles every day, give battles, and many earn them. This is what the citizens see and appreciate. Do not underestimate and degrade, ladies and gentlemen, the intelligence of citizens. Citizens are watching, comparing, judging, evaluating. They are not inappropriate beings to be lured from the media and media interventions are far from us. Furthermore, the executive power does not interfere with the legislative process. The parliamentary majority of the New Democracy, while respecting the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, promotes the legislative work proposed by the Government and the Government accepts parliamentary control. So your criticism in this area is unsatisfactory and unfounded. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important bill, the legislation on vocational training, that is to say, the educational process by which the trainee acquires the ability to pursue a profession. If one wants to have a picture of good practice at European and international level, the Minister mentioned them in her speech, where the training system has a strong tradition and has been inextricably and effectively linked to economic development. States which believe and promote vocational training shall develop the so-called binary system or operational training, which shall enable the young person to acquire theoretical technical knowledge at vocational school and practical knowledge and skills in the undertaking paid. If a successful combination of theory and practice is achieved, it can lead to a drastic reduction in youth unemployment. This is true abroad. To us, let us see what SYRIZA's rapporteur has said. First of all, he accused us of bringing this bill, while there is pandemic and schools are closed, saying "to complete subjection of vocational education to the needs of the market and business". And the rapporteur of the Change Movement referred to the Commission to 15-year-old children who are being pushed into an anti-educational choice of the Ministry and asked why they should decide their professional course during a period of their lives that have not yet shaped personality, ambitions and dreams specified. In Greece, in other words, vocational education is a compromise with the needs of capital for some, while our young people, in other words, are not entitled to choose their own path, because they have no ambitions and dreams specified. Ladies and gentlemen, the government decides, after adequate and constructive dialogue with the stakeholders, and introduces to the vote the rhetoric bill we are discussing, with which the misunderstood and neglected - let me say - an institution of vocational education and training is finally dealt with in a comprehensive and coherent way, following the European model. Also - I would like to stress this - this draft law is a product of hard work and we must say, beyond the substance of its regulations, that it is legally impeccable. It is reorganised by its provisions in order to identify for our young people an important new path in their education and life, to produce stable jobs in modern specialities. The paradox of increased demand for technical professions in our country has been mentioned many times, and at the same time the reduced supply, despite the timely high rates of youth unemployment. The key to reversal of the current situation, the solution to this problem, which is a releasing factor of economic development, can become the upgraded structure of middle technical education. The way in which the new system is structured is institutionalised and is based on four main pillars. Change the way in which vocational education is linked to the real needs of the labour market, through the establishment of special councils, involving the social partners at national and local level. Establishment of standard vocational schools, based on general education schools, with students selected on the basis of the High School Dismissal and the Teachers on the basis of their qualifications. Create a new level of education, level 3, between high school and high school, as in force in the European Union, so that high school graduates can acquire specific qualifications tailored to the needs of the market. Substantial upgrading of the IEK and the Centres for Lifelong Learning. IEK will be able to develop partnerships with social partners, market and education actors and offer alternatives. A framework is introduced for the Centres for Lifelong Learning, former CVT, which do not, in their majority, meet the essential requirements of operation. At this point, let me point out the need to continue the operation of the IEKs, especially the region, and to bring my experience from the Fokida Region, proposing, rather by thanking the Minister now for improving the relevant provision. At the public IEK of Amphissa, ladies and gentlemen, there are a total of seventy students in the public IEK of Amphissa, and some twenty teachers in all specialties are in attendance today. It is a body of training which has been continuously and continuously operated since the year of its establishment, that is to say in 1996. It is unique, without an equivalent IEC in another area of the prefecture. The nearest is a hundred miles away. It provides training with the ability to practice in modern areas. Approximately seven hundred graduates of IEK have achieved their immediate absorption from the labour market and, furthermore, the specialities offered today, such as museum guards and archaeological sites or safety officers of persons and infrastructure, are of particular importance to the local economy and local society, thus being absorbed almost directly into different jobs in the region. I am pleased to see, Minister, that in the legislative improvements you have tabled, you added to the exceptions of the hundred students for the suspension of public IKUs and regional units with a population of less than fifty thousand. So while small local communities, students and teachers are asking whether they will close public IEK, you have answered your legal intervention. Public IEKs in these areas will not be closed. Furthermore, provisions of the draft law strengthen the EEAP as a National Quality Certification and Quality Assurance Body in vocational training and lifelong learning, in addition to its re-energisation, after it has been completely decommissioned over SYRIZA. Furthermore, the possibility of the State Grants Foundation to grant scholarships and higher education graduates as prizes of excellence is extended, even though some in the Chamber do not like the word for postgraduate studies, post-education or specialisation. Ladies and gentlemen, as our rapporteur rightly mentioned to the Commission, vocational training has been a key concern of the state since the early years of the newly established Greek state. The government, entirely consistent with one of its central pre-election commitments, radically reforms vocational education and training to play the modern and upgraded role we need. I call on all the wings of this House to vote in favour of this most important bill as a reform bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Bougas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr President, I have the right to denial.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u172	Of course, of course. You've only exhausted your protology. We're fair.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u173	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u174	The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Sophia Zacharakis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u175	Mr President, I would like your tolerance. This is the first time I have been talking to this bill, always respecting it, along with the political leadership, as it has shown in these four days, the self-evident obligation that we have to listen to Members and the Commission, and of course in plenary. Colleagues of the Opposition, the Officerial Response and the government majority have already been placed for the whole bill. But I have two figures to tell you, which are important and which come today to remind us how important it is in the end and how timely this bill is. The average unemployment, youth unemployment in the European Union is 17.6% and 18.1% in the euro area. These are the most recent data compared to last year's figures, in August 2019, when the rate of unemployed in the euro area was 14.6%. So this bill makes an urgent bill, a bill that will come to respond to needs, not only to find work for children who need it or who choose it - because it is a question of choice in the end, and that is what we want to give this bill - but the needs that will be formulated and still have not been evaluated in these urgent conditions that we are experiencing in the post-COVID era. Indeed, Minister, this bill demonstrates deep faith in this area, in vocational education and training, which can and must be done - and that is why I mentioned it - a catalyst for the country to find speed and successfully to recover and relocate to real development. Because it is important to have this debate on social equality and on the issue of opportunities and after the covid period, I would remind you that we liberals, also following philosopher John Roles, are talking precisely about equal opportunities. We are talking about this social development that is taking place through justice in the equality of opportunity given by education. So let us discuss what real equality of opportunity means. I understand that it is not this, but because it is widely used, to see how, in the end, this justice is attributed through education. We pledged ourselves as a government to reform, modernise and improve the quality of the education provided in our country as a whole. Since the first day we have worked hard, methodically, so that each Greek and every Greek can enjoy the education worth the 21st century. It wasn't easy and it's not easy. An integral part of this strategy and a physical continuation of the legislative work is the presentation of a comprehensive plan for vocational education and training, a sector of key importance for the revitalization and strengthening of our national economy. Our faith in this part of education, professional, is sincere, consistent and proven in practice. Today, I will give evidence, because a lot of things have been said about what has been done in vocational education and training in these months that we are in the Ministry. We are talking away from ideological strife and micropolitical pursuits. We are focusing on the needs of students and trainees in modern times. We are making use of the experience of good practice and we are trying to further improve and enlarge them. Priority in all our initiatives is to provide all these necessary supplies for the transition to a modern and ever-changing reality, the activation of all the productive forces of the place, the encouragement of innovation and progress in every area for the benefit of all of us. The aim is to make vocational education and training a conscious choice, as you have already said, Minister. To provide more and better opportunities for all. Because only then can someone really talk about a choice, not about an emergency solution. We are putting order in a landscape that could be said to be 'narrator' in vocational education and training and lifelong learning. The aim is to remove arbitrariness, guarantee greater transparency, matching with the European Qualifications Framework. Clear rules and regulations are introduced. A single national strategy for vocational education and training is introduced. The National System of Vocational Training and Lifelong Learning is established. Education and training are modernised, linked to modern challenges and needs. Appropriate councils are also set up at central and regional level. A great deal of value is active participation in all of the actors involved, who support and feed - and this is the very important element - in policy-making issues. The creation of these councils is of particular value. The necessary space is created in which all the parties directly involved meet and interact, both from the point of view of education, where the members are there and we are here to discuss the subject of connection, as well as the part of the market. For our part, we are committed to monitoring closely - and this is an important element, which may not have worked in the past - the part of supervision and the continuity of policies. So we are here to closely monitor the implementation of procedures, all of which will essentially be the basis for the success and collectiveness and effectiveness of these councils. Opportunities therefore multiply, improve and concern all citizens without any discrimination. Of course, we do not want to stay behind any of the people who have the greatest care and need for care at the moment. Because our country does not have the luxury of not energising and not exploiting the creativity and talent of every citizen. We are talking about the establishment of experimental and thematic IEC. We are talking about PSAI standards, which, because I hear the conversation that is taking place, is not some obsession with excellence or a model. It is our willingness to make multipliers for the rest of the schools of good practice. It is our duty in there to have the necessary training, which we have an obligation on our teachers, so that they themselves become multipliers of good practice in their colleagues. So it's nothing to do with elitism. We don't want elite schools. We want schools which are the example of good in which it can be distributed to the other good schools that are in vocational education. Because I said I'm going to talk to numbers, let's see what's done to vocational education in the PESAL, which is a central point, a central pillar, in this effort all this time. The school year 2020-2021 established seven new vocational schools and, indeed, all in the region. It is in Argalasti, Alexandroupolis, Gortini, Calloni, Grevenna, Kastoria, Naxos. Three new laboratory centres: At Amytino, Larissa, Santorini. New specialities and new sectors: Nine segments of sectors, sixty-five new sections of specialization. We have four hundred six professional high school schools in Greece. Very important! A thousand six hundred and twenty-six sectors, two thousand six hundred thirty three specialties. Here we need to talk again about what will make this education and this education, which is provided through effective and effective means, with the number of specialities and the number of areas that exist. The Minister has already mentioned the few sections that we adopted this year: 98.2%. These are record numbers for the approval of oligoparts. And we did not have to have a social pressure, which was mentioned. We approved it beforehand. We didn't have to have the big reactions we might have had in the past. It had become a very good organization and with the Directorate for Vocational Education and Training, which I thank, so that we do not have secondary reactions to that part of the organisation. The programme "A new beginning in the ESDP, for which a great deal has been said, has not been abandoned. On the contrary, EUR 5 million more budgeted for this year. We have managed to increase the budget by 5 million for the hundreds of eight thousand students in the ESDP. How many people were last year? A hundred thousand. Very significant increase, eight thousand more students. We hope and hope that this will continue. This, of course, has been strengthened and strengthened by the establishment of new professional schools and, of course, by the strengthening of new laboratory centres. Despite the pandemic and, of course, the necessary suspension of lifelong learning, we have already invited the two hundred and twenty psychologists to support the PES students. In fact, the invitation was already issued yesterday for the remaining forty-seven, who had remained vacant as a result of not filling the seats. Aiming, therefore, for ESDP students to be a conscious choice. We're talking about apprenticeship. I would remind you, without wanting here to claim the property of projects - because we believe in national policies, and that is why we have kept good practices, such as the 'A new beginning in the ESDP' - that apprenticeship was an institution at the initiative of the New Democracy Government in 2013, Mr. 4186. Obviously, it continued, it was obviously implemented by the next government. But here, I want to talk about the continuity of policies. Things that have worked can continue, things that have not worked must be made stronger, and that is exactly what the bill does here. I have already referred to the PSC standards. I think - and I repeat - that their function can and must be important from a symbolic but also pedagogical - scientific point of view. I would like to go to two or three points, which are a little off the base of the bill, but I have heard too much in the committee, and I would like to reply to those present, as well as to some who are watching from a distance. If I am not mistaken, the Greek spokesman for the Greek Solution on the issue of books on maritime education was mentioned. There were already these books, the foundation already gave them. Do we facilitate the process and what do we do, in fact? These books will now be given from September. Usually, you know, they were given three to four months away. Why? Because a joint ministerial decision had to be issued. We solve the problem, and that is exactly what this provision comes to do. So we're even more helping students in the EPA's shipping sector to have their books on time than the most approved body, which is, anyway, the Evgenid's Joint Benefit Foundation. On the issue of physical education - I think Mrs Sakova has made a comprehensive report - it is a programme that we support, swimming. It has already achieved a very large increase in children who have participated in the programme. In fact, this year, we have given the opportunity, with our own budget - we have put it in our NSRC - to be able to pay the three hundred substitutes for IP11 for Physical Education. And, yes, with this provision, we are trying to facilitate the most timely recruitment of substitutes, so that this programme can be successful. We want the nineteen thousand children, who went last year and reached twenty thousand in 2019-2020, to increase the time we have, with the good, we can overcome this pandemic evil, which obviously also affects the swimming programme, but also all the rest that we practice and implement. These are the details of the provisions. I do not forget the subject of Greek-language education. You will see that there are very important provisions in the articles. Why? Because we are putting the issue of the Departments of Greek Language in order, which will now all be recognized. We make it easier for our teachers abroad to be able to get paid at the moment with the special allowances, the fine, even if there is a suspension of the Sections. Of course, we also facilitate the further placement of teachers in the Departments of Greek Language, even those which are now not recognized. There are therefore practical moves to support the Greek community. All of this, which I mentioned, which is at the core of vocational education and training, but it is also very substantial provisions for the everyday life of school life everywhere in Greece, but also abroad, in our departments, in practice demonstrates our faith in a Greek education, in the Greek public school, which can release forces, make our students free from any form of hostage so that they can make free choices without their skills and skills being removed, so that they can, after all, live the future without any - as I said - hostage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. We will now go to the Members of Parliament. Mr George Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, technological developments are developing at a glossary rate and create an appropriate scope for the progress and development of our economy and society. But it is also a challenge, as the structure of the education systems of the labour market and the interconnection of these two must be adapted to these new requirements. Throughout Europe, the area of vocational education and training is highly successful and is a spearhead for the new digital and green economy. Greece, however, is, unfortunately, in the last three positions of the Member States of the European Union. In our country to date, vocational education and training have been a solution to the need for most pupils. In fact, lately some students have been trying to take advantage of the fact that they had different pan-Hellenic examinations, in order to approach peak schools such as medicine. That is why we are also coming today as a government to change this regime and to make vocational training a tool for vocational rehabilitation and integration into the labour market. I consider that to be extremely important too. This bill aims to upgrade the education and training provided, initial and ongoing, at the level of structures, processes, curricula and certification. A major innovation in the bill is that now specialities in the School Education and Training Units will be created on the basis of the local labour market of each county or region. And this in consultation with local bodies. Finally, there must be a real link between vocational education and the needs of the labour market and the balance between supply and demand must be found in our country. We need to think about and think, of course, about the future of our children in the light of the new conditions that are being created in global society. As a country, we have a surplus of graduates from universities, postgraduate and doctoral studies, but who either have to leave abroad for work or have to practice in Greece a profession quite different from what they have studied. We don't have young people with knowledge and skills that will help them in their quick professional rehabilitation. Here I should like to point out that we are also innovative with the establishment of standard vocational schools in vocational education this time, after the successful creation and operation of standard schools and schools in general education. The Institutes of Vocational Training are being upgraded and a Professional Guidance Office is being set up to advise students on their professional choices. At the same time, for the first time, public and private IEC can organise foreign language departments for foreigners. Another problem that the education system has had to date was that it has offered all pupils, strong and weak, a general education. This is now changing, ladies and gentlemen, since with so-called level 3 vocational training schools are being created, which will be between high school and high school, they will have two-year courses and special courses. In this way, we help students to strengthen their gradients, discover their skills and talents in order to gain additional qualifications, which are necessary for them to respond directly to the needs of the labour market. Here, too, I should like to present my personal experience as Mayor of Mousakio in the past, where a key problem we have faced was the incompleteness and unresponsiveness of the new technologies and equipment of the ESDP laboratories. With this draft law, therefore, the necessary funds are provided to upgrade the equipment and workshops of the ESDP, thus satisfying a consistent request from their students and teachers. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We are also giving a solution to a big problem, which is particularly agitating the mountain and island volumes with the non-retirement of assistant teachers in their positions, by issuing the director of the school in question a local call for expressions of interest for the recruitment of a full-time teacher for a year. Thus, we will avoid the problem created by the non-retirement of deputies, who have for a long time left students without education. This is because for us, for the New Democracy, for our Government, every student, wherever he lives, has the right to education. At this point, I should like to stress that there is no guarantee of money and funds only for the equipment of the ESDP, but there is an increase in the education ministry's budget for 2021. Because we, ladies and gentlemen, support the public school with ten thousand five hundred permanent appointments in General Primary and Secondary Education, which come to be added to the already four and a half thousand young teachers, we increase funding for the HEI, we increase the income support for families with children who are studying away from their permanent residence by 3 million euros, and, finally, we increase the budget of the Public Investment Programme for 2021 by 200 million euros compared with 2020. We support the digital skills project, which we started with the teleconferencing conference, with EUR 112 million in five hundred and sixty thousand young people, thus responding directly to today's training requirements. Because for us, participation in digital transformation must be about - every news and every news. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is an overall approach, as for the first time there is a design at the level of structures, processes, curricula and certification. The students, in their efforts to plan their future and their professional careers, need from us the best possible organisation of our education systems and their development, so that we can finally make the ground available for their training and professional rehabilitation. We as a New Democracy, as a government, have the political will required in the new era of things, institutions and values that we experience. For us, education is the future of this country and we invest in it. Madam Minister, congratulations! We support your bill and vote for it. Thank you very much. Happy holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u178	Also, Mr. Comrade. Mr Amanatidis now has the floor from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would like to close with a number of issues, which are from the outset. Please for your tolerance, because I am also an educational teacher, but I also had some responsibility for some of the issues that the bill has. I want to speak first of all to close the issue of the Hellenic German Youth Foundation. Look, in order to be serious, as I said in my position in committee, which we discussed in the draft law, we should know that distortion and hypocrisy cannot hide reality. The reality is that there is no conspiracy. The law in September 2018 on whether or not this institution should have existed was passed by all parties, as mentioned, except for the JRC that voted for "residences" and the Golden Dawn. Therefore, the convention, which had its objectives, was adopted at that time. However, because there have been comments on SYRIZA alone - unless Mr Kegoroglou considers that the Change Movement is not the continuation of the Democratic Consensus - which, in order to be accepted, a letter from the Minister of Education was made at that time in his counterpart in the Federal Republic of Germany and with all the comments accepted, they were included in the ratification of the agreement, which is coming and which was initialled in the presence of the two Presidents of the Republic, the Greek and German, on October 11 by the Secretary-General of New Genea. It is not someone who 'we don't know who didn't sign'. They'll let them go, because they know them. It wasn't the government, either. The legislative procedures, however, which had to exist because of the changes on the German side - on the part of Greece, had ended on 11 October - went the whole procedure back and around May had to be signed. Delays due to elections, local and regional, took the date of July 4th. No relation to elections, no rush. There was barely a delay. That's what I'm closing the deal with. The rest has been said by our parliamentary representative. Mr President, our Government had set itself the objective of continuous improvement in public education and training. What did we do first of all? We restored the two and a half thousand teachers who were suspended from the PES and whom the Memorandum Government had prosecuted. We refunctioned the sectors and specialities that had been abolished. We took all those measures that were needed to upgrade them. Indicatively, SYRIZA’s PSA with Law No.4376/2016 had thirty-five specialties in relation to the 2006 Act, which gave eighteen specialties to PSA and 2013, which provided twenty-two. We put the institution "A New Authority in PAF", which was first implemented in the school year 2017-2018. We put the institution of the metaly year in the classes of apprenticeship. Instead of investing in them, the Government effectively reaped the project "A New Authority in the ESDP", it downgraded the institution of apprenticeship, with reductions in positions and reductions in apprentices, increased bureaucracy, etc., canceled all annual events for the projection of ESDPs. It still presents a failure today to carry out examinations of PSA graduates, carried out by the EEAP in 2018 and 2019 in February, but not February 2020. It was only on December 3rd that they were going for February 2021. It has reduced the educational perspective of the ESDP graduates by abolishing international programmes. It delays the preparation of new curricula. There is no public information about developments in relation to the stage in international competitions. Why is New Democracy doing this? Mr President, I believe that the New Democracy is doing this on the basis of planning and planning. What design? The final objective for vocational education is to provide the fullest possible access to vocational training at local level. Can anyone explain why only the needs of the economy at local level are those which define the professional orientation of young people? Aren't there technological developments? Are there no scientific developments? And finally, is there not the country's overall, productive, development planning? The Minister spoke of a choice the children have. Let's take a look at the choice they give the kids. To PSAI standards, which it is currently legislating, how do students get in? Do they get a choice or a score? The Minister said so. They will go through high school scores and are essentially excluded from areas and specialties of their choice. In other words, the choice of guidance here is a result of grades and not of choices. So here's how he means the choices. At the same time, other discrimination will promote the distinction of sectors and specialties and final professions in good and second terms depending on whether they exist in ESDP standards. What do we say, like we talked about high school? Experimental and excellent professional high school all with their upgrades. Mr President, I have heard a few things that need to be debated very briefly, but I shall say them very briefly. I heard the stereotypes "but aren't all the children for universities", "are they mature at sixteen to vote, but not to work?" Especially my second argument reminded me, forty years ago, when they wanted to justify social inequality, there were some theorists who said this simple: But all our fingers are not equal, so why in society should we all be equal? I think they don't need any further comment. However, overall I must say that we do have a different strategy and a vision. Our vision is a single high school of theory and action. The 12-year-old, said by Mr. Philis, is compulsory and public education free of charge for all students, adding both years of kindergarten, therefore, the fourteen-year-old public, free education. Where do we have a different strategy and vision? There are two approaches, Mr President, economics, I would say the economic and human-centered approach. One road focuses on man and through him we look forward to improving society and the economy. The other directly focuses on improving the competitiveness of the economy, which vocational education should support. What are the overall differences? I borrow them, Mr President, and I very much rely on the thoughts of a very good and former school advisor, Mr Context. For the approach of students, according to what you put on, the progress of each student and behaviour are the individual case of the student. School after compulsory education cannot change the educational course of students or their character. In practice, school resigns or minimises the effort to limit the impact of the social inequalities of education. According to our view, the causes of each student's performance and attitude are mainly social. Each level of education is responsible for limiting the effects of social inequalities. Because we talked about equality in this Chamber too, what equality can there be for students who do not have power in their homes? What equality can there be for students who do not have electronic equipment and who will be taken, if they take him, into no one two - three months ending the second year? What equality can students whose parents do not go to work or are suspended or who do not know whether they are sick or not? What equality are we talking about? What policies have been implemented to stop this inequality in special populations, who are currently in existence and are essentially excluded from education? In connection with the labour market, the approach you have taken is that the market knows what the needs for human resources are, so training must adapt to these needs, because pupils in this labour market will be invited to work. According to our approach, anthropcentric work is not only a market with supply and demand, but also includes working conditions, rights, obligations, organization. The market is perhaps aware of short-term needs. The school must prepare for future workers and citizens so that they can respond to changes for the whole of their lives in a way compatible with the national and regional development strategy. I could say a lot, but time is forcing me to stop and close with two - three things, Mr President, which I consider to be important. I spoke to the committee about the Minister, and I said that I have a reservation as to whether he would give us answers. For months we have been asking the Minister and deliberately deafing to avoid giving answers. Firstly, will it give us the 'CISCO' contract? Secondly, what will he do for the number of students per department that has, in the midst of a pandemic, increased him? Why doesn't he give a directive to the addresses along with the municipalities to find suitable places where they exist and break the departments? What will it do with the tracking of teachers in relation to COVID? Why is it deaf in the anti-democratic phenomenon completely and what MPs from the political spectrum can justify that there is a heresy with a electorate that voted 7%?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u180	Finish, Mr. Amanatidis. These are parliamentary control. Another time. Finish it. You're in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u181	Not a minute, Mr. President. I mean, there's a merciless period in the Ministry of Education. Why am I saying that? I said about two world originals: the number of students per department and the service councils. Nowadays, a third world educational original is added: How do you change a school year's study system for June? Transitional period? How do you surprise students, parents, teachers, everyone? This has never been done with any government, Mr President. Transitional provision, transitional time always existed. In these words, I thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u182	We're continuing with Mr. Themistoklis Himara. Mr. Himara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, unlike other European countries, in Greece only one young person in three ending compulsory education chooses to continue his education in vocational training. We wondered, however, why this pathogen is due? Is it in the mentality and mentality of the Greek family? Did you underestimate the craftsman's profession? In pursuit of each household for the participation of its children in higher education? In the specificities of the Greek economic structure, which has gradually depreciated industry, crafts and productive activities? Perhaps the rapid change and unilateral emphasis on the provision of services? Is it not the State's lack of time, possibly the business community, of planning and implementing smart policies and effective vocational education and training standards? Ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly not one reason, and of course it is not the only answer. They are all the reasons together that contribute, more or less to the depreciation of vocational education in our country. We all agree that this policy must be redesigned and that is precisely the redesign it serves today's bill. The main aim of the reform is vocational education and training to become a conscious choice for many. The tool of this development policy will give our young and new quality jobs. I would like to dwell on three key points in our current legislation: Firstly, we are making a direct link between vocational education, lifelong learning and training with the labour market. How? With a substantial, rather than a pragmatic, involvement of the social partners in its planning. The Central Board of Vocational Education and Training, as well as the Association Council with the production and labour market in each region of the country, participates societal, research, innovation and, of course, the market and the business community. Let me convey my experience from my previous capacity when I was serving regional self-government. In 2015, in the area of Central Greece, we were looking for partners to prepare the research and development strategy. Research and Innovation Strategy 3. This is a process that focuses on business discovery, the search for the sectors of the local and regional economy that present the strong growth potential in which the implementation of research by the educational community will make it possible to become a policy area and, of course, European funding. By involving the social actors, the educational community of our country and the business community, we have managed to identify the real competitive advantages of our region, to which we must invest, in order to strengthen entrepreneurship and, of course, the local and regional economy. This comes to make this bill at national and regional level with a specific rated structure and multiple options in the educational course to be chosen by the student and the student. Central Greece, for example, needs modern trained farmers and farmers who will take advantage of every opportunity and every euro from the New Common Agricultural Policy. We need qualified personnel for the use of healing water, which could be translated into new Departments of Physical Rehabilitation and Aesthetics in public IEC. We need new certified natural gas technicians, since in Central Greece right now that we are talking about network expansion competitions are running and the biggest cities in the region will be connected in the coming years. We also need well-trained staff in the field of the extroversion of agricultural products that could serve our agricultural cooperatives to finally reach local products on the shelves of international markets. So should the relevant training courses not function in our region? Second important intervention. For the first time, professional high school standards are being established. Since October 2019, with my question to the Minister of Education, I have also proposed the establishment of a model of professional high school in a rural direction in Fthiotida, which is a rural area, a structure that will provide tomorrow's new farmer with all knowledge of new technologies and best production methods, especially in the field of intelligent systems. To be able to connect directly to the academic community and to become research and innovation lungs in the primary sector, but this would not lead to a deadlock at work, because they would be fully linked to the productive process of production, which would also ensure immediate professional rehabilitation. We are establishing three major innovations in the functioning of the IEKs, which concern the establishment of public experimental and thematic IEKs, the possibility for public and private IEKs to organise foreign-language sections, in order to attract people from all over the world, to upgrade and broaden the practical exercise of the trainees while being able to participate in corresponding programmes in the European Union. Judging again by my personal experience and cooperation as a small businessman with the public IEK of my region, Lamia, I can confirm the excellent offer of the practical exercise. The small business I have in Lamia is exploiting new technologies across the range of its business. Based on this, we have developed close cooperation in the areas of digital technologies. What are the benefits of cooperation? My business has the possibility of giving skilled human resources, training it in the field and investing in future cooperation, since many of the children who have done their practice in my company have remained for years after they end as workers and some people are working today. On the other hand, the trainee has the opportunity to put into practice what has been taught and to find a job that will open up the prospects for a better tomorrow. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the model of linking education to the labour market in a city in the Greek region. It is the model that we all wish the Ministry of Education, in response to the need, is doing today. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going through a strangely difficult period which has affected and dramatically affected every aspect of social life. Our hospital workers are our modern heroes, but also in education where teachers in each industry are over-represented in order not to lose the school year. But the crisis has a start, a mid and a half. That's why we have to take care of the next day in good time. As a representative of the people of Photida, as a freelance professional, but above all as a father of two young children, I congratulate the Ministry of Education's political leadership on the legislative initiative. With a view to the future, therefore, I invite you to vote in favour of this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Himara. Mr. Baraliaco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary, and Mr Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution of this bill comes to overthrow a deep and timeless injustice to the detriment of vocational education and technical training. It is the starting point for the collective subconsciousness of Greek society to eradicate a distorted concept, which has been consolidated over the past decades, that technical education and the technical professions are lower and relate to second-class students. The Greeks were privileged to be considered exquisite craftsmen with storage knowledge and experience of generations in professions that made us seekers worldwide. It is no accident, after all, that there are many Greeks who emigrated to Western Europe and to America and had workers in positions which required details of manipulation and technical skill. However, over the last few decades, due to a number of factors, this deposit has been forgotten and neglected by a bid, which has been generalized in a populist approach to education in obsolete degrees. Educational populism has led to academic degrees, which have remained a blank letter and unwritten paper on the labour market, without any real impact on jobs. At the same time, technical professions, which are crucial to the structure of economic activity, began to show serious deficiencies and infrequently infrequently. Greek craftsmen, who were inappropriate in the internal market, began to be restored to this work by foreigners. So while the challenge of technical education was to upgrade it, to monitor new methods and to engage with technological development, we chose its decline and decline, vigorously preventing even young children with an appetite and a chance to develop a technical profession. With the provisions of this draft law, we are reintroducing vocational education and technical training as an equal pillar in our educational system. We make the way for vocational education an attractive choice and a reliable solution for all those children who today do not find the institutional framework to channel their talent and natural momentum. We introduce an important innovation by establishing an alternative level of study after high school and before high school, level 3. Graduate graduates will be able to acquire specific professional qualifications tailored to the needs of the market in specific technical professions such as aluminium artisans or marble craftsmen with two years of study and special courses. The added value of this reform, however, lies in the fact that we do not leave out the students who will choose this level of education. We give them an extra incentive, we provide them with a perspective for their business future. We are doing the interconnection of technical education with the labour market. The setting up of councils, which will be made up of all the relevant institutional bodies identifying the specific needs of the labour market and at national and local level, will determine which courses will be taught in the structures of vocational training. For example, in my home country of Pieria there is a need for schools both for specific sectors of primary and manufacturing and for professions in the tourism sector. In this way, we will be able to reduce unemployment, particularly in prefectures which are more pronounced in this phenomenon, with targeted interventions and a record of this labour market, while balance the curve between supply and demand in specific professions, which are necessary but also well paid. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is a definitive approach to technical training and vocational training. It offers a firm alternative, suggesting a change of attitude mainly, promoting a re-orientation of young children with the technical profession, not confined to fragmentary arrangements that result at the expense of pupils and generations, do not harm their ambition to choose a different path on the subject they love and restore harmonious cooperation of general and technical educational levels. At this point, I would like to congratulate the Minister's initiative to strengthen learning in the context of the physical education course, a programme that highlights the importance of swimming for children's own lives and a training that increases its value if we consider that in our country drowning is the second most frequent cause of death after the roads, while according to the World Health Organisation we are in the sixth place in the European Union and in the thirteenth world in deaths this way. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the new era that rises does not lead to the dismantling of technical professions, but is the precedent for their qualitative upgrading. It's a wagon on the fourth industrial revolution train. We must give the new generation the guarantees that he will be ready to board this train. Our reform vision in education fits everyone and makes no exceptions and discrimination to anyone. Thank you very much. Merry Christmas and a good year to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u186	Also, Mr. Comrade. ........................................ Thank you for shortening time too. The honourable Member has the floor from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Mrs Kallipe Vetta. [[It doesn't sound because of a bad connection]] I don't see Mrs. Vetta, I can't hear her. We'll move on to Mrs. Constantina Adamou from Mera25. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my position in a few words on Article 147 of the bill on ratification of the Agreement between Greece and Germany on the Greek-German Youth Foundation. According to this agreement, although it appears that the establishment and functioning of the Hellenic German Youth Foundation is dictated by the European ideal, if we look carefully at the actions that this has already taken, it is easy to observe that this is not the case. In reality, that is, the political and ideological patterns that this initiative stimulates, little promote the approach of the two peoples through culture and culture. On the contrary, there are several issues at the Foundation's centre, such as the experiences of Greek youths who worked or worked in Germany, German occupation, the presence of refugees in Greece and so on. We should therefore be very careful, because through these actions modern history may be falsified, particularly that concerning the Second World War and German occupation. And if you take this lightly, go and tell the inhabitants of Kalavryta, Chortiatis, Kerdylia, Cantanos and other martyrdom cities and villages of Greece. It should be clear that under no circumstances can the perpetrator and victim be equated, because this seems to have tried to do the Hellenic German Youth Foundation through phrases that he has used in his actions. It is clear that the aim of the Foundation is to promote the agenda of the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with what this may mean for our national foreign policy and diplomacy. We therefore need excellent attention with the ratification of the agreement, which should in any case be signed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and that is why it is our conviction that there should be a debate on this matter again alone. In the meantime, the German side has to recognise in a clear and official manner all its debts to Greece, resulting from the length of occupation in our country. Let us not forget that good accounts make good friends. Furthermore, it is clear that this agreement should not in any way be an answer to the historical responsibility that Germany bears for the borrowing and disappearing of important archaeological findings from Greece during the dark occupation period. Of course, people's fraternity and intercultural cooperation and exchanges are indiscriminate parts of my worthy system, but in this case I will have to refuse you with the risk of ratification of this agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, when a government legislates it must take into account the current social and economic circumstances. In the midst of a period when teachers throughout the country are fighting to provide education for students of all levels because of the malfunctioning education system and the time that they still have students who are trying to learn from one and many times smartphone, the family, we are invited to decide on reforms of the educational system without attempts to correct the bad laws of the Ministry of Education. I ask: How are equal opportunities guaranteed in education when there is no possibility of new equipment being purchased in certain households in order to monitor telematics in an uninterrupted manner? What action is the Ministry taking on this matter? At the same time, the Ministry of Education has not yet assured to any extent the teachers and students that their personal data are safe, as the contract with the service provider remains tightly sealed in the Minister's drawers without knowing what has actually been signed. Ladies and gentlemen, with this year's anachronistic interventions in public and private education, the intentions for strategic degradation of public schools have been evident. According to the budget figures adopted yesterday, particular consideration has been given to a declared cut in expenditure in education. The bill we are considering promotes the outdated model of vocational training for minors in postnatal grades, aimed at undergoing underage work. The benefits of young people from early vocational training are minimal, as the assurances from these schools are now to be made at level 3 of the national qualification framework, but causing the thousands of graduates from the OAED vocational apprenticeship schools who have so far ranked at level 4 following examinations. In addition to the minimum wages, however, which will be offered in exchange for the long-term practical work of minors, vocational schools in practice do not include any general knowledge-based subject matter or offer significant technological deepening or pedagogical work. It is extremely disappointing that the Ministry for Early Training, without first the students receive a full education through learning our history, our language, biology and other courses that will certainly be useful to them in various manifestations of their lives. It is absolutely certain that the percentages of illiteracy in our society will rise dramatically over the next few decades. It is therefore clear that post-mutaging training creates a class division between young people, since the majority of pupils will be driven by need at these schools, and they will be trapped in a system of sterile practical training without receiving valuable cognitive, educational or pedagogical supplies which could benefit them from a multifaceted approach in their later life. In addition, as much as we have stressed, you have decided not to cover with an article the source of funding that minor children will receive, the amount of this remuneration and the precise working conditions. This is how all the risks of the labour exploitation of minors exist. It therefore makes it quite clear that the basic aim of these schools is minimum paid minor work, dressed in an educational cloak. Therefore, the directors of these schools are not expected to have some pedagogical competence, which makes me concerned about the quality of the training provided to minors and the overall excellence of the work of these schools. In addition, curriculum programmes will no longer be defined by scientific staff, but by market players, resulting in a blind market connection with education, and thus training ceases to be self-evident and is converted to value-added. As far as professional high school standards are concerned, the PPAALs are now more clearly beginning to implement a more general strategic planning of the government to establish a sterile and anachronistic learning model of absolute discipline and deep complex excellence, in contrast to experimental high school schools, which surely help students to develop their social skills, creativity and imagination. At the same time, the Ministry is basically moving towards the abolition of many public IEK, as the fewer than two hundred students in Athens and Thessaloniki or fewer than a hundred students in the region will be closed immediately. Only the border regions and not the remote areas within the prefecture or island regions are excluded, although in the committee I stressed this omission of the Ministry and asked for the proposal to be included, because there are IEKs in remote areas within the central counties and serve several regional students who do not have any other outlets. Such an example is the IEK Koufalion of Thessaloniki, which serves students and neighboring counties, but after the vote of this bill it will be closed. Significant sustainability issues are therefore to be raised for both existing staff and students who will be forced to take up private IEK, in which case their parents will be charged additional costs or who will be forced to work in parallel with their own studies. In addition, this draft law allows graduates of IEKs to enter higher education, i.e. at the universities of our country, following a ranking examination. This has the effect of equilibriuming the levels of education and training and creating even greater disparities, mainly at the expense of the pupils of general high school, who are so much toiling with the pan-Hellenic exams and are going to labor even more from now on with the implementation of the new legislation on this subject. Of course, this provision favours to a large extent the owners of large...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u188	Finish it. You've exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u189	I'll be done in a minute. ...which will turn their structures into informal care centres and thus speculate by selling hope to thousands of young people and young people for their entry into higher education. Finally, there is no special provision to enable people with disabilities, whether they are trainers or trainees, to participate in vocational training. In addition, the National Confederacy of Disabled Persons also drew up a complaint. It is necessary that the state finally tackles the permanent issues of accessibility and integration of the NEAs into its structures, and this should also be a self-evident objective in a civilised country with education. In conclusion, I would like to stress that this bill poses the risk of the development of illiteracy and our country, which has already been observed by German teachers for their own educational system, whose educational model is now trying to integrate with this bill the Ministry of Education and which is clearly classic. In conclusion, with this draft law...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u190	No, look, you said 'closing', then you said 'finding' and now 'in conclusion'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u191	... for the degradation of each grade of public education.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u192	You don't have any more time. You're in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much for your attention. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u194	I was drawn to it because I heard 'close', then 'end' and now 'to conclude'.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u195	They would normally speak much more Members, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u196	Mrs. Adamou, with a proposal close, because I don't like to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u197	I shall close, Mr President, as soon as possible. This draft law establishes the government's consistent target for degrading each tier of public education. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u198	We're continuing with Mrs. Vetta. Can you hear us? Do you see us?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u199	And I can hear you, Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u200	Please have the floor and try to approach the seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u201	There was a problem with the Internet...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, I'm sorry to interrupt you. If you want, tell us who's next, so we know, 'cause we're from 9:00 in the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u203	It's okay. In the House we are always from nine and may be over at midnight.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u204	I know, Mr. President. We need to know who's next.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u205	The Deputy Minister will then take the floor, Mr. Digalakis, and you will then speak, Mr. Calliano, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, and then the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 and continue with another five, six speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on vocational education and training, I would like to make a reference to the health aspects of my region, the Kosani Regional Unit. After two months of intensive lockdown, as the restrictive measures were applied to us before any other region, that is, already on 16 October, we find that there is no progress in reducing cases. On the contrary, we are moving into the logic of stricter interventions. It is also clear here that huge mistakes have been made by the government in managing and controlling the pandemic, as it is impossible, in accordance with the epidemiological rules, to present such a picture after two months of restrictive measures. I call on the Government finally to take a serious look at the Kozani Regional Unit to protect the health of the population and the economy of the region, which is being raised both by the respondents in Lockdown and by the violent degree. The truth is that I am not very optimistic, as at the same time as we have this setting, the government with the Minister of Finance, in reply to my questions about the need for exceptional aid measures, claims that nothing more than the generally applicable ones and that it will be dealt with if appropriate. The conclusions belong to the society of the Regional Unity of Kozani. To come to today's subject, I will say first of all that it is a bill which has been discussed at the same time as the budget in time of pandemic, and there is no need for such a study. On substance, this is a bill which delivers vocational education and training on the market, without any concern for the educational community and the substantial upgrading of public education. It should be noted that, contrary to what you have said, no broad social acceptance arises anywhere. Even the few bodies invited to this House - with the exception of BSE and partly SETE - said they were not in line with the form and content of the bill. To understand the spirit of the bill, particular reference must be made to the following articles: Article 3: You are enacting early-training schools, where you plan apprenticeships - work for minors, ignoring that under national law, but also under the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, work, even the covered, is prohibited until eighteen. Articles 9 to 13 provide for the degradation of the OAS of apprenticeships, which operate after 1st high school, since their degrees are degraded, even retrospectively, as they will no longer receive a qualification at level 4, other level 3. With Article 23 you remove the IEKs that have two hundred students in Athens and Thessaloniki, and a hundred throughout Greece, with a risk of closing 40% of the public IEKs throughout the country. Article 50 establishes the certification of qualifications by private operators instead of the competent public body ENPI. Finally, Article 123 provides for the replacement of elected members of the service councils in the event of failure to accept their appointment or resignation by school directors or teachers. You insist, Minister, stubbornly and selfishly on a decision which has been deplored by 93% of teachers. The Prime Minister himself said in an unprecedented statement: "We had" says "more limited participation. What can we do? They participated, they elected." No self-criticism, no misinterpretation of this detained development that erroneouss democratic rights for decades. Arrogant, unfortunately, and merciless everywhere! Basically with this bill you are completely ignoring the findings of the National Strategic Framework for the Upgrade of Vocational Education and Training, which was drawn up in 2016, and important reforms made thanks to the Government of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has shown that she is not interested in public education at all. What should we want to do first? The increase in the level of pupils per section from twenty-two to twenty-five in the pandemic? The mask fiasco and the lack of protection for students and teachers? The private education bill that liberated the redundancies and the elasticisation of labour relations? The removal of thirty-seven university departments launched by SYRIZA, six of which concerned western Macedonia? The deterioration in Parliament by its indifference to submit contracts for telecommunications, even when a significant proportion of the school population does not have access to it? The obsession with teleworking in very difficult conditions for students? Let me add one last thing. The day before yesterday, in the Morphics Committee, I put to you a call for a loss of power for a sum of EUR 493 to a single-parent family, with two children in high school. Let us not go back to the fact that the government has refused to vote in favour of the SYRIZA amendment to protect against power cuts and telephone connections and the reconnection of those accounts. Let us see what has been said in committee. The President's answer to you, Minister, as he has already done in such cases, by dismissing his institutional and supervisory role, was - I read from the Minutes - this is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Education. PPC is another company. I don't even know who the provider is. He continued to say that there are funds from the European Union for such cases, of course closing the debate quickly. You, Minister, have not said anything about this. I would like to ask you this again: How did you ensure that all students have access to telecommunications? Are you inappropriate for access to the telecommunications system, as the President of the Commission has said? Please let us know, even now, why anyone who wants to help can find ways. We have asked you on several occasions whether, this time at the beginning of schools, you will have taken some protection measures. You didn't answer us. Other countries are already preparing. For example, I should like to tell you that a EUR 5.5 million budget line has been approved for additional training for pupils in Italy to cover the gaps that the young people and young people of the country reasonably have. This is where we're still waiting for the January 7th. Seeing and doing it everywhere. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has shown her indifference to public education, considering analgesia as a reform profile, private interest in legislative intervention and neoliberal political vehicle for the country's regeneration. Soon it will realize that the reluctance of society will turn into disapproval and disapproval into anger. We only hope it is not too late for the country's democratic and social achievements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u208	Minister, Mr. Digalakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into the details of the draft law. This has been done by the Minister, the rapporteurs and throughout the debate that has taken place. I will focus only on some issues relating to higher education. As has been said in Greece, the proportion of high school graduates entering higher education is 80%. This is twice as much as international practice as is happening in the rest of Europe. The student population in our country in 2017 was about 7% of the country's total population, when in Europe twenty-eight, the corresponding figure is less than 4%. We have seen this again this year and in recent years in the development of university import bases. In 2016-2017 25% of the sections had an import base of less than 10 thousand molecules, last year in 2019-2020 this figure was 33%, that is, one out of three had an import base of less than 10 thousand and this year it was 40%, based on an import base of less than 10 thousand molecules. There are many examples, such as in engineering schools, where the import base is up to a thousand five hundred moles. One wonders how a child who enters a school of engineers with increased demands will be able to finish this school. This is also apparent in statistics. Our country is last in the graduates' percentage, compared with all students. Assuming that an average time duration of one project is, for example, four years, one would expect that if their studies are carried out normally, one out of four will end every year. In fact, in the rest of Europe this is happening. The graduation rate is 24% -25% in all students. In our country there's one in ten. It was 9.5% in 2017. What does that mean? That students enter the university and either because they don't care about a school or because they didn't have the skills they need to meet the conditions that they set the school level, they just lake and never finish. In 2015, 55% of students were in the 11th or more six months of study, the full course of which was completed in eight semesters. Another course, alternatively, is that those who manage the school will end and what will be done are that they will find jobs in something that they do not respond to what they have studied. Overtrained employment: In Greece, young people who have completed higher education are employed in jobs that are not proportional to the qualifications and objects they have studied at 43%. In the rest of Europe these rates, particularly in the western and northern countries, are even below 20%, for example in Germany they are 19% and 17% in the Netherlands. We have unfortunately, as a country, cultivated the wrong belief in our families and young people that the only way to their professional rehabilitation is to pursue university education. This has increased very much in recent years, especially in the years of SYRIZA governance, where technological tertiary education has been completely abolished and all departments have become university. This is something that has further intensified this picture in society and the conviction that in order for one of our young people to be professionally restored, they should enter a university department, thinking not about the interest of the young person, but about how to satisfy the interests of some who have spoken about the creation of departments. A typical example is at the Ionian University, a department with excellent prospects for professional rehabilitation, the Department of Audio Technology and Musical Institutions, closed and the Department of Ethnosycology was established in its place. This is also apparent in the figures. In 2017 alone 28.8% of the students of Higher Education chose Home Professional Education, with the European average being 48%. The employment rate of graduates of initial vocational education and training, in the ages of twenty to thirty-five years in Greece, was 63%, and in Europe of twenty-eight, respectively, it was over 80%. The causes of the problem are therefore: the lack of strategic planning in the formation of the university charter, so that we have curricula that meets the demands of the labour market and developments in the economy and the fourth industrial revolution. We healed this in the January bill, by upgrading the National Higher Education Authority and entrusting it with the role of proposing strategic planning. Of course, it is due to the absence of reliable structures of technical vocational education, as there are many advanced countries. This bill comes to upgrade technical vocational education, to offer reliable alternatives to our young people, according to their gradients and skills. We must promote the interest of our young people by offering them studies with good employment prospects rather than stacking them in university departments where they will never graduate or end and will be engaged in something that does not respond to their studies. Of course, the effects will be significant and positive in higher education too. The demand for university studies will be reduced once there is an alternative. Our universities in this way will be invited to train a number of students, who will be in line with their infrastructure and with their staff, and this will also lead to the improvement of the quality of university education. Finally, I will come to two specific issues, concerning two provisions of the draft law on higher education, beginning with Article 132 of the draft law. When we took over the Ministry's political leadership, we inherited many and chronological problems, to which we are giving solutions. We have recently regulated the issue of the contribution of members of the IPAs engaged in business that has been pending for some twenty years, and we have solved it in a fair way, so that our universities can have the resources they should collect from teachers, who are engaged in business. This provision solves another such time-consuming problem. In 2001-2002 funding was granted in the form of loans to Higher Education Institutions, universities and TEIs, as a bridge between two operational European programmes. Education and initial vocational training, EIAEC 1 and then EIAEC 2. This matter had been forgotten for many years. The previous political leadership has done nothing about the substance for four and a half years, and there has been the problem. It did not create this, it also inherited it, but for four and a half years it put it on the side and just before the elections, and eighteen years later a ministerial decision was made, which asked the universities to return after eighteen years the loan section, which had not been settled. This, of course, created turmoil in universities and in current economic conditions was indeed a bomb for the proper functioning of universities. What did we do? We give our universities the opportunity instead of returning the amount, to use a piece, an important part of it, 70%, by implementing actions relating to their development, research and educational skills. We are turning the problem into an additional grant to universities and giving them the opportunity to return the remaining 30% to five instalments starting next year. A second provision concerning higher education is Article 133 of the bill. Following a recommendation from the Board of Directors of the State Scholarships Foundation, because we really believe and encourage excellence, we constantly prove it after its introduction we are establishing prizes of excellence for graduates of higher education. It will be implemented this year for the first time and prizes of Excellence amounting to EUR 1,000 are awarded for all sections of higher education at this graduate with a higher score, who completed his studies at the planned study period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u210	And we thank the Minister, in fact in time. Mr. Callianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, if, as far as 15 speakers so far, we had a hundred speakers, we would end at my festivities about Io Yanniou, as the process is today. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is also a bill implementing our election announcements on education, which, as I recall, has been publicly quoted since November 2018. We were judged for them by the Greek people in July 2019, given his consent and have since applied them consistently in our words with our works, of course. There is a harmonisation between those things we have been talking about in the past and what we are doing now. I am referring to the opposition and especially to the Civic Opposition, which is trying so long to prove that our moves have nothing to do with what we have been talking about in the past. The upgrading of vocational training was the central axis of our education announcements. Also, completely indicative of the measures we have presented was the creation of standard professional high school. So I ask: is it considered so unprecedented that a government has been found to do what it announces? Is it so unprecedented to have a government which has political honesty and credibility? Wasn't it known from our programme what is currently being legislated? Since the first time we took over the country's governance, so many bills that have been passed have not already been known from our election commitments? Should we be accountable, because the Greek people accepted our proposals, trusted us to move forward with courage in their implementation, and that is what we are doing? A judge, then, is the Greek people, ladies and gentlemen, who has given us a very clear and clear mandate to move forward. Our rapporteur, Mr Fotilles, at the first meeting of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, said that this bill is moving along the lines of our pre-election commitments on reforms. So it is clear from the above that he is right and I would like to stress the following: Firstly, we are implementing what we have announced, what politically courageous, honesty and before the elections, of course, not then, we have told the Greek people and have accepted their approval in a decisive way, having been given a mandate for self-government. Some things need to be made clear so that all of us who are at the moment and who are attending this particular meeting can be informed. So we are implementing them by consensus and parliamentary dialogue, with time and not in accordance with the bad tactics of the urgency of many previous governments. I would remind you that this draft law, in addition to the social dialogue that was developed before it was tabled, was discussed at four meetings, as the Minister said at the first meeting, but also today, Mrs Keramea said, on this subject. So let me be allowed to comment. It has not been discussed as urgent or urgent, as many SYRIZA colleagues have said, but it has normally taken the time necessary to get to the point where we are discussing this bill in plenary today. We implement it in good time. At the beginning of our government term we do this, and not two, three months before the end of the term, as other governments did for their educational interventions. I am talking about Law 4610/2019, which was passed on the Great Week at the end of April - if you remember - ladies and gentlemen, with the port elections. With regard to the timeliness of our education programme, I really want to congratulate the Ministry's political leadership for its endless efforts and excellent work. Anyone who sees the account of the first year of the events of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs finds out the many positive changes currently taking place in our lives and education. Among them are the new innovative themes in school programs, new curricula, new books, the actual real guarantee of university asylum - important things that no one had ever dared to touch - the upgrading of the institution of models and experimental schools, but also many other things and issues. However, I would like to stress the positive aspects of the first year and the fact that the pan-Hellenics in the middle of a frame of law have been very successful, with zero problems, and this is registered in the Ministry's co-political leadership. I am pleased that the vast majority of the bodies that have developed their views at the second meeting find many positive points in this draft law. I think they're right. It is a lot of good things. You will allow me to give just two examples of IEC thematics. We all have now all seen how important logistics is, among other things, related to product delivery and e-commerce for the economic development of a country's region. I think that is very important. Let us think that some of the largest companies worldwide ought to expand or even shrink in these two professional fields. I'm finishing up too quickly with two questions. Would it not therefore be very important in Piraeus, for example, for one of the most important container ports in the Mediterranean or also in Triasios one of the most important transport points in south-eastern Europe to operate IEC thematically for shipping, logistics or e-commerce? In what city today are such curriculum programs offered directly in connection with everyday economic reality? I therefore have the certainty that this draft law is moving in the very right direction, and I obviously am voting in favour of it. Thank you very much for listening. I was too short, because we've been too tired all day on the computer in front of today. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u212	And we thank you for the time economy. Before I summon Mrs. Athanasia Anagnostopoulos, I want to say a few things on the occasion of this. The conditions we live are unprecedented. The procedures followed and these are the first to be applied. All parties are up-to-date. The list is not drawn up by the Bureau, it is drawn up in cooperation with the parties. You all have the list of the following entries. There are the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the parliamentary representatives and they are present throughout the sittings. Obviously the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups also do. There's on the list a first circle of speakers with a natural presence, he says. In fact, colleagues who have a physical presence leave after they have been placed. Thereafter there are a number of speakers from teleconferencing. They all obviously want to be in Parliament's Chamber. Now I'm in the difficult position, because Mrs. Anagnostopoulos has made it hard to come. Maybe he didn't know that in advance, because he wasn't so familiar. I will now give her the floor and then the parliamentary representative of the Group of the European People's Party, Mrs Fotini Bakada, will speak. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, you have the floor. I must, however, make this clarification, because we are mistaken as a Bureau, because we must not discriminate.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. You are right and we are all faithfully following this, but sometimes technical problems occur which we cannot overcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u214	That's why. You explained to me and I took it seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u215	Thank you very much. I want to start this bill following other bills brought by the Ministry of Education. I admire the Minister of Education, Mrs. Kerameos. It is the epitome and condensation of what Euclid Tsakalotus has called technicism: Half reality, half-coated reality and a style of expertise that there is no other solution. I heard the Minister tell Mr. Friends today: "Mr. Friend, don't you want the computers for those students who will give the Ministry?" Of course we all do. We don't know when they're being given. And above all, the Minister does not respond because they were not given before, and we have observed that the budget for 2020 was EUR 120 million. Reality two, half-collapsed: Our children, youth are plagued by unemployment. So what do we have to do? We must create another social 'elevator' to tackle unemployment. And here there's half-cooled truth. We are listening to the Members of the New Democracy say about one constituency, about the other constituency, because we need to close the eye where that is and there could be the other one, etc. It is covered by a great reality that the productive model, which has been followed for years and which has led to bankruptcy has failed in this country. For example, I am listening to Achaia, to this Kalavrita and to the Holy One, and I do not hear a word about why we closed up so many industries, because the economy of the region has fallen out, because we do not have production, because the schools are being closed in the villages and people are being forced to leave. There's a word. So, what's the solution? Here comes the design of the excellents, so what we need to do is direct the youth elsewhere. Where should we direct her? We are bringing a bill as a next step to the bills already brought by the Ministry - I remind you - because there is a lot to talk about universities, a lot of people entering universities. The Undersecretary, Mr. Digalakis, told us to blame the families who have this mentality and there is this attitude in Greece for taking the children to universities. They forgot to tell us something very important. If that's the case, why have college degrees been recognized as equivalent to universities? Why, on the other hand, the legislation made by the Ministry of Education was for private schools? Why now do we have IEK private, which will be directed to the university without any tests? So there's something going on here. I think the bill is deeply classic, deep anti-social and deep anti-democratic in the end. First class cynicism sample: At 15 years of age a student will leave the school environment, go to training, which is linked to the market. This is where the big problem arises. Instead of the state, instead of the state taking care of the conditions of sustainable, fair growth that tends to mitigate inequalities, we have a deepening of inequalities here. So what do we do? Market training. What do business want? Cheap staff. We therefore believe that unemployment is due to this. Mrs Fotou in the morning showed with statistics - I had this information myself - that unemployment is more plagued by young people who do not have a higher education degree. He needs an answer to that. We are getting children out of the school environment and in a strong hierarchical society, making them work without work rights and with State subsidies to businesses, that is to say, bankruptcy. And this is what we call tackling unemployment and a professional way out of our young people? This is the other class cynicism of the New Democracy, which we have heard from everyone. They say they all have to go to college? Does everyone have to go to high school? We have heard things I don't want to repeat, that there are graduates who don't know Elytes, Seferis and all that. We'll say it once and for all. The concern of the state - because we have a lot of child labour, anyway, for minors - is to keep children in the school environment. Do you know why? Neither to learn Elytes nor to learn Seferis, but to listen to him, to be able to have and recall in their lives, when needed, these important things that can make them citizens. It is important that they have heard an inspiring professor in PAAL who is, telling them that the Second World War did not take place against populism, but against Nazism, that they did not fight with volunteerism, but fought with an ideological mark. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have too much to talk about. The PSAs are divided into first and second category PSAs and we are making the standards. Therefore, instead of the burden of vocational education being based - since we are all talking about the Fourth Revolution, the Digital Revolution - on innovation and how it will give young people the tools to be able to carry out a profession with innovation, divides them into standards and normally PSALs. Here the worst is that the specialties are linked to what the market wants. It is not the state that has a national strategy for the market. It is the market that will determine vocational education and the IEKs are the very culmination of this attitude of the New Democracy, the Government. What are we doing? We do privately IEK, cut off public IEKs, depending on the students, and that's where they can go to university. So excellence is measured by the money that each parent will have. Here we do not make two "elevator", here we make fifteen "elevator", depending on the money, not even depending on the skills. I want to say one last thing at that level. You keep saying about the digital revolution, innovation and all that and you call on the European Union. Do you know what the big issue is, both in Europe and worldwide? How citizens can be equipped with abilities and judgment to distinguish the make news. Here the digital revolution puts a huge issue of democracy, equality, the development of critical capacity. It's one of the great problems of our times. That's why I'm talking! Like it doesn't exist. While we lived in this House yesterday in appalling situations: cutting off freedom of speech, publishers to bring Members back to vote, journalists who resign, take news coming. Young people must not have the critical ability. Because the digital revolution imposes democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u216	Complete, Mrs. Readstopoulou. You've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u217	Mr President, you are right. As far as universities are concerned, you cannot now change the way of examination within this pandemic crisis. You can't bring the police into the universities. You can't do too much. Take good care of this. One last word, if I may, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u218	Cuveda, yes, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u219	Yes, a proposal for the Greek German Youth Foundation. I will say that the whole House together, under the presidency of Nikos Voutsi, except for the Golden Dawn, voted for the conclusion. As a government at that time, we submitted the financial communication. The answer depends on how this Greek-German Foundation will be. It's very important. Don't take it on you. There can be no Greek-German institution, after the private announcement, to cultivate the memory of the two peoples of occupation. Watch it! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u220	The Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 Mr Fotini Bakadima has the floor. In the meantime, Minister, I have been asked questions from colleagues from different parties about when you will respond to the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u221	Can I take the floor now?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u222	Mrs. Bakadama, can the Minister take the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u223	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u224	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. First of all, I would like to submit to the House legislative improvements to the draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u226	Ministerial amendments have also been tabled, as you know, since noon. One concerns issues that have already been mentioned, questions of teaching books on the NSAs, arrangements for foreign-language curriculum, regulations on the IKY, electoral procedures at universities by e-voking. They've been filed since noon. In addition, a second amendment has been tabled since noon, which concerns, among others, recognition of qualifications, the recruitment of temporary deputies. This is very important in the context of 65. It gives more flexibility to meet the needs of primary and secondary schools to school nurses. There have already been questions of teachers and lecturers of ex TEI applications and arrangements for EPPI, as well as issues of student contracts involved in practical training programmes. I would like to say that a number of amendments have been tabled concerning to a large extent other ministries. For example, issues relating to the list of heavy and unhealthy professions. This has all been transferred to the relevant ministers. The amendments are not accepted. If there are any further applications, I will come back, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Minister. The speech is given by the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25 K. Fotini Bakadima.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me not to speak about the bill. After all, our friend and Vice-President of the House, Mrs Sophia Sakorafa, has been placed thoroughly and fully on this subject. I will use today's opportunity to share with you and, above all, to take note of the enormous problems faced by the students in my region of Piraeus. First of all, we should start from the many shortcomings in equipment, either tablet or fixed computers, so that students can connect to telecommunications. Unfortunately, and it is not only a feature of my own region, we have seen across our country that many such cases occur, households cannot afford to cover the costs of equipment or the costs of fast Internet connection so that children can, especially when they are and more than one, connect and attend their courses at the same time with completeness and adequacy. To make a parentheses and to note that it has been put into our knowledge that it is extremely costly to connect a home to the webex to the alternative use of the fixed phone, if there is no internet.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u229	It's solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u230	Thank you for clarifying. We have also seen several student initiatives. An example of the second Piraeus is Korydalos, where children on their own initiative, wanting to support their classmates, began to take steps to raise money to obtain tablets and computers and to share them with schoolmates who do not have the financial potential of their families to go to market. We also had examples of municipalities such as the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas who bought at his own expense - it is not the only example, but it is an indicative - also equipment and made it available to students in need. We also need to talk about Nice, where the 10th Municipal School Parents and Gardens Association proceeded to complaints, saying that the majority of students are attending - and they are not the only ones, many colleagues said so before me - telephony using a mobile phone. We can all understand how difficult and time - consuming and inappropriate this is for children. We also had the initiative here in the Municipality to buy equipment for teachers, for teachers, and it has already made a request to upgrade Internet connection at school. These are indicative examples, as I said before. Reality brings to light every day and new examples that show and describe in an extremely glamorous way a grim reality. However, there is no doubt that the needs are many and that is why central care should be taken to ensure that we have a sufficient solution and support for all citizens and - let me say - a real solution and not a solution to the problem of communication. Why am I talking about communication management? It passes in this bill the 200 euro voucher for purchasing equipment to single parents or families with one or two children, which should have about 500 to 1,000 euros a month income. Really, Minister, do you think you're solving the problem? By giving a 200 euro voucher out of state debt? Covered, executed, shall we go to our house with a very quiet conscience at night? Is it possible for the government to find money to give the public media, but does it not, to give education, find it not to give pupils? It is possible to suffice in a 200 euro voucher, which we know will not arrive, not to buy a tablet family, not to buy a printer, it will not reach for anything. How do we expect those people, who already have low incomes, to meet the limits you set, to cover the rest of the costs? Aren't they gonna pay their rent? Aren't they gonna pay their bills? Will they make cuts in food and family purchases for a month so that they can get equipment? Theoretically, although you are a liberal party, the New Democracy should be able to understand that the position in which you put your families, parents, who should be deprived of other things than their children, be it heating, be it food, be it an account, be it anything else, so that they can buy them the equipment and be able to attend their courses and not stay out of training, is at least deplorable and we should not be talking about this in a 21st century state. You'll tell me that I speak micro-politically, I make micro-political comments. It is not a small political comment, ladies and gentlemen. It is the imprint of the results of the New Democracy's policies and choices. But let me go ahead, because it is not just a shortage of equipment. We also have huge educational gaps, both in the schools of Piraeus and in other areas of our country. As an example, I'm going to use the Keracini, where the 1st Special Preschool is closed, because one kindergarten is on special leave. In the 6th Keratsini High School we have been vacant since the beginning of the school year in basic hours, in philosopher hours, in hours of foreign languages. We cannot talk about a bill that will change our education, whether it is educational education or is a total of education in our country, and stay children without being able to make foreign languages. You voted for a law that put English from the kindergarten and I fully agree with you on this point. However, children can’t learn English in kindergarten and can’t do English or other foreign language in high school. Perhaps we could have a little less time talking and close up here if there weren't even worse complaints. This was also the case by SYRIZA's colleague, Mr Vetta. We have daily complaints from families that their children can't watch, connect to televising, because PPC has cut their current. Families of the parents of the unemployed, even workers, who, due to the circumstances, have been suspended, are immersed in the dark for a few hundred euros. You know, it's not just the inability to follow the course. We are in the heart of winter. We're a few days before Christmas. It is incomprehensible to think that our fellow humans right now, their children, cold, no heat, cannot cook, cannot live in their home for amounts that - let me - are extremely low. One last incident, raised in my knowledge, is about a family in Keratsini. This is a single-parent family with two kids in high school. They cut the electricity to the mother, which could not even go to a settlement, for less than EUR 500. We should have taken care of and not have such cases in 2020 - we are going to 2021 - and whole families and children excluded from the education process, from life itself, from everyday life, because their parents are now either unemployed or on parole. Unfortunately, such incidents do not honor any state and I think they cause - or, at least, they should cause - revulsion to all of us. To close with a parentheses before I go back to the bill and close with issues relating to the Ministry of Education, I cannot comment on a last night's outrageous incident, which came as a culmination in many other things of the same style, type and form. We all may have heard - if not all of us, most of us - and we read about an outrageous incident, where a fine was cut on a cancerous woman and her escorts for a pointless move from Verea to Thessaloniki. Honestly, is that enough, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, the analgesia of the New Democracy? Is the rigour of class and civil protection exhausted in putting a fine on a woman who is fighting for her life and forced to move to another prefecture to undergo chemotherapy? It's not the only one. We have heard other incidents, such as in Krestena, where in an elderly woman who was wearing the mask, but who did not wear it properly, she was also cut off at the time she left the bank having been retired from the OGA! You will tell me yesterday's fine, after the mobilization and after the publicity that took the matter, it has been deleted. But that's not our point. Our point is that it shouldn't have even been cut. Madam Minister, to return to matters of your own competence, what I have said about the lack of equipment, the lack of training gaps, etc. - and we all remember cases of children going to cafeterias, either in taverns or out shops, because they didn't have internet at home and somehow had to log in to the webex - they don't honor any of us and they should make us feel unwell. We should all have in Greece in the 21st century as a protagonist, that no child, no student is a second-class student, no family is lower than others. You can't move the finger, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, to a family or to a child, because he wants to go to college and study and he doesn't want to do anything else in his life. I think that children should have a choice either to study or follow an art. I also think that you should not turn them into training, saying that they will be absorbed into the labour market. That's not certain either, and you know that very well. Your purpose, however, and your aim is to create cheap labour that will become employees of the oligarchs... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u231	I think you can take time from your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u232	Good. Thank you. Therefore, you want to create a cheap workforce that will become employees of the oligarchs and wealthy Greeks, of whom you are employees themselves. Finally, denounce the ideological sign of your policy in New Democracy, if you can, of course, do so. Finally, understand that it is necessary to ensure that we support all the citizens in need. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the coronary vaccine may come as soon as possible and the pandemic crisis begins. Unfortunately, however, the vaccine against poverty, against inequality, has not been found. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer to this question. I would like to ask him if he is prepared to do anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, too. You didn't use your dentistry. Overrun was in the context of the statistical error. We continue with the list of speakers. Mr. Theophilus Lionides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is investing in an educational system that incorporates modern know-how, is in line with international and European reality, promotes quality as an element of competitiveness, connects education to the labour market and aims not only at knowledge, but at real and integrated education. The growth of the Ministry of Education's budget for 2021, despite the major difficulties caused by the epidemiological crisis of the coronary, makes it easier for the planning of the Ministry for next year, which aims to strengthen public school in human resources with ten thousand five hundred permanent appointments in primary and secondary education and to invest significant funds in education at all levels, so that the institutional changes that are being made, help us to take the lead in the international competitive environment. In addition, the government invests 112 million euros for the purchase of technology equipment for students, students and students. It is an important action that supports the educational community and in particular the vulnerable social groups to further cultivate digital skills. The estimated number of beneficiaries is about three hundred twenty - five thousand families with about sixty thousand young people. It is a general finding that vocational education in Greece is degraded and degraded by Greek society. Only one in three graduates of high school chooses vocational high school, unlike many other European countries where rates are reversed. Any attempts made by previous laws had no spectacular effect. With the new draft law, we aspire to cure pathogens. The most important thing, however, is the "marriage" of education with the market. Currently employers are reluctant to offer even the minimum places of practical training or apprenticeship. Of course, in lifelong learning, which we are from the last in Europe, there is a huge cultural deficit and businessmen themselves are not as interested as they should and do not promote training as an effective and useful tool for modernising their business or for raising their staff. All this needs to be changed in terms of understanding, organisation and functioning of vocational education and training, so that we can open up new prospects for vocational technical education. With the new bill, for the first time, a Single Strategic Design for Vocational Education and Training and will be run by all the basics...(Not heard), for example, for the better interconnection with the economy...(Not heard.) It is directly linked to the real needs of the labour market for technical professions that have increased demand without responding. There is therefore a link between vocational education and the economy of the country and the labour market, so that there is no discrepancy between supply and demand in the technical professions. We therefore identify the real needs at national and local level of the labour market and connect with teaching and skills in vocational education. Thirdly, upgrading the quality of vocational education and training provided through modernisation of structures, simplification of procedures, renewal of curricula, improvement of the method of certification. In this way, we put an end to the complexity and duplication of structures and services, establishing for the first time distinct levels of qualifications and a single strategic planning, and responding directly to the real needs of the labour market, with the essential involvement of the social partners in the design of vocational education, training and lifelong learning, at central and regional level. We increase the level of vocational education and training provided as a whole. Among other things, provision is made for the creation of Level 3 of the National Qualifications Framework by setting up vocational schools for graduates. This enables young people to develop their specific skills at the level of the craftsman, who so far did not have, with developed skills, to go out better equipped on the labour market. They can, of course, then switch, those who have chosen to attend a level 3 training course at a professional high school. Level 4 provides for the establishment, for the first time, of standard vocational schools, to which pupils will be introduced on the basis of the degree of graduation and will act as pillars of the overall strategic planning to upgrade the vocational education and training system. It also provides for cooperation between professional high school models with public or private enterprises. With regard to vocational training institutes, IEKs, so-called level 5. The draft law introduces important innovations in relation to the functioning of IEKs: firstly, the establishment of public experimental IEKs and IEKs, always on the basis of the real needs of the labour market, the possibility for public and private IEKs to organise foreign-language sections, in the context of promoting the extroversion of the vocational training system, the possibility of IEKs being involved in European Union programmes in the field of vocational education and training. It also provides for the operation of professional development and career offices within IEKs and other vocational training structures to support trainees, advise them and guide them in the next steps in the labour market. We also upgrade the structures for continuing training of the Lifelong Learning Centres and set order, with the aim of improving the quality of the services provided. Ladies and gentlemen, we are constantly talking in our country about a new productive model, which will create many good jobs. But how is this transition going to be? The technological revolution changes everything. We could move on to a new field, on a next economic track, could we, unorthodoxly? Many services currently provided in the country can be internationally marketed, from health services and care services for the elderly to nutrition. And we are talking about products produced by the Greek land, such as the Greek feta with specialization in the cherry schools, such as the Greek tsipouro, the Greek wine, which are elements of Greek nature and Greek tradition. I also mention, for example, clothing products, architectural design, energy issues, such as gas, which other colleagues have mentioned, and from the Serres Prefecture, almost all pipelines go through and they need skilled craftsmen. Each region should show its comparative advantages, with the corresponding specialities, to be qualified in the vocational schools.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u235	And that's it, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u236	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously this productive model also presupposes... [[It didn't sound because of a bad connection]] ...with the Law on Vocational Training to give the dimension and content that we need to. It is necessary for all of these modern national educations. Thank you, Mr President. Merry Christmas, good year and good holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u237	Also, Mr. Comrade. We continue with Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos. Can he hear us, he sees us? Oh, no. Mr. Constantopoulos, you don't sound. Correct your connection and we'll come back. We shall now proceed to the New Democracy Member, Mrs Stergiani Biziou.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, vocational education and training in Greece has been downgraded and devalued over the last few decades, which has ultimately been translated into failure to meet the needs of businesses and then to fail to integrate the graduates of vocational education into the labour market. For many years vocational education has been in the consciousness of parents and pupils equivalent to social decency. Although the demand for medium-level workers has always been and is still high, it has not been an attractive choice for our young people. There is a well-established concept which does not correspond in reality to the fact that general and higher education ensures better employment prospects. The figures show that only 28.8% of students in Greece choose initial vocational education and training, with the European average being around 47.8%. The official figures say that many businesses today fail to meet needs and job vacancies. One in the three Greek companies is dealing with this, while there are branches such as energy, where almost one in the two companies is unable to provide their capacity adequately. Vocational training is the foundation of the economy. An economy in order to be productive, competitive and above all not to suffer from unemployment, must be staffed by appropriately trained people. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill attempts to restructure the whole range of vocational education and training and lifelong learning, mainly on three lines. The first axis is the common strategic planning of vocational education and training, for the first time with distinct levels of qualifications in implementation and the European qualification framework, to avoid overlapping structures and services. The second axis is the direct link between vocational education, training and lifelong learning with the labour market, with the essential involvement of the social partners in their design, and at central and regional level, through the Central Council for Vocational Education and Training. Finally, the third axis is the upgrading of education and training provided, initial and continuing, at the level of structures, processes, curricula and certification. In other words, this is a comprehensive and comprehensive proposal, based on the redesign of all forms of vocational education, aimed at avoiding overlapping and the active involvement of the social partners, employers and workers, who have been asked to transfer for the first time the needs of the Greek market and the economy to our educational system. The bill upgrades vocational education and training to reflect the role it deserves. But learning is not limited - nor should - to a single specific phase of human life. Learning occurs in different stages and phases of evolution during our lives. The length of people's career is escalating, the changes are happening at a storming rate and it is now necessary to acquire new skills, as the ones we have gained are obsolete. The concept of "training, to do something life" is an old learning model that has no power anymore and is probably no longer desirable even by the workers themselves. More and more people have to rely on continuing vocational development to remain competitive on the labour market. With rapidly changing technology, the speed at which businesses must operate to compete in a global economy, and with life expectancy to grow steadily, it is clear that lifelong learning is necessary for people to remain relevant to the workplace. We are faced with a reality that says that in many professions workers are faced with the prospect that their existing skills will become obsolete, but often it is not obvious how they will acquire new ones. Adult learning is therefore vital in order to overcome economic challenges and meet the demand for new skills, lasting productivity in an increasingly changing global economy. Therefore, the challenge for the state is to respond to this request and to help people retrain and continue to learn. Our bill provides for the redefinition of the role of the Centres for Lifelong Learning, which will provide adults with retraining, skills upgrade, continuing vocational training, professional guidance and advice, but in a context that will ensure the improvement of the quality of the work and the content of the programmes, while adopting a certification system by the National Organisation for Qualification and Vocational Guidance and, above all, is a European requirement. Both vocational education and lifelong learning have an economic and social dimension: an economic dimension, because it is, in fact, an investment in human resources, involving the enterprise and highlighting it to a key partner in the learning society and, of course, a social dimension, because it contributes to the creation of equal opportunities and the provision of educational opportunities for all. The most important element of this bill is that it aims to change attitudes on vocational education. Our policy focuses on upgrading the institution by highlighting the many benefits that linking vocational education and training with the labour market will bring to society. In an ERNST & YOUNG survey, on issues of human resources in Europe, 48% of research enterprises define as a key factor in the choice of the country where they will invest access to skilled staff and 37% of the overall approach, the development of skills and the quality of the educational system. We invest in human capital by implementing quality vocational education and training, we are planning a coherent and comprehensive national strategy by promoting substantial relations between the main players of the economy, including enterprises, social partners and educational institutions. Education, training and learning are at the heart of creation and are a key factor in the dynamics of each society and economy. They complement and interact with areas such as employment, social integration, research and innovation, culture and youth, business policy, the information society, economic policy and the internal market. We, as a party, committed ourselves to making Greece a point of attraction for global investment. Our human potential will be the foundation for the transformation of our economy. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u239	We also thank you for keeping time. Did Mr. Konstantopoulos' connection improve technically to connect? Oh, no. Make sure you correct your connection, Mr. Constantopoulos. Mr. Constantine Markou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u240	Good evening and everyone. I would like to begin by noting that, with this bill, the Ministry of Education is able to achieve another successive blow to the time that New Democracy is in the government. Actually, it guarantees darkness, not excellence. And we will fight and restore excellence. And I'm saying it with full knowledge of what I'm saying. I therefore ask, in principle, a first question as well as a doctor's status to the Minister. In March, none of us knew, and we were surprised. The education and all of Greece has suffered. In October you were not prepared and education still suffers tragic consequences. Madam Secretary, the schools are supposed to start on 7 January. I wish! The point is, maybe they don't start. What measures are you taking from now, where we are, December 17th? Then don't tell us: what would you do in our place? We're telling you now before that date. Let's get to the bottom of the bill. I will speak in my capacity as a doctor and as president of the Central Board of Health I was. During my term of office we have been concerned for a year, we have been tortured by the age when it would be the separation limit for children to be treated in hospitals or in adults. For one year with pediatricians, developmentists, scientists were tortured and we concluded that until 16 years old children are children and will be hospitalized if needed in children’s hospitals. So these children are now inserted into uninsured and degraded work and you are evacuating them from their natural space. This is the result of your bill. We are - we will soon - in favour of 12 years of compulsory vocational education and classical education. We are now coming to details. Vocational training schools - I said this before - now introduce childhood into work, under-financed and under-financed. You come and do other things that are tragic. You reduce public IEKs in favour of private IEKs - we know your sympathy with this - and even when 80% of students, as we receive information from the Centres for Lifelong Learning and Education, are unhappy with the education they receive. 80% of students! We are talking about these downgraded scientific and educational institutions, private IEK. In fact, when you proclaim - transparently - that university education is no longer meant to mean enrolment and enter a class examination from private IEK, is that excellence? Is that any progress? Is that discipline? At the same time, you degrade public IEKs, which will result in a significant number of them being shut down by the deterioration of their students and by the deterioration of their trainers. We'll see about it in February. You're talking about the graduation threshold for higher education institutions. Your space one brings it, once it's taken, once it's brought back, once it's taken again. You forget, however, that all-Greek exams are not exams, they are a competition. And basically, it concerns a noble talk about who will be better hits. Whether to get a candidate "2" or to get "13", depends on the quality and rigour of the topics. So she's totally subjective. In any case, you intend to close schools at universities - the perfect ones! - and not only that, but you've been abolished, you're also completing the two-year vocational training at universities that already passed in September would start and which was a substantial upgrade of vocational education, which is what SYRIZA legislated. I'm coming to something else now. We live days of undemocratic aberrations. Yesterday in Parliament it was a black day in parliamentary history. At the same time, you consistently in this policy of your Government, of the anti-democratic diversion, proceed after the trick that you have suffered by electronic voting in the Services in an even greater diversion and autism by nominating to the post of elected members of the Services Councils. You will proceed, as you say. I hope at the end - although I do not have much hope from you, Minister - that you will not establish the police force within the universities. You can't stop the wheel of history. You can't stop the wheel of progress. Of course, you can do that with traumatic experiences from society and from the youth that you are going to learn, but this wheel will not stop. In conclusion, I will refer to the Hellenic German Youth Foundation. Mr President, I have the status of Kalavritinos, who completed his circular studies in Kalavrita, which was born ten years after the destruction of the Kalavrytas. I'm going to tell you something that has to be known, something very important that happened in the 1950s in Kalavrita. Ten years after the disaster, a German Foundation came in 1953, with the support of the then West Germany, the Federal Republic, and Greece and asked the mothers, widows of the Kalavritans, and took with the approval of the thirty-six children who went to Germany and studied there and they all went out. This, in principle, shows a braveness of soul that exists and exists in this city, ten years after the destruction of their mothers giving their children to go to Germany. Everyone's back with great scientists. It is therefore a climate that, when it comes to reciprocity, is productive. When heterogeneous, it's not productive. I conclude with this specific article of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u241	Complete because the time has passed and the procedure has to be closed. Close with the last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u242	I'll be back in a minute. There have been many inaccuracies. He said the rapporteur of the Change Movement was voted and signed five, ten days before the elections. No more inaccurate! It was passed on October 11, 2018 and became state law by the government of SYRIZA. SYRIZA's government sent after the private announcement. Germany, under its regime, received approval from its federal states and returned this same text for approval in May in Greece - then the self-government elections were delayed - and they were signed with all the legal conditions that existed from the then Secretary-General of the New Generation. It's not honorable, for the sake of micro-political reasons, to use inaccurate evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u243	It's understood. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u244	I'm hanging up with this. I am not optimistic, but we are calling - and not as the New Democracy rapporteur once again said - for the article to be withdrawn - back into a separate bill, a separate procedure, which also has the stamp of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and after a productive debate to be passed by the Greek Parliament. We don't need to speak inaccurately of very serious things.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u245	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u246	Happy holidays to all...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u247	Mr. Marcus, we're out of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u248	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Philly, man speaks. Don't interrupt him. Mr Marcus, if you can hear us, we wish you well. Merry Christmas and good holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u251	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Constantopoulos, I will give you the floor as soon as Mr. Philis finishes a little intervention he wants to do. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, I will be very brief. I have just been informed that the meeting of the Rectors' Conference which it held today decided that it disagrees with Article 43 of the IKK bill and calls for it to be withdrawn. Please, Madam Minister, let us know what it will do. The Rectors' Session at meetings...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u254	That's what it sounds like, Mr. Philly. Mr Constantopoulos, give me a minute, because the Minister wants to give an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, I have tried to speak three times. It's a technical problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u256	It's all right, Mr. Constantopoulos. Stay on the line. We're not disconnecting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u257	It's a technical problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u258	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u259	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, let me state that I haven't seen any announcements. If you've seen her, I'd be happy to see her, let me read it. I haven't seen any announcement from the Rectors' Synod. I'd be happy to read it. In any case, let me say this: The permeability between level 5 and level 6 and, more generally, the connection to SNEs is also valid today and may be analysed by the State Secretary. There is a law which already provides for permeability. Secondly, I do not know any country in Europe that is not permeable between level 5 and level 6. Even the recent recommendation of the German Presidency was that there should not be any housing at all. But in any case, Mr Philly, give us the announcement to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u260	It's your obligation. Ask the Rectors' Conference to give you the decision of the Session.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, education is a public good and I would say that it requires consensus and wider shocks. It requires dialogue and consultation, which we have not seen. With this bill, Minister, you remind me of Mr Gavroglou, of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, who, without any expression of an opinion of the IPU, did not consult without dialogue, abolish higher technical education, i.e. TEIs, overnight. With graduates who really do not know the correspondence of their degrees and in any case their professional rights. Of course, all this has been abolished from the clipboard. That is why, Minister, I would say that this bill came with very brief procedures. The Ministry followed the procedures - I would say - by Mr Gavroglou. As in one night Mr Gavroglou, as I said, abolished higher education in terms of technological education, so you have brought for the PES and for technological education in one night a bill, which in fact did not have proper consultation. That is how more than five hundred comments were made. At the hearing of the bodies, specific comments were made, but, Minister, they were not taken into account. It should be noted here that almost a third of the articles of the bill come to a vote without consultation and, in fact, articles which require dialogue in depth, such as the provision for the establishment of the services councils, with the substantial abolition of the institution of the elected representatives. Here, Minister, we tell you clearly, that you proceed immediately to the re-establishment of the National Education Council and open the doors of the Ministry to the Federations of Education and the bodies for substantial dialogue. Let me remind you that you have repeatedly referred to it as opposition, but you have forgotten it as government. Ladies and gentlemen, the finding is one: this bill serves a policy that is dominating, I would say, neoliberalism and, at the same time, the proposal of market demands, of course, towards social needs and public interest. This policy, however, conflicts entirely with the concept of education as a public asset. Madam Minister, in the draft law the relationship between education and the market is not proposed, I would say, on an equal footing, since the market is being promoted and the education is being pursued. The curriculum is not based on the intention of science, but on the demands of employers, with a view, of course, to the low level of qualifications and cheap labour. That is why I would say that this bill does not agree with us. Ladies and gentlemen, linking vocational education to the labour market is only acceptable when it is equal and two-way. The effort to upgrade vocational training rather than vocational education also shows that there is no equivalence between both sides of high school, namely PES and GEL. In this way, an extensive range of postnatal and early training is being established by the establishment of vocational training schools which will provide natural apprenticeships from an early 15-year-old and without even providing for remuneration. These schools will be able to operate every public and private body and even employers. However, this form of training creates, I would say, Minister, serious problems, since students from 15 years of age do not have the maturity for professional choices which should be in a general school environment. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill does not upgrade vocational education through the ESDP and does not highlight the dual role, I would say, of vocational education: a diploma and a diploma. This, of course, is a way out of the labour market or access to the university respectively. The decision-making bodies shall be re-established and, at the same time, they shall be staffed by a parallel body, naturally controlled by the Minister and the Secretary-General. In essence, the proposals made in this project will result, firstly, in a significant reduction in the capacity of the ESDP and in the removal of sectors and specialities. Secondly, the overnumbers of teachers. Thirdly, the direction of pupils in early training and underage work. It should be noted here that the PSA standards created under the draft law are a positive step. However, they should also be combined with the existence of experimental ESDPs, where new curriculum and innovation programmes would be in place. Finally, as far as IEC is concerned, the establishment of experimental and thematic IEC is a positive development. Similarly, in a positive direction, there is also the possibility for graduates with their access to universities. However, the horror, Minister, in the context of this possibility, is not identified, which must be done immediately so that the arrangements can be implemented and not left on paper. Finally, with regard to the EEA, its institutional role as a certification guard is assigned to individuals, without even a specific legislative framework for carrying out the certifications. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, the paths to education must be open, transparent and unwritten. The legalisation of vocational education together with training rather than general education has a specific political meaning. This is because, in fact, the non-confidentiality of the PSAs with the GAAPs, together with the lyrics, shows that there is no equivalence between the two lyric institutions. However, education and education, Minister, is not unilaterally seen in the labour market, but in society. What our country needs, I would say, is a strong public education system and a progressive reform that will introduce into education in the digital ages. Instead, what is achieved in the bill is that vocational education is unilaterally strengthened as training and simply obeying market rules. We, the Change Movement, support education and spiritual and social development through lifelong education and lifelong learning. We support training, specialization and the search for professional guidance with a view, and we invite you, Minister, to do the same. I close with the amendments tabled by the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u263	You're closed, Mr. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u264	We have tabled our proposal to heavy and unhealthy...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u265	Mr. Constantopoulos, you have completed the time. Mr President, I shall end.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u266	Shut up. Tell us our blessings, we'll tell you what we'll do.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u267	It is the minimum recognition of their offer, because I would say, in addition to the simple bracelets we all give them, it is good to incorporate them into heavy and unhealthy. In the same context, we have also tabled an amendment for the reimbursement of a disability pension or death pension due to COVID -19 to workers on the front line of dealing with the pandemic and to their families. We invite you, Minister, to accept them. Thank you. There are some technical problems. Be good and good holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, too. Happy holidays, Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u269	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u270	Would you let me finish the procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u271	I spoke to the President of the Rector's Synod, Professor Papaioannou, from Thessaloniki, and he confirmed to me that the excursions disagree with Articles 43 and 44 of the bill and request their withdrawal. I would ask the Minister to contact him because the man can't find her on the phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u273	You can't, Mr. Jufi. Excuse me. Will you let me move on to the process?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u274	You gave the floor to Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u275	I gave him the floor to your parliamentary representative, because that's how I have to do it. The rapporteur cannot take the floor whenever he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u276	On a point of order, Mr President. We have tabled amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u277	It's not a point of order. Mr. Blucho has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was wondering, ladies and gentlemen, ladies of the Vice-President, listening to your speeches and objections to the bill, although even your most fanatical supporter can claim whether your days left you some social center, as the Left likes to believe, an footprint on technical and vocational education and education in general, if the quality of education at vocational level was changed. I do not know whether I am in vain, because I have the impression that for five years a static, necro-liberal reality has been established, with an inspired dedication to dry and tense slogans, gradually leading to a nuclear decomposition of education, enclosing it into a systemic sarcophagus of inefficiency. I would like to say one sentence to Roydes: 'The market for the most part is a lively one. The types of the train are supported. Education? You do a little good in transit, but completely unclaimed. The most advantageous thing of the highest quality and of small prices.’ Sarcastic aversion, its power of time. However, I am thinking of what your interventions have brought me to mind in the face of the legislative effort that it is ambitious to bring about the lives of the marginal, desolate, obsolete, the absence of school life, which is, however, the engine of production and of the economy. It has proved so unjust and unsatisfactory, focusing on the arrogance you have shown and your opportunistic approach, supposedly defending the poor children who will work from the fifteen. You called him a cynicism. There is reason for the direct relation with society. You do not respond to the emerging reality. You remember education in the name of your imputed ideological monasticism, we say. I believe that our current legislation is clearly necessary to cure the damage caused by ideological obsessions and to correct the abnormalities arising from them. We now recognize structural fanaticism and confront the inertia, the permanent tractor of the autonomous inefficient system. Because until now, every student and later student and unemployed person has learned for years, has been trained in the poem of a miserable union: not in minor apprenticeship. Not early training. Not at the theme bank, which turns pupils into technical schools to become cheap unskilled workers. Not in the categorisation of schools. ‘No’, ‘No’. Tragic repetition of "no", but comicotragic and theatreism. And the unemployment of graduates keeps well and in parallel we seek enlightened teachers to listen to our children Seferis and Elyte. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important not to be demagogled by education. It is absolutely necessary to reflect whatever reality - that is the challenge - without hypocrisy. What were the aspects of populism until today? People's language, folk education, such as people's health and everything else. Every demagogue is burned to speak the language of the people, that he cares about the education of the people, as he is, in parallel, killed for the health of the people. In addition, the other aspect of populism, educational education, which is the only way to dominate the uneducated, the mass production of graduates in many ignorant and scientists who are not overseeing the alphabetically of movements and enriching the lists of unemployed people and, above all, they are not able to appear useful anywhere without hands, without knowing, without "know how", as is commonly said. I say it with soul pain. CVs for young people with low-skilled professional potential. In unemployment, how many institutions should we sacrifice from the foam of our society to see very clearly what the Pissaridis Committee tells us? Of course, the Pissaridis Commission did not need to tell us clearly that vocational education and training must be closely linked to the labour market. It's self-evident, by definition. It is time to be deceived by the alchemic chimera of the educational fantasy of the Left. All the large and medium-sized companies that invest around the world the first they ask are workers with good medium-sized skills, if we want to grow on a sustainable basis. Of course, sustainable development will reap your racing medals. If we want to stop dependence on the monoculture of tourism or shipping, we need to be serious and well-designed for real vocational training. We're talking about today's Greek school parity. It is a parable, because in the last forty years production and processing have been persecuted in that country. The first reason was the "aircraftmakers" associated with public and party Gruezes. If we want to look in the face of the crisis that went through, but she's always close to us, we'll see right here her causes. The lack of active vocational education has led to a lack of professional and productive awareness, which have in turn brought about an increase in the factors of deterioration. The economic indicators and the numbers of the lamentation are abrupt with these factors. How difficult is an investment in production and processing in this place, with how much obstacles, with how much time and even when the funds exist? In this country, over the last forty years blood has been spilled to close and not to open up businesses that produce internationally marketable products and bring wealth.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u279	Finish in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u280	I wonder from my experience primarily and secondaryly of what I am learning, is Greek vocational education today real or pretextful? Is it moving in the context of realistic or fantasy? Is the instructors familiar or are they just comfortable? Are the laboratories modern and equipped or are they moving in the virtual frame? Is there a professional orientation? Is there an apprenticeship in real workplaces? Is there a link of expertise with each other's local productivity and entrepreneurship? To date, the answers to these questions have been moving further within the framework of the negative and deficit. We are talking about the exact side of Greek education, we are not just talking about buildings with shredder and chairs alone. The bill submitted to us by the Ministry's leadership gives sufficient answers to any such question that has been arousing for years now. It is very important and the extra money they ask for from the budget for the equipment of laboratory centres, in a positive direction, and the ESDP standards, is also necessary and the upgrading of apprenticeship and IEKs. It is useful that the mobility that reaches the HEIs is also necessary for the professional training schools that enable graduates to follow...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u281	To conclude, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u282	I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, I think that the reform should at some point be completed with the brave establishment and completion of the evaluation of the educational project. This vaccine may constitute the vaccine in the educational endemic of inefficiency. We expect the vote and its faithful implementation to overcome our educational pathologies with real competition and real productivity. I shall close, Mr President, by wishing all my fellow citizens a good Christmas and especially good health. For me, always with due respect and affection for the human suffering of illness and loss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u283	We are all dealing with the best and first of all health. We conclude with Mrs Papacosta - Paliura Katerina. Madam Colleague, you have the floor. I'll beg you in seven minutes to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u284	All right, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before I go to the bill under discussion, to begin my position with a brief reference to the Prime Minister's participation in the debate with the OECD officials on the expansion of his work and the creation of additional support for the states. There the Prime Minister set among his other proposals the interconnection of education and skills with the digital economy, an interconnection involving three areas: firstly, education - vocational training, secondly employment and thirdly the economy. In essence, it is a chain consisting of three linkes leading to the renewal of human resources, restarting at the same time productive tissues and new economic activities. This proposal by the Prime Minister stresses the need for technical skills in Greek economic life, which, unfortunately, are in demand with these skills and technical training to cover them. While it scares us from Brain Drain, our young people with scientific discrimination are going abroad to find work or even to stay in the country of unemployed people in unrelated fields, at the same time the percentage of high school graduates studying in IHN in Greece is in the third place in the OECD series, with an average of 70%, while the average in the European Union is 52.4% and in the OECD 53%. I'm filing the relevant table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Catherine Papakostas - Palioura, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I think it is a common place, ladies and gentlemen, that we lack productivity and participation in the economy, while, on the other hand, we are gaining in stereotypical beliefs that everyone must study at the university, thereby allowing pupils to take the opportunity to realize which direction they really are. I mention this because it is a number of times that vocational schools are treated as a means of escape from the pan-Hellenic examinations, study, apprenticeship consistency, and should be a serious compensatory factor in unemployment, and particularly in the technical specialities that present considerable demand on the domestic labour market. We must formulate the education, training and lifelong learning provided so that it is an option with alternative and professional outlets and not the last option or necessity solution. For this reason, the Ministry proceeds in coordination with the establishment of a national framework of qualifications, a system of vocational education and training developed at level 3, i.e. vocational education and training at level 4, i.e. education at general level, and at level 5, i.e. vocational education institutes. All the above levels will be in line with the European Qualifications Framework. In particular, this consists of education and training aimed at providing young people and adults with knowledge, know-how, skills and skills required by specific professions. Let us note here, of course, that according to the ESI 2020 indicator Greece is in the last place in growth, activation and matching skills with the percentage of participation in vocational education and training touching just 30%. At the same time enterprises in the productive sector of the economy already face difficulties in covering job vacancies with 46.2% of enterprises stating that their staff do not have appropriate knowledge and skills. So in these paths of our educational system we respond with four structural changes that are taking place in this project: firstly, vocational training is linked to the labour market. How does that work? With the establishment in each region of an eleven-member Council, which will identify needs and demand on the local labour market. This is as there are variations from place to place according to the production process. Secondly, standards of vocational education are being established, an innovation which follows on from model schools in general education. It is a transitional school and it rightly stipulates that the criterion of admission to professional high school standards will be the extent to which pupils' dismissals are made. This encourages excellence and this category of schools, ending here the conviction that these schools are for poor students who avoid studying. Thirdly, a new alternative level of study is being created after high school and before high school, where graduates in high school will be able to obtain specific qualifications, adapted to the needs of the market in specific technical occupations with two years of study and special courses. Unfortunately, our country is the only country in the European Union that has not established the highest level. Countries such as Malta, Romania, the Czech Republic and Slovakia have already combined training with technical training. Fourthly, IEKs are being upgraded by redefining the procedure for defining the specificities provided by them with a view to adapting to changing needs of the labour market and defining more clearly the content of their regulations. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very saddened that you are not stubborn in your malicious criticism, because trying to nurture government policy and particularly in terms of the education system, you have committed yourself to business problems. I therefore suggest that you check your signatures under Law No.4386/2016, a Friends Act, which abolishes professional schools and under Law 4547/2018, the Gavroglou Law and Jufi Law and Article 105, which defines the characteristics of underage workers, students in summer school. Even in your response and information for the citizens, 104 million euros have been guaranteed as a budget for the practical exercise of students already before the adoption of this law, which demonstrates the strategic planning for the legislative initiatives taken. There's not a single device here without a design. I close with this sentence, Mr President: the two-speed society you often call on, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is the university and the EPA, the GEL and the EPA, the scientist and the craftsman, excellence and cheap work, as your rapporteur said. All that you have ideologically believed and tried to implement with your government path is what ultimately strengthens social inequality. We are dismantling your thinking and not following your insanity, because for us quality in vocational education and training is a goal. The professional outlet for young people, the stimulation of the economy and the reduction of unemployment. That is why we are voting in favour of this bill today. Thank you very much and Merry Christmas to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u285	We stand and thank you for the time economy. In order to go to the last phase, I will read the times of the Rapporteurs and Special Buyers: Mr. Fotillas from New Democracy spoke 16,30 minutes, Mrs. Jufi from SYRIZA spoke 16,50 minutes, Mrs. Kefidou from KINAL spoke 19,10 minutes, Mr. Delis from KKE spoke 20,40 minutes, Mrs. Asmakopoulou from the Greek Solution and Mrs.Sakorafa spoke 15,45 minutes, and the Vice President of Parliament from Mera25, as always in the life of the champion, spoke 15,40 minutes. After that, I will give you all of three minutes for a second, starting from the end to the biggest parties. Mrs. Sakorafa has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Madam President, I won't even need three minutes. I think that dialogue over all these days has also been exhausted in the committee four consecutive days and today. We don't have too much to talk about. The Minister does not get the bill back, as we suggested. What I want to say is that it is clear that the Ministry of Education is once again resorting to fragmentary moves which will in no way succeed in achieving the declared objectives of the bill, which it has put to Parliament. In addition, these moves have been made once again with a pre-standard dialogue, with most bodies saying that they have not been in dialogue with the Ministry, without the views of all the actors being heard. The sole aim of the Ministry of Education, which serves the proverbiality, would be consistency and, from this draft law, the transfer of more and more functions, of all levels of education, to private hands. I would ask the Minister for the last time to withdraw Rule 147. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u287	Again champion Ms. Sakorafa. Thank you very much. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u288	I will not exhaust three minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u289	I want competition in reduction!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u290	I simply wanted to say to the Minister that he is bringing amendments at the last minute, without having the time to process them. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much. Let's go to Mr. Delia from the JRC. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u292	Thank you very much, Mr President. Two words about the second-rate schools, these scumbags of Greek education. They've been sloppy for years now, they're starting to work too late. There was a year when their operation began even in May. The teachers of these schools are, in their vast majority, paid for months. As you can see, these are not conditions for a second chance school, specifically aimed at groups and people who need education and want in their lives these people, who are older than other social structures to start the struggle of knowledge for the second time. Apart from the fact that there are a number of cases, such as this year, which such second-rate schools had to open up, they did not open up. I'm going to give you a typical example from Central Evros, and I'm talking about the City of Sufli. There was the need to work, there were applications, everything was ready, the decision of the municipality, the decision of the school and the government made it not to do so by condemning these people not to go to school this year, because as you can see, they cannot from the mountain range and from the surrounding villages to Orestiad or Alexandroupolis, since these cities are at least sixty kilometers away from that area. I go to two other provisions, literally poison. One concerns the so-called 'local recruitment system'. It is a bomb - we said yesterday - the system currently in force in the centralised tables in the Ministry and, of course, it opens the way for what we call 'decentralised school', which will of course also have a decentralised recruitment system. As for the other provision of poison, which concerns the appointment of employees' representatives - because that is what you are doing, Minister, you are appointing who will be the representatives of the workers - a provision which is a sign for the Ministry of Education of the country. We're asking for him to retire. In any case, this whole matter could have been followed - and it was correctly followed - for workers' representatives at the European Parliament's Service Council. The term could be extended - that is what teachers told you - and the elections should take place at the earliest opportunity when health normality is finally restored to a certain extent. You didn't do none of this. You proceeded to an e-election, you slandered teachers that they wanted one day a week - on Wednesday in particular - not to take a lesson and have elections. None of this is true. You moved on to the elections, your teachers literally turned your back, and even 5% or 6% did not participate. You want to say 7% and agree? It is not the pan-Hellenic results that are more than that. You considered the result valid and legitimate when you ask the workers to vote 50+1% of the cash-based members to come out. I would like to make one final comment. We must also state our agreement to the amendment to the Change Movement on the award of pensions to people who are victims of COVID at work, for health workers, for all those who work in social structures. This is a pragmatic demonstration of the supply of these people who continue to fight today and now in the front line. I shall conclude, Mr President, with a comment on the level and the fact that it should go up. It often repeats the leadership of the Ministry of Education about the drop in the educational level of candidates in universities and considers that it will be corrected by making technical interventions in the system of access, which is to give the universities themselves the right to choose their students. The other is the solution, Minister. We've said it too many times before. The solution is to strengthen the content of schools. Let us not talk more about the situation and the content of books in primary and secondary education. And, of course, you must strengthen general education in all the last three grades of high school, because there too we are taking the classes of general education and leading to a specific state education. This is the solution if we really want the educational level to rise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u293	We'll give the floor to the Special Rapporteur of the Change Movement, Mr. Joy Headside.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u294	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, two new amendments have been tabled during this process. Two had been filed in yesterday's process, two new ones were now tabled. It's small bills that you've brought. I must tell you that at least we received them in our emails after 17: 00, now how you sent them at noon, I don't know. But that's not the point. The point is that since dialogue is already limited and conditional, you should give us time to understand what we are coming to vote on in this Chamber. I'm going to tell you a few typical examples. In Amendment No 671, you are coming to Article 8 and you are supplementing a provision which already exists in the bill you are asking us to vote on and that is Article 126. Also, in Amendment No 672, in Article 4 you come and are essentially supplementing provisions on the EEA, which, in the bill which we will also vote on, you have devoted at least five to six pages. If this means to you that you have a holistic design, please tell me how you mean it. Provisions are in place that should be in the initial arrangements, and you are bringing amendments at the last minute to supplement the provisions of previous amendments, namely now take note of the amendment, regulation and regulation. If it's something that characterizes you, it's the pride with which you're talking about the good legacy. If, therefore, it is a good piece of legislation, and if you do believe that there is consultation, dialogue, consensus with the social partners, then in this way you can confirm some other malicious people who come and say that what has come to the amendments is essentially photographic provisions of the last minute and that is why this sloppyness. I want to go to Article 3 of the amendment under number 672. Madam Minister, we asked you a question, which would make us an impression if you answered it, because in the questions that we have submitted to you - and at another time I will tell you numbers - you do not have the habit of ever answering. So we have asked you the question, and today you come and legislate, after you have seen your shortcomings and your omissions, and you do so in the nut if you do not want to give another political body a step for something that is trying to help and to be constructive with proposals. If that is the way you think problems are solved, then we give it to you. Let this effort be done, at least some of our fellow citizens can find solutions to their problems, and let us not tell anyone that this is the result of our own parliamentary effort. We waited, Minister, after the submission of a highly structured, well-processed and targeted proposal that we have submitted to you to find a word to tell us how we can see all our own legislative effort. It is okay to know that we will continue with a serious, targeted opposition and always for the benefit of its country and its citizens. As I see you have a question, then, I say that the question tabled is number 2570/10/12/2020 "Teacher recruitment invitations to the University of Western Attica". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u295	And we thank Mrs. Kefalidou. Now, Mrs. Jufi has the floor, who thought she would be wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u296	I'll start backwards, like Mrs. Cephalidou started. Indeed, this story of being submitted to us with blockages of bills at the last minute does not give us any opportunity not only to study them, but also to talk about substantial legislation. Moreover, the second problem, which is, of course, a time-consuming problem, is that various articles are being filed that creates huge difficulties for us for the position we can take in each of them separately. Amendment No 672, tabled by the Ministry and, in particular, Article 1, is an absolute surprise. It concerns thousands of people, it speaks of the recognition of professional qualifications that is changing by this provision the decision to recognise qualifications, and it obliges professional bodies to recognise them. We believe that this is why there has been no dialogue, it is coming at the last minute and we call on the Minister to revise it and get it back, because it is about thousands of people. On the other hand, there are articles in the same amendment, which we would of course like to vote on. I would also refer to Article 3, which concerns the teachers and lecturers of the former technological educational establishments, which in a previous bill we had tabled an amendment, which was rejected precisely for the same reasons as Mrs Kefalidou explained, so that nothing would be accepted in a positive direction on the part of the opposition. On the other hand, we who have made a very serious effort on important issues which have been involved in the last few years to table our own amendments, have certainly not been able within a very short time to talk about their substance. So, very quickly, we have asked you not to proceed with the appointed members of the service council, but to extend, Madam Minister, the term of office of the nominations. Of course, the results of the elections cannot be accepted, and that is why we have tabled a specific amendment, and I would ask that it be taken into account, since the President of the Parliament has given us the self-evident opportunity to extend the term of office of elected representatives of the Greek Parliament for a period of five months until the pandemic is over. In the same direction, we consider that the policies within the schools of evaluation - teleassessment rather than substantial measures, such as the immediate reduction of the curriculum and an effort to strengthen teaching, the abolition of the Bank of Issues and the hierarchy of the aims and objectives of teaching for this year's difficult school year is very critical. That is why we have tabled an amendment calling at least for the school year 2020-2021 not to come into force. In this respect, for higher education institutions, we have called for the possibility of participation of students in an in-depth examination. It has happened in other years, in 2014, 2015, 2017 for social reasons - it is obvious for everyone - but also for reasons of equivalence, because there are differences between seniors, because the departments have dealt with this problem differently. We therefore call on those who have completed their normal schooling, and of course have done the necessary six months, to be given the opportunity to examine them in the winter and in the spring of each academic year for what lessons they are required. It is very critical in these circumstances. We have also tabled two amendments concerning duty-free, inappropriate and irresponsible aid granted by regions, through the NRP, to small and medium-sized enterprises. It is very critical at this particular moment of time. It is the only way they can cover their operating costs and we think that we need to ensure that the whole of this amount is incomprehensible and that no withholding tax or offsetting is imposed. We have also tabled another amendment, which is to maintain the obligation to publish public declarations and notices in the regional and local press. It shall expire on 31 December 2020. It is very important for transparency and information. It is necessary and necessary for the sustainability of hundreds of regional and local newspapers. It is urgent and there is no budgetary commitment not to maintain this - universally and definitively - obligation to publish declarations in the press. I shall end with an amendment that I have tabled personally. It is for the Rizario Foundation, which is a very important institution, with the unique art school in Greece in Monodendri Zagori, with infrastructure and a structured curriculum. But there is one problem. They want to move forward and strengthen the region significantly, creating an IEK. However, there needs to be an amendment to the existing Law of 2012, because it makes it a criterion of exclusion not to participate in the administration of an active civil servant. I note here that the Rizarian Foundation is run by ten life-long members, in the present composition and is involved by an active professor of the National Technical University of Athens. This is very important. It is a ready-made structure, it helps the region to join the skills society, and I would ask that there be a derogation from this specific restriction on the public service status of members of the administrative boards and representatives. Of course, since the cumulative obligations apply to the subject of apprenticeships, the purpose and objectives of these institutions, according to their organization, the establishment and operation of IEK will be fully and exclusively covered by the Foundation's budget and the students will not pay tuition fees. We consider this to be very crucial for the region and it has been sent to us all and to the Minister from the Rizario Foundation and we invite her to accept it because it is very important. I will stop here because you have given me twice as much time, Mr President, and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u297	I have the impression that you should not have a point of order now. Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u298	May I speak, Mr. President, from the Step?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u299	No, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u300	To take off the mask, because I'm in trouble.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u301	If you have a problem, then just yes, speak from Stepma. Otherwise, when time is short, you speak from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u302	I know, Mr. President. I asked to be able to take off the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u303	The rapporteur, Mr Fotilila, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't mean to say a word, the truth is, but there were some things I can't leave unanswered. I heard, for example, from my fellow citizen, Mr Marcus, that when he beats! - SYRIZA will come back to power, restore excellence. We knew SYRIZA doesn't want excellence because it's a relic. At least that is what the previous speaker from Mr Philadelphia, the Minister for Education, Mr Baltas, told us and supported it. Mr. Marcus tells us he'll bring her back. Decide and tell us. In any case, it doesn't matter very much, because you're not going to have the opportunity to do anything again. Mr Marku also told us that young people at the age of 16 are children - that is scientific, scientists said so - and as children we have to deal with them. In other words, it wants to say that obviously at the age of sixteen they do not yet have basic knowledge and basic education, they do not have the right culture, they do not have the absolute maturity and we must protect them. But you legislate that at sixteen young people vote, decide on the fate of the country, that is, they are men. In the end, what is it? Are these sixteen years old? Whenever it suits us, they're kids, and whenever it suits us, they're men? Decide, because we need to know too. Mr. Philie, I have here the plan, the program for the 2016 SYRIZA National Qualifications Framework. It's what you testified to in the Minutes. Nice! What did you say? Holistic, rich, etc. Can we take a look at him? Not at first, we should go to the changeovers. These fines have been closed homes after all. What do the changeovers say? They say: "The National Qualifications Framework - what you submitted in the Minutes - is expected to be institutionalised by a Presidential Decree, which will be issued, on a proposal from the Ministry of Education, at the suggestion of the EEA. The Presidential Decree will lay down the conditions for the formulation and implementation of the National Qualifications Framework, in particular those relating to matters relating to it. The National Register of Qualifications will be further developed, in accordance with the European Skills Classification specifications and after the Presidential Decree has been issued, an updated version of the National Qualifications Framework will be presented.’ I'm sorry, let me get this straight, all this stuff we've been talking about? There's nothing wrong with this! Therefore, what you have tabled is not a piece of legislation. It has no legal force but it is a declaration of will, I would say. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] In this country you know, there are ways we legislate, but among them there is no declaration of will. For anyone who has a question, let's take it - Mr. Friends has submitted it anyway - to see if it is institutionalised. He says it inside, it's not a matter. I'm gonna leave the jokes and the humor, and I'm gonna close up with something that can't afford a sense of humor or anything. Two words for the Greek German Youth Foundation. In attracting my origin from the martyristic Kalavry, I would be the last to agree - let alone I would vote - any agreement at first, which would undermine the fair requirements of either the Greek state or the Greek citizens who have been affected by Nazi crimes. That is why I thoroughly studied the agreement before I decided to defend it. The data are as follows. The contract signed by both states - and indeed by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Education with regard to the Greek side - stipulates, firstly, that it has nothing to do with the question of German allowances. Secondly, that both States, whenever they consider it appropriate or useful, have the right to withdraw from the Convention and to dismantle the agreement and even unnecessarily. That's the data. However, let us go beyond the data and speak frankly, because this is not an issue of micro-party interest. Germany's position was and is stable the same. It refuses its obligation to compensate the Greek State. That has not changed, but this attitude of the German governments has not affected us, nor has it ever made us resign from our fair demands. On the other hand, with a proposal from the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, it has been decided by a large majority that the Greek Government will continue to fight until vindication. Therefore, those who have voted in favour of the agreement, at least in principle, and particularly SYRIZA who signed the contract, are not entitled to say - because I have heard it - that if Germany does not expressly accept its obligation to pay compensation from Nazi crimes, we should retreat and terminate the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u305	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u306	I shall conclude, Mr President. If SYRIZA believes this, why did he not make it as a prerequisite for signing the agreement and says it now, where are we pre-finished events? I said again, ladies and gentlemen, that no one has the right to exploit and use the pain of their relatives. I only close with one thought. Do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that the vast majority of German youth really know in all its dimensions the crime committed by their grandparents in Kalavrita, Distomo, in all the martyr villages? They don't know, probably. This institution enables us to make sure that Germans learn the crimes of Nazism in our country, take them to Kalevryta, to Distomo, to see closely, to feel, to smell, to feel the pain caused by their ancestors in these places. Then perhaps - perhaps - they feel and understand the unjust attitude of their rulers and perhaps they ask themselves to defend the fair demands of the Greek state and of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u307	Mr President, a personal matter has been raised by Mr Fotella and I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u308	If there's a personal matter, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u309	I submitted the full text of the National Training and Training Plan established by the SYRIZA Government in 2016. The European Commission has praised, particularly the issue of the new PESF principle, and it has begun to apply. The typical issue to which he refers has no substance. It was applied on the basis of the agreement of the European Union. One of this. The second issue. I find myself in a difficult position to say that I have contacted the Rectors' Committee again...
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u310	You said that, Mr. Philly.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u311	I have the full text of the decision, which I shall be tabling in the House, to be in the Minutes. It's what I said. It disagrees with Articles 43 and 44 that the Committee of the Rectors should be withdrawn. I ask the Minister to tell us what he has done if he has any communication. I'm done. Another matter came up now. The interpretation of the scientific chambers, the Chamber of Technical Chamber, with which I contacted the President, Mr Stasinos, comes an amendment that bypasses, effectively abolishes the Technical Chamber and other chambers. It's the amendment, Article 1....
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u312	Mr Philly, before you said there was a personal matter, and that is why I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u313	This is where we are surprised by bad legislation. Thousands of people, engineers, economists and others. They're abolishing their profession now. They enter college graduates without any agreement. Isn't that important? They're making laws out of people's prerogatives at night? Is that possible? "Friends" to collegegirls all the time? One with the IKUs, two with colleges, who now recognize them as professional rights? Society's shouting. I'm on it again. I have the agreement of the President-in-Office, and I mention it. I have the agreement of the President of the TEI.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u314	That's the fourth time you've said it. I would like to thank Mr. Buga and Mrs. Bakadima for making accurate time of protology alone. Because there is fatigue - here next to me are chosen colleagues from the staff of the House, who are fighting day and night in such difficult circumstances - I asked them and do not use any dentistry, and Mrs Bakadima and Mr Buga thirteen minutes have spoken. As I said then to Mrs Bakadima, she's not even on the edge of the statistical error. Madam Minister, you have the floor. If you want, you can come to Stepma too, see you better and take off the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u315	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, on a point of order. I do not know what Mr Friends says about the evening, but the amendments have been tabled since 3 p.m. It's six, seven pages. I'm talking about something Mrs. Kefalidou said, maybe. On the basis of the new legislative framework, which has been passed for a long time, Mr Phile, you will have extensive explanations to facilitate precisely all Members of Parliament on the arrangements. It's from noon. I referred to them and this afternoon. I don't know why you're lying about being filed at night. I now come to some points which have been said today. SYRIZA said we chose to legislate haste and surprise. So, how has it been in a hurry? This is a piece of legislation that we have presented in 2018 and has been working for fourteen months intensively. All institutions have said so that they have discussed this bill with the Ministry of Education one by one. They've embedded it in their comments. There is, however, another very interesting element here. SYRIZA refused to come to the dialogue. We invited him and he didn't come here to discuss the bill. So all these discussions are pretextful.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u316	Is anybody here? You've been talking to yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u317	I have been sent a letter and messages, I have spoken with Mr. Friend in person and he has told me that 'Let's leave it. Let's be clear and get to the bottom of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u318	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u319	Mr. Philly, don't interrupt. You may not agree, but do not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u320	Don't lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u321	I'm lying that we sent you a letter to come into dialogue? I'm lying, Mr. Friend? You want us to file the letter we sent you for a dialogue? Can I show the messages he sent me, Mr. Friend?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u322	Of course, I'll answer right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u323	So SYRIZA didn't come into dialogue. His right, obviously. It was, however, invited to a dialogue. Right to choose not to come. I note that SYRIZA has devoted about a third of his speech to issues that are generally not related to the bill, and I would like to make a reference to what was said by the SYRIZA rapporteur, even though he was also told by the Commission, concerning cuts in education expenditure. I would remind you that in the budget voted a few days ago the New Democracy Government increased its education expenditure by EUR 142 million. In the budget ten thousand five hundred teachers were appointed permanently, voted by SYRIZA and the other parties. There was an increase in university operational expenditure. Income support has been provided for families with children studying away from the permanent residence. Increase in housing allowance. Increase in the financing of IATAP. Two hundred additional million in the public investment programme to strengthen the two-year pre-school system, which you started and did well, and we, for the full day, continued to incorporate children with disabilities, to strengthen our schools with teachers, specialist educational staff and assistants, with psychologists and social workers. I'm coming to the issue of service councils. The provision is clear and provides for the participation of elected representatives. What makes me very surprised is that, obviously, SYRIZA decided to oppose the electronic vote. However, he voted 'no' to the amendment that had been tabled on this matter. He voted 'no' on this subject, but at night he decided to turn it into 'no' in electronic voting. Prolongation of the term of office of the constituents, while the elections have been held. I want to ask and repeat. Where does the Minister of Education say he defines? It is not said by the Minister of Education. That's not what this thing says. A little more attention. They are training staff, it is not the Minister of Education who designates teachers' representatives, if they do not want the elected representatives to participate. Let's highlight this. We are only talking about the situation where the elected representatives do not want to participate. We can't beat them up, obviously. There is therefore a procedure for this particular case. The provision, however, expressly provides for the participation of members in the association of the services councils. I come to another subject, which has also been discussed in detail in the committee, at the OPCW. I asked SYRIZA - and Mrs Kefalidou also - to tell me exactly where it is predicted to be at level 4. Where does he say that to whose law?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u324	On the EEA's official page.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u325	In other words, I ask you: what legislation does level 4 provide for? And the answer is that, in fact, there is no provision. Put your hands up! I've got top lawyers here, too. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 467a]] On the other hand, are there any explicit provisions that they say? And they say good. That if you graduate from an OAED school - and quite rightly so - you can then join the second class of the PAEL, which leads you to level 4. But if you're already on level 4, will you call level four again? I think it's clear. I come to something that has been said and is of special interest. Although this was not the case with the bill, SYRIZA mentioned school issues and we heard proposals: No exams. Don't be the Subject Bank. Last year SYRIZA said not to open the schools. SYRIZA's youth, if I remember correctly, said not to become the pan-Hellenic. Equivalence! Close the schools, go home, don't bother, open them in a year. I am sorry, but we are not going that way, because we are also concerned about the protection of public health, but it is also the unavoidable continuation of the educational process. I will take one of the suggestions that have been heard from this Step earlier today. It was said by a SYRIZA official earlier: Why don't you do the double shifts, 8.00' -12.00', 12.00' - 16.00'? To demonstrate exactly how far there is no detailed documentation for these views, I will say this: Good, 8.00' -12.00', 12.00' - 16.00'. So, the parents are gonna work 9:00 at 11:00 till the kid gets to school, then go back to work, come back to pick up the kid? So, basically, they'll be working at 9:00 with 11:00. Second question: Who is going to take the child else? Grandpa and Grandma, those who want to protect first and foremost, and for that very reason we have made huge efforts with the State Secretary to extend the full-day school to reduce - as hard as it may sound - the contact of the most vulnerable people, vulnerable groups, grandparents and grandparents with children. So, with this solution, and Grandpa goes and takes the child and the parent cannot work - the hours are limited - and furthermore, the full day cannot be implemented and the teachers who have multiple assignments cannot work either. This is an example of how SYRIZA throws a firework without any documentation from the back. SYRIZA said again: “We are interested by the teachers at universities, not by anything else.” I should therefore like to inform the House of the following: in the last few months, only five hundred members of the MAGP have been given fifty-fifths of membership to strengthen our universities with human resources. Two hundred and eighty-four posts were allocated IW 407. For the first time after many years, thirty-four administrative staff, forty-five other staff seats, a allocation of EUR 2.5 million for sanitary equipment, which has already been specific, EUR 3.5 million for electronic equipment and EUR 28 million for operational costs in student restaurants. We have an increase of almost EUR 6 million for operating expenses, income support for families with children who are studying away from the permanent residence increased by 3 million in 2021, more than doubled the titles of e-university writings. I come to the subject of qualifications. Because I think it is clear what has been going on for a year - there are clear complaints, there are no requests to the clubs - I am presenting you with a document from the European Commission in order to have everything, Mr Phile. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the Archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I close with SYRIZA. I think it is very interesting that SYRIZA's decision to table a roll-call vote. What articles did he file a roll-call vote on? In the articles relating to "level 3", in these provisions that give opportunities to the most vulnerable groups, to those who want to become craftsmen, to those who have left school seeking a second chance, to learn an art and to qualify in the labour market. These are the ones that SYRIZA chose to target by roll-call vote, those people who are asking for a second chance in life and the right to get qualified in the labour market. There's been a report. I am not going to go into it because I think it is so disgraceful that I believe that the induction that could be made should not be mentioned in the House. When I mentioned that for us it is not a social elevator, there are many, there was a reference to lifts in the 1950 ’ s, which were two, says, in the buildings and one carried the tenants and the other the garbage. I do not want to indulge in what this speaker meant with this. I don't want to, because we're at the temple of democracy, and I really can't imagine this induction. I don't even want to let her go. I'm coming to the Change Movement. Mrs. Kefalidou, you're right. You have tabled a very interesting proposal. And I have read it with great pleasure, because I have seen that we agree on many points. I have seen that you are proposing a central political body with the participation of productive ministries, the social partners, the members of local government. I saw you were in agreement with the sectoral councils. I have seen that you are considering regional committees. I have seen that you are considering TEK experimental units, I have seen that you are considering a dual apprenticeship system, a paid practical exercise. That's all in the bill. I felt like I was reading the bill, Mrs. Kefalidou. Well, I ask you: Where do we disagree? Since these are your proposals, why do you vote 'no'? I ask this because I wonder whether 'no' to the bill is not 'no' on substance but 'no' on micro-political grounds? I'll tell you why I'm saying that. You did yourself - quite rightly - a reference to professional orientation and said how important you consider professional orientation. Mrs Kefalidou, I would remind you that in the article of the bill passed during the summer on professional orientation, where you are right to say how important it is, you voted against it. You voted 'no' there too. So you come here, you argue very well - we agree on very many points - but then you vote 'no'. One wonders why. I will give you a concrete example. You said 'professional orientation'. We agree. We're together. You have voted 'no' in the professional orientation. And one wonders, why did you vote 'no'? She also said Mrs Kefalidou: "We know there will be no selected training directors". That's how you told us we wouldn't bring a bill on vocational training. We've brought in and brought, Mrs. Kefalidou, specific provisions on training staff. I'm coming to a report by Mr. Delia from the JRC. He asked about infrastructure - and I thank him very much for the question - about vocational education structures. As we have made public, we have tabled a proposal to the Recovery Fund for EUR 120 million specifically to strengthen laboratories in vocational education and training structures. We agree that this is a very important part. These laboratories are a fundamental element of these structures and we absolutely want to strengthen them. You referred to the local recruitment system. As I said to the Commission, it is a process that has been taking place for many years. In order to meet the necessary guarantees and in particular the control of the CSCE, this provision has come. What's she predicting? It provides for the exhaustion of the table. So first you go and cover the whole table and only if the panel is exhausted, you can go and make local calls under the control of the ADP, as provided in the layout. And this was done in order to heal what SYRIZA had done with local calls without the framework of the ASP. I come to something the Greek Solution said. He asked about the EPPC's exams. Mrs Asimakopoulou, I would like to inform you that the examinations by the EEAC will be carried out at least once a year, as has been established, and also the examinations for the Post-Medal Year - Class of Learning are planned in principle for the end of January. There will be an announcement in the near future. Of course, this is COVID, I would say. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President. Thank you very much. And I would like to thank all my colleagues. I think there has been an exhaustive debate for too many hours. I think they spoke more than 20 Members in committees. It has been a very extensive debate here. I would first like to thank the Members, but also the social actors who have given us valuable comments, many of which have already been incorporated. I would like to say here, in passing, that Mrs Kefalidou, you have tabled an amendment on people with disabilities. Provisions have already been incorporated through legislative improvements. We agree on many points. The provisions have already been incorporated in this direction in order to protect people with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religion is finalised: ‘National System of Vocational Training, Training and Lifelong Learning, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on the control of proportionality prior to the establishment of a new legislative framework for the professions (OJ L 173, ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the Hellenic German Youth Foundation and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. Articles 9, 10, 11 and 123 of the draft law have applied for a roll-call vote by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u327	I will not read out the list of signatories for the roll-call request, because due to the special circumstances, we consider that there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for their submission. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten minutes (10 minutes), in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u328	The sitting shall be resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on Articles 9, 10, 11 and 123 of the draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u329	I would like to inform you that letters and fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, to which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u330	Once you have finished, please close the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u331	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the articles. A total of 299 Members voted. Article 9: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. 'The present', no one voted. Article 9 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 10: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 167 Members. Against this article, the 132 Members voted against. 'The present', no one voted. Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 11: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against this article, i.e. 'NO', they voted 141 Members. 'The present', no one voted. Article 11 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 123: In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 167 Members. Against this article, the 132 Members voted against. 'The present', no one voted. Article 123 was therefore accepted as it is by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u332	At the end of the roll-call vote, we proceed to vote on the principle, the rest of the articles, amendments and the entire bill. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to be included in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u333	Following the completion of the nominal electronic vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: ‘National System of Vocational Education, Training and Lifelong Learning, incorporation into Greek legislation of Directive (EU) 2018/958 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on the control of proportionality prior to the adoption of a new legislative framework for the professions (OJ L 173), ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the Hellenic German Youth Foundation and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles and the whole of it:
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u334	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u335	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-12-17-S1-commons.u336	With the consent of this House at 22.05 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, December 18, 2020 at 9 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
