ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 30-1-2020 authorisation, its minutes of Thursday 30 January 2020, with regard to voting in all draft laws, were ratified by the Bureau: 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America on consular privileges and immunities’.]] Every year such days the minds of all Greeks travel to the events of the night of Imia. The fall of the Navy helicopter and the loss of its three personnel were, in a way, the tragic 'optional' of the events that were unfolded at that critical night. After twenty - four years the memories remain alive. The Imian crisis gave Turkey the opportunity to raise the issue of 'grain zones' in the Aegean Sea and to add another to the agenda for Greek-Turkish disputes. But, as the Prime Minister of the country pointed out, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the Greeks are sending the clear message that there are no "grey zones". Our country's sovereign rights are unnegotiable. Finally, I ask that we observe a minute's silence in the memory of the fallen heroes, Officers of our Navy, Lieutenant Christodoulou Karathanassis, Lieutenant Panagiotis Vlahakos and Significant Hector Gialosos, who have been sacrificed for their homeland. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] Their memory is eternity! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday 3 February 2020. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 429/27-1-2020 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr Marios Katsis, to the Minister of Digital Governance, on "Shopping, Dismissals and Depreciation of ELTAs". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 412/22-1-2020, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Alyto remains the building problem of the schools affected by the 19 July earthquake in the Municipality of Aigaleo". 3. The number 436/28-1-2020 is a topical question by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Papastastasis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The establishment of the Vonitsas Special Elementary School with permanent educational and special staff". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Halkidiki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Syria Malama to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "The need for immediate action to repatriate Greek seafarers in Djibouti". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 432/28-1-2020 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance, entitled “In the air”, a thousand hundred and thirty employees in the ELTAs. 3. The Question No 416/23-1-2020 by the Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The granting of a single and undivided postgraduate degree to graduates from the Department of Music of the Ionian University". 4. The question under number 437/28-1-2020 of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Strengthening and upgrading of the OAED Institution Professional Schools (EPAS)". 5. The question by number 442/28-1-2020 of the Deputy Drama of the Change Movement Mr.Charulas (Haras) Kefalidou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "What is your government's plan and national strategy for improving education in our country?" 6. The question under number 397/20-1-2020 is a topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Skouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Several reactions of Greek creators for the policy of copyright of the Ministry of Culture and Sport". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 400/21-1-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The developments surrounding copyright of composers and stigmatists." 8. The Question No 384/15-1-2020 by H' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Southern Athens Section of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafa to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Urgent resolution of problems in the process of appointments". 9. The Question No 405/21-1-2020 by MP B2' West Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Resolution of the building problem of the schools affected by the July earthquake in Aegeleo and Petroupolis". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Larissa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Evaluation of the Larissa Agricultural School's Avery". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House: ‘We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent questions in connection with Parliamentary Control on Friday 31 January 2020 that: The numbers. Questions Nos 399/21-1-2020 and 423/27-1-2020 on topical questions addressed to the Minister of Finance Mr Christos Staikos will not be answered because of lack of competence. No. No. Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis will not be answered because of lack of competence. The topical and urgent questions to be discussed are as follows: The numbers. Questions Nos 402/21-1-2020 and 428/27-1-2020 2369/42-2019 question (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis. No. No. 2813/23-12-2019 question (under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis. No. No. 403/21-1-2020 current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Apostolos Vessiropoulos. No. No. 401/21-1-2020 current question will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection Mr Eleftherios Economou. The numbers. 396/20-1-2020, 413/22-1-2020, 417/23-1-2020, 434/28-1-2020, 440/28-1-2020 and 441/28-1-2020 Please take the appropriate steps to inform both the President-in-Office and the honourable Members of the proceedings. The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis". So we now move on to the debate on the first under number 2813/23-2-2019 question of the cycle of petitions - questions, Members of SYRIZA Mr Panagios (Giota) Pavlou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'Paid delays in the payment of public investment finances'. It will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis. Mrs Pulou has the floor to develop her question for two minutes in her prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am not the first Member to have asked questions about delays in the payment of project funding from the Public Investment Programme. A final question I had tabled on 16 December 2019 and was signed by many - more than twenty - MPs specifically mentioned the overall delays in the absorption of the Public Investment Programme, but specifically two SAE, SAE 571, which is for 'Repeated Actions', and SAE 071 for 'Bridges', where significant delays had occurred over the eight-month period in the payment of accounts, with a risk, as we all know, of abandoning or waiving the construction of projects by many construction companies. I would therefore like you to reply to us, because there has been another malfunction in the payment system, because in other words, an earlier practice of signing by administrative bodies and not by you, which has also added a delay. While the procedures were running out in twenty days, we are talking about delays more than two months ago. I would therefore like you to reply to us where these delays in payments are due and where we are now, because we have, unfortunately, found that in 2019 it was closed with a significant delay in the Public Investment Programme, and how you intend to tackle the issues of bureaucracy from now on and on, as well as the facilitation of these accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u3	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis, has the floor for his reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand the attempt made by the Opposition - and this is its role - to identify allegedly mistakes and omissions of the present government. But here we are at a point where we really try to do the white one, black one. I start with a more general comment, which shows the absorption of the PPC at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport in the first half of 2019, which will be compared to the performance and absorption in the second half of 2019. In the first half of 2019, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport was able to absorb only 35% of the budget, that is, 76m euros. In the second half of 2019, i.e. when the government changed, absorption went to 65%, i.e. to 138 million euros. These numbers, I think, speak for themselves. So we see too many times that you come and create a virtual reality to justify your own things, your own inadequacy, especially in the transport and infrastructure sector, where you have not really left any - but no maturity of studies. In this context, therefore, your question is also invoked when you allegedly call for delays in the payment of funding. Let's go see the specific CSR you're referring to. In the text of your question, you refer to two AAEs, namely, to understand - and those who are following us - two collective project decisions, the 071 roads and bridges and the 571 on recurring roads. So let's see what we did in this space for these two codes. There was an absorption in the range of 98% for 071, while for 571 there was a absorption of 98%. Totals of the two county projects on the present political leadership of the Ministry of Transport were absorbed almost EUR 31 million, and in your own period this amount was less than EUR 27 million, i.e. 3 million less. Fortunately, therefore, and I think the conclusions are clear - not only there have been no delays, not only have there been no interruptions, but the absorption of the EDP has increased and the more general figures I have mentioned at the beginning of my speech and in relation to these two specific codes. I will submit detailed tables of details in their minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mrs. Pulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it is certainly not the opposition intention on our part to write from many construction companies. And you should know that I was a mayor in the previous term and therefore I am very well aware of the funding and the repayment of the projects. Therefore, it is not our idealism, but it is a reality, which is also expressed in the tables, in the final tables for the Public Investment Programme and also for the ESDP at the end of 2019. It is true, we all know that in the first half of the year there is always a significant delay in the payment of projects. And, of course, all this delay comes in the last month of November and December, where usually a 70% reduction in the repayment of projects takes place at the end of each year. So I would say that you have created a negative record: firstly, there is a missing ECU 1.1 billion. from the Public Investment Programme for 2019. The tables say that in the first half of 2019 it ranged to 1,473,000. In other words, you have found a situation of about 500,000,000 more than in the first half of 2018. However, at the end of the year you closed down with a negative of 850,000 000. These aren't ideas, they're numbers, they're paintings. And we're wondering, because you've changed everything, and that's an idea of yours. "Philodimos I", "Philodimos II", which were breathworks for the municipalities of the country, you see they've been delayed. We do not yet know - and the administration of the first and second degrees are concerned about these important projects - what you are going to do in relation to them. You also know that there was a lack of money from the regional funds. For the first time now, only 1/3 of the money has unfortunately entered your regional funds, 250,000 000, and this is also a record of recent years. So please answer them. Do not think that any question to the government has the political controversy behind it. These are issues relating to the manufacturers of the country. These are issues relating to self-government, which are very important projects at local level and, in any case, it turns out to be important for the incomes of Greeks and for unemployment. These are all the consequences when we do not perform the projects in time, but they are not paid back in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u7	Minister Constantine Karamanlis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u8	I think my prototype obviously did not understand what I told you. I understand the arguments you have, but these arguments are totally, but completely wasteful, because in the two specific projects to which you have referred, I have shown you that more money has been spent than what you have absorbed. With regard to your argument that the first half of a year is less absorption than the second, you are absolutely right. But 35% with 65% is no less, it's double. In fact, you are talking about a SYRIZA government, which in 2019 was in the fourth year of its governance. The New Democracy Government in the first half of the year therefore succeeded and absorbed the MAGP. But here I am given the opportunity to say that there is really an incredible trend towards distortion of reality, because when we went to the Ministry and when most of the ministers went to the ministries, we thought that the absorption we had was what you said: Five in the NRP. We're sixteen. And we are not talking about this, the European Commission's figures say it. It's known. They're everywhere. But what we have to understand is that, because of the economic crisis, we all understand that the PPP has been cut. That's the reality. We, as opposition to this criticism, did you. But you did something that is excellent. No, you just cut off the EDP, but you weren't absorbing it. From the already cut-off PPP we had and for which everyone was shouting why the Public Investment Programme is so reduced, you finally left money that you could not secure. At this point, however, I think it is understandable that we need to understand that there is another RDP, which is called co-financed RDP. Here you give me the opportunity to say that it is important that we now be able to absorb funds from the co-financed PPP, because it is about an important issue of absorption. You know that in the Public Investment Programme, each Minister has the right to give money where he thinks he should give. In the co-financed PPC, where the Greek economy is involved on its national side, we must obtain the approval of the relevant European institutions. This government has to absorb the PPPs, it has to overcome your ideal in PPPs, in the last five years you have been the worst government and you have had the lowest absorptions, so we now have to try to absorb money from the European funds. I shall end with another example showing the size - and I am sorry to say it - of the hypocrisy of the so-called Radical Left. You have spoken about Egnatia, about rail projects, about 'Française' projects, about linking the railways with the Balkans. So here's what you've done in these four years on absorption issues: 200 thirty-five million absorption over four and a half years. Now see what the 'exploited' government of Samara - Venizelos in 2012-2014 has done which, as we will all remember, the country's economic situation was much worse. ERGOSE’s absorption at that time was 1,4 billion euros. He's here next to me, and Mr. Hatzidakis, who was the head of the ministry at the time. Therefore, it is good when you come to this Chamber and you are pulling our fingers on how we are absorbing funds either from the Public Investment Programme or from European funds, to come more read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u10	No provision is made, Mrs. Pulou. You can come back with another question.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u11	Nor is the Minister predicted to speak for five minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, my colleague, Mr Anastassios Bartzokas, is calling for a foreign leave for February 5 and 6. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u13	The House therefore approved the requested permission. The following three topical questions will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Konstantinos Hatzidakis. The first question will be discussed under No 428/27-1-2020 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorous, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Home dozens of landowners". Mr. Buquoore, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I know that you are very concerned about the issue that we are going to discuss today and of course about the impact of Law 4467/2017 on the suspension of forest maps. You know, of course, that tens of thousands of fellow citizens have appealed to the committees of obvious mistakes and objections. If I read correctly, it's about a hundred and twenty - seven thousand these applications. I also learned that at a meeting of service actors at your Ministry, you sarcasically said that at these rates in twenty-seven years we will have finished the examination of these applications. I therefore understand that you are concerned about the issue of the regulation of this matter. But, Minister, until this legislation comes into effect, there are many problems. At the rate that is being examined - with these turtle rates - the obvious mistakes and objections from interested parties, we have some people who are entitled to them. But a gift in vain! Because the result of the committee is not reflected in the forest map. I think that we can well conclude that this is because decentralised administrations do not compile and sign the necessary administrative instruments so that the results of the committees are reflected in the maps. So we are faced with the sad phenomenon of many of our fellow citizens, hundreds of them, and thousands of them will be in the next period of time, to be justified, but to remain unjust, because they cannot transfer their rights, with great consequences for their lives. This, of course, is a development which affects the core of the right to property. We would therefore like you to tell us today how you are considering dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u15	The Minister, Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Buquore, it is undeniable that crimes have been committed in connection with the protection of the country's forest wealth. I also think that every year, either because of negligence or because of arsonism, we are - unfortunately - all witnesses of forest fires, further destruction of forest wealth at the expense of the country's course, at the expense of the future of our children. That is why the protection of forests is very high on the agenda of the Government and Prime Minister personally. The drawing-up of forest maps is certainly a positive task, because there is a record of what is not and what is not forests, there are clear rights, both public and private, that the conditions are created for fuller protection of the environment, but also for a sustainable development of the country with investments and activities which will not be carried out at the expense of the environment and forests. That is why, from the beginning, I welcomed the fact that the previous government has decided to draw up and proceed with the forest maps without any sign of micropsy. I said it then, I repeat it now. This, however, is other than dealing with problems which are too many and which you rightly point out in your question. I don't know if I have time to talk about everything now. I can fill in my answer to my dentistry. However, it is true that there is too late an examination of the objections. You are not right that there are a hundred and twenty-five thousand objections that have been raised. It is a hundred and seventy thousand objections throughout the country, which reflects - if you like - the chaos that our forests have to face, because there is no solid ground for drawing up forest maps, because of the complex legislative framework and the various ministerial decisions that have been adopted at times in relation to the characterisation of forests. And so we had a hundred and seventy thousand objections to about 50% of the country where forest maps have been drawn up. We have people who have land that has been cultivating for decades and suddenly saw that the public is questioning their fields. At the same time, we had in two years in 2018 and 2019 the examination of how much you say of the hundreds of seventy thousand objections? Only ten thousand objections have been raised, which means that if I leave things as they go, and as they have done in the last two years, the discussion of the objections to 50% of the country will be completed in twenty-seven years. Make the calculations. This cannot be considered a serious European democracy. Obviously, we are determined to intervene both on the issue of speed on the range, namely what is considered and what is not an area on the forest maps and also on the matter of the hostage to which you have referred. The law provides today - believe it or not - that if you are entitled to an objection to forest maps you must wait for all those who have objected to the wider region to judge their affairs, so that you can use your property. This is an expropriation of ownership which we cannot tolerate. However, since I speak four and a half minutes and the President will make an observation, I will return to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Bukokouros has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u18	Minister, I really am speechless about the new elements you add and they weren't known to me. Indeed, we are facing a huge problem, and I sincerely hope that you and your services will be able to find the appropriate, best solutions to close this hostage problem of tens of thousands of our fellow citizens. There is no doubt at all, Minister, that there must be a forestry environmental policy from an organised state which respects itself that respects its citizens and, above all, has good expectations of the future of the country. This is another issue and we are very confident that your Ministry with its policies will protect the Greek forest, but we need to protect other people's rights, such as the one you mentioned. They are the rights of participation in the economic development of the country, the property rights and all that you have said. I think that beyond any legislative arrangements it would be a duty of the Greek public administration, perhaps with a ministerial decision or with any other legislative instrument chosen by your Ministry, the people who have been justified to date - those of these ten thousand to whom you referred and whom we have already enclosed since the start of the appeals for objections, two and three years - to give them the opportunity to seal what they were entitled to. Many of them have a problem with economic survival. To be captured in the forest map of which they were justified. Minister, you are right to say that there was chaos because in 4467/2017 the law on the suspension of forest maps also has a number of other problems. It is a law that breaks down part of the Council of State which means that it was a necessary piece of legislation, but it was not a proper piece of legislation. That proves things. In any case, I hope that in your dentext, we will hear more good news. I am pleased that you are concerned to this extent with this major issue. I want you to know, Minister, that if at 50% of the suspension of forest maps we are facing such problems, think if you do not do preventive work, with the legislation that you have actually announced, what we will face at 100%. I think it is an issue that concerns the Greek region very strongly and a productive part of Greek society, such as the rural world, which should not be prevented from producing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u19	The Minister has the floor, Mr Hatzidakis, for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u20	Mr Bukkoro, we will soon do three things in relation to the subject of your question: two with a draft law which will be discussed at the Ministerial Council in February and, after consultation has taken place, it will be discussed and voted on, I hope, in the House in March and the third, by a ministerial decision. With the bill, we will firstly provide for an increase in the committees of objections and for their remuneration to be linked to the number of objections they consider, in order to go practically and not to go into a committee and'sufficient', just waiting for it to be paid and as long as work is done in the future. So it's a very reasonable approach, in view of the many defenceless citizens. The second intervention, which is to be made, is what you say in your question. The draft law will provide that if any citizen's objection is considered and is justified by the opposition committee, then it will automatically be able to use his property, as he thinks, and as the legislation provides, without waiting for it to end, for example, in all Magnesia, the examination of the objections, so that he can do whatever his field wants or which he or she owns. This is an absurdity, which will end. We cannot expropriate the property of our fellow citizens in this way. And thirdly, with a ministerial decision, it will have to do with the range of forest maps, because today there are clear cases where we are not dealing with forest land, and yet the laws for reasons of fundamentalism of forests, I cannot describe it differently, consider that we are talking about forests. I will speak with examples, and I will speak with examples, so that everyone does not fly, who thinks he has an opinion on the forest and take it out without knowing why he is speaking. We are talking about reafforestation, reafforestation areas in the country, and the state has signed that they are fields, that they are rural areas. We who are the public, have to decide. Does he have the Greek public policy schizophrenia and at the same time believe they are fields, but also forests? We're just one organism called Greek public. If you have given farmers for years a region that has been resurrected and cultivated, you cannot remember after thirty, fifty, eighty years that it is forest when people get subsidies from the European Union all these years, grow etc. We can't go with fiction creatures, it's not a serious treatment. The same happens in other cases. I'm from Rethymnon. I see Mr. Blonde, I see Mr. Kegeroglu from Heraklion. You know the geography of Rethymnon. I'm told that 67% of Rethymno has been called a forest. Where is this forest hiding and we don't see it? Because, the decisions of previous ministers - many years, I have not only been talking about the last few years - provide that if a field is in, what we know in Crete, asparagus and ashes in 15% are considered as a forest area. It's not. It's not! And I say it because we finally have to put some things in order, protect the forest, do what we can. We're planning a national reafforestation plan. We'll be strict in relation to the arbitrary in the woods. We'll do all this, but we won't fight windmills. Greek democracy cannot behave as a Don Quixote and fight against nonexistent enemies. Well, we will talk here, and I hope that all the wings will be persuaded to move in this direction, because we will not talk with theories, we will speak with facts and with photos, and we will decide on real data unless parties, as in the case of the Greek, believe that cement is a forest. We do not believe it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u21	The fourth question under number 392/20-1-2020 of the Second-Category of the Parliament and MP Arcadia of the Change Movement, Mr. Odyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In the red clinic of the Panarcadian Hospital, the Paediatric Surgery Department is closed" will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. Also, the ninth under number 410/21-1-2020 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Tryphoon Alexiadis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Definition of General Manager of the House of Appeal for Economic Crime" will not be discussed due to the Member's impediment. At this point we continue the debate with the tenth Question No 402/21-1-2020 on the second time question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25, Kritonas (Ilias) Arsenis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Direct termination of contracts for the extraction of hydrocarbons following the findings of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection 2000'. Mr. Arsenis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I would like to make a little comment in the previous debate. You are just right about the part of your objections, but it is very worrying what you described about changing the framework you want in the institutional maps. In fact, I would ask you to look at this very carefully, because I think that you are right about the objections, there are many issues and they need to be corrected in the direction you say, but the other question of what is woods I fear will open up the coast of Halos that you will not be able to handle. Our question is the environment again. We have an institution, the GLOBAL 2000 Commission. It is an advisory body of the State with an institutional role, whose members are also appointed by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy and which comes and tells us that after a long, systematic and in-depth investigation of the impact on the Greek nature of the exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons from the territory of Greece, it considers that mining will be a great threat, as it goes to the Greek nature, there will be a serious deterioration in the framework of the protection of NATURA 2000 areas, considers it necessary to complete an appropriate assessment already from the research stage, emphasises that the economic activities of the wider areas, particularly tourism and primary production, considers that there should be an explicit ban on exploration of slate gas, and that there are significant deficiencies in concessions and environmental control contracts and considers the obligation to carry out an environmental impact study in the case of seismic research and the removal of general references, such as environmental action plans and rules for official research and technical exploitation of hydrocarbons. It is precisely upside down on what we are doing and I would really like to say with respect to the institutions of this state, it is no longer an environmental organisation, it is the official body of the state that deals with the protection of the NATURA 2000 areas and the environment, that we must respond, we must change course and stop these mining.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u23	The Minister has the floor, Mr Kostis Hatzidakis, for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u24	For your forests we want with us, because we are going to make an intervention of common sense. We are not going to destroy, we are going to protect the forests, the actual forests, but without punishing the citizens with a theater of irrationality played by the Greek state for decades. We will also apply existing legislation on definition. We are not going to bring any other legislation, precisely because there have been excesses from people who have sometimes worked with a species, as I have said before, forest or forest fundamentalism, which has nothing to do with reality. From there on, I come to the point of your question. I took note of the Commission document Nature 2000 on 26 November 2019, when it was sent to my office. However, as specified in the accompanying letter, Mr Arsenis, the text is limited to issues relating to the natural environment without addressing the positive or negative impact of research and mining on the economic, technical, social or geostrategic level. Having said that, I want to add the following. The exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in Greece is under strict environmental protection measures in any region of the country protected or not. You are right to raise the issue of environmental protection in relation to research into hydrocarbons. And I will be the last to say that the environmental aspect must not be dealt with. But at the same time we have to admit that, not with me as Minister, with all my predecessors - both with PASOK and SYRIZA - this side was being examined and still being examined. Incorporation of environmental protection measures starts at the earliest early stage of planning a research and mining programme, using the strategic environmental assessment process. There is provision for a specific procedure for assessing and addressing environmental impacts in the mid-term phases of the programmes, by drawing up, evaluating and adopting an environmental action plan. After consultation with the competent authorities and when it concerns NATURA 2000 areas, the competent bodies are involved and this process has been implemented until now three times. At the stages of research or production drilling, the environmental licensing process is compulsory as these activities are classified in subcategory A1, i.e. in the most severe cases. Environmental licensing requires the submission of a detailed environmental impact study, again public consultation, once again application of national and Union law. Where it appears that mining operations are even slightly likely to affect the NATURA area in the context of environmental authorisation, the so-called ‘specific ecological assessment’ shall be carried out, covering the requirements of the Habitats and Birds Directives. Furthermore, the hydrocarbons research and exploitation programmes the contracts of which have been ratified by the Greek Parliament do not allow drilling to be installed within protected areas of the NATURA 2000 network and where necessary, as in the Ionian regions, an additional safety distance of one kilometre has been provided for from the limits of the protected areas. A number of provisions of Union and national law are therefore respected. We are not doing anything but doing all the other European countries and Norway, which, as you know, is a pioneer in these investigations. And I do not think that a Nordic country can also be regarded as a reduced environmental sensitivity. And that's exactly what's been done, done and done in the next few years. Yes, hydrocarbon extraction on the grounds that, if you wish, we are also talking then, but with an absolute sensitivity to the environment. Because the environment is, of course, the wealth of the country and we must protect it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u25	Mr Arsenis has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I understand you say that you are relying on the things of the previous governments. But it wasn't good. In any case, I did not come here to express just my personal opinion. I came here to read and inform with our debate and Parliament and society about what this institution of the Greek state says. You said in your previous answer that we are a state. So we have an institution, an official state advisor on environmental protection issues and, in particular, the regions, the physics 2000. It refers to what you told us and commented on. It says: "Ninety protected areas, four national parks, two parks, twenty a wildlife shelter, sixty three NATURA sites are adjacent to plots allocated to oil companies for research and mining. The only security measure envisaged relates to the protected areas on the Ionian plots, for which there is only one kilometre exclusion zone, as you have said. AND THE PHYSICAL PROTECTION 2000: "... which does not ensure effective protection of important areas and habitats and species from harmful research and mining operations." It has specific implications. It makes a great deal of analysis of the cement and documented international damage they may have, as well as of the sea turtles. It also says that although the provocation of hearing wounds which may even cause death in marine mammals are mentioned as serious in the strategic environmental impact study, their effects and proposed mitigation measures are not dealt with at the most specific level by type and region, especially as the work phase is not subject to a process of environmental impact assessment. The criticism text is too great. It is critical of your policy, regardless of whether it is yours or the previous governments alone. We're not telling you that you're original. Unfortunately, it is the same policy as the SYRIZA and all that preceded it. But it's the wrong policy. And as you dare to change other wrong policies - as you said about the issue of objections to forest maps - you must have the courage to change that too. Because it is very simple, as the 2000 Commission even notes, to say that we are being hit when nature, mammals and life at sea and on land is the basis of our economy, it is the basis for our tourism. For minimal revenue, we put our country at risk from geopolitical, security risks, at the same time as the main economic activities that sustain the insurance system and employment are at risk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they attend the meeting, after being informed of the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIZELOS", twenty-seven students and students and two teachers from the 4th Gymnasium of Gatsio (second section). The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister Kostis Hatzidakis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u28	Mr Arseni, exactly the other day I was in Paris, and among the other meetings I had, I met the Vice-President of TOTAL, Mr Cleman, who is responsible for the drilling of the company in the South-East Mediterranean, and we discussed the plots, which "TOTAL" has here for the exploration of hydrocarbons. And we also talked about the region southwest of Crete. Before I put any matter to him, alone - I must say - he has told me that he is taking special care of sea mammals in relation to any actions taken between now and the next few years, precisely because there is - and thankfully there is - great sensitivity to this issue, for the protection - of the protection - and of the sea mammals, which the previous governments have cared about and for these seismographic surveys, when they had become older than a Norwegian ship to prevent sea mammals from being affected in our own regions. Again, I am not talking about my own actions, I am talking about the actions of predecessors. Secondly, do I want to say to you - to be practical - that is something new about hydrocarbons mining in Greece? Oh, no. They started in the 1970s from Prinos of Kavala, when Greece was not a Member State of the European Union and when there was no such sensitivity to the environment, neither in Greece nor in Europe. Are the inhabitants of Kavala, Thassos, in relation to the mining? Nearly what is being done by Kavala and Thassos is not visible and Thassos tourism has not been affected at all, precisely because there are high environmental standards. So I understand sensitivity, and I have it, not only because I am Minister for the Environment, but because, in any case, we are all seeing the effects of climate change, but I think we should also set certain limits. And I think, having said this, I have to add two more elements to all those concerned and I do not want to blame them on people, they are concerned because they are sensitive to climate change. In addition to what I have said on the high standards and standards, which are the European standards, I would like to add two more elements, which I think we should bear in mind. The country now depends on its energy mix by 68% on imported hydrocarbons. We will obviously go to renewable energy sources and you know that we will go by 2030 to meet the country's energy needs at 35% of renewable energy sources and to electricity generation at 60% of renewable energy sources. But the hydrocarbons - you badly want to say? Badly - it will be here and everywhere throughout Europe for the next few decades. What are we going to do, Mr. Arseny? Will we take oil and gas from Russia, from Arabia, anywhere in the world, but if we have our own, we will say 'no, leave it there, we will give foreign currency'? I do not think it would be a wise economic decision, as anyway there will be oil and gas for the next few years. The second thing I would like to say to you is that, particularly in view of the tension that has been taking place in recent days and in recent months with Turkey, would you like to see your fans - I am not telling our own - the people who voted for you in the elections that Turkey flouts the wider region of the Southeast Mediterranean in relation to the exploration of hydrocarbons, questioning our own sovereign rights, and we should sit down and do absolutely nothing? I believe that neither our constituents nor yours, Mr Arsenis, would like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u29	We continue with the second under number 2369/4-12-2019 of the reporting cycle - questions by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To pay directly to the employees of recycling and reorganise the Material Recycling Center (CIDA) Heraklion Crete". Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President, and allow me, before my position on the question, to refer to the fallen one-fourth of a century ago, to Lieutenant Christodoulou Karathanassis, Lieutenant Panagiotis Vlahakos and Chief of Staff Hector Gialos, whom the Greek Parliament today honors. And if we really have a national shield in the future on Turkey's challenge today, on the basis of the honorary words about the fallen, we must remind ourselves of the need for national cooperation without asterisks, national understanding which is the only way and only way to formulate a stable national strategy to defend the interests of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u31	However, this honour was made by the Greek Parliament at the beginning of the meeting. Some words have been said by me and a minute’s silence has been observed, as is done every year. Keep asking yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u32	So we continue with the question, which has been tabled a long time ago as a written question. The main problem at the time was the lack of payment of workers and, of course, the operation of the centre. But, today, almost a month and a half later, we have a reality which requires that initiatives be taken by the Ministry of the Environment too, so that the Centre for the Stealing and Recycling of Heraklion can finally function. We know very well that both in the European Union's priorities and in our country's priorities must be to protect the environment, but in a specific direction that can be fruitful to the cyclical economy, so also in recycling. I believe that these initiatives by the Ministry of the Environment should aim at the immediate reopening of the centre and, of course, to upgrade its operation so that it can perform its role. At the same time, the Ministry of Labour and you as a Ministry that supervises and the recycling body in our country must take the initiative to fulfil the obligations to workers. It is very regrettable that, so long after that, workers who have a duty to remain unpaid and, of course, to see this and, in conjunction with their reopening, continue to be unpaid. We are waiting for your answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u33	Minister Kostis Hatzidakis has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u34	The situation is, in fact, not pleasant, both in terms of how the recyclable materials are sorted out at the Recyclable Material Selection Centre, in the CIA, as it is called in the arrhythmic of waste management workers, in Heraklion and in relation to workers. I have spoken here about this matter before. First of all, if you want me to tell you about work, because it is two different issues, it is work and how the centre works. The Ministry of Labour informed us that, according to the information held by the Labour Relations Inspectorate of Heraklion, the WASTE SOLUTIONS company, which operates for forty-three employees, employs forty-three employees. As far as pay dues are concerned, the information we have is that the employees have been paid up until September 2019 and the licence allowance for 2019. As of October 2019, a complaint by the Private Officials Association of Heraklion on their non-payment until 10 November 2019 was lodged. The Labour Inspectorate has fined the company for that. Since 16 November the factory has not been working and its employees have not been employed. On 11 December, a meeting between employees' representatives, representatives of the company and representatives of the Hellenic Recycling Association took place between the representatives of the company and representatives of the Greek Recycling Association, which is a recycling system in which the CEDE participated with 35%. There it was agreed jointly to pay the Christmas gift to all employees by 21 December, which was made, and to pay the wages paid in October and November until 24 December, which was also paid. The outgoing contractor has fulfilled all his obligations, therefore, according to the information given to us by the Ministry of Labour. But what's left of it from now on. How KIDS will work, how real recycling will be done in Heraklion, which is an important issue. You should be aware that we are all developing a strategy for the whole country and in the context of dealing with all the problems I met at the Ministry in December and with the Mayor of Heraklion, with which they were discussed - as part of an overall programme for the integrated waste management in Greece and of course in the Region of Crete - these issues. However, since my time is running out of time, I shall refer to the environment, Mr Kegeroglu, in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u36	The contract of the CID, the Material Recycling Centre, of Heraklion had to operate until the end of December. Lock out basically for his part doesn't think it gives him the right to leave unpaid workers after 16 November, but that, as you said quite rightly, is a matter of the Ministry of Labour that should see it. You, if you want, keep a note on this matter, so that the Ministry of Labour can deal with it and implement the law. The important issue, of course, is, as a whole, about the functioning of reliable recycling systems, which in the context of the cyclical economy will be sustainable and of course will achieve their purpose, so that the protection of the environment and the recovery of materials that can be recycled and reused in the context of the cyclical economy can be beneficial for the future, for the benefit of the citizens, and today and tomorrow. In this sense, I think that the study, which you have announced and which I would like to believe will be prepared and given proposals and solutions to these important issues at national level, must of course be accelerated, in order to have solutions, but I believe that you must take the initiative so that the co-legislators in Heraklion operate, even in the context of a pilot run, in order to see other ways, in addition to the assignment of a private operator, the sorting and recycling centre. What do I mean? For example, he is not an irresponsible body. It is the body that is involved and will deal, I believe, more actively in the future, with the issue of waste management. In this context, it is also the direction of recycling, which is European and we believe it in our country. We, at least as a Change Movement, put it as the first priority in the context of sustainable development and the cyclical economy. To take an initiative so that the RESIDAK, the Municipality of Heraklion and the other municipalities or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs gathering all the municipalities of Crete can best see how the centre can proceed and with a programme agreement among themselves to be able to contribute reliably to the operation of the centre. Because, Minister, seventeen times the operation of this centre has ceased for several reasons. Seventeen times! And when people are directed to the municipality, which is forced from time to time to put the materials to be recycled that have received a first sorting at home, along with the rest, the world is disappointed and instead of improving the effort, to bear fruit and to increase the percentage of recycled materials, unfortunately it is reduced. The municipality therefore has no institutional intervention in this part with the institutional framework in force. And so we come to the Minister. Give them responsibility, responsibility at local level and let's do a pilot at Heraklion. Make a program contract between them, support them first and find a way to operate the sorting center. This is their role at local level. I think they want this competence and we want to see it in a new spirit. It may not go with the services of the municipality, the classical or the structures we know, and it may go with a public-private partnership, but with a significant contribution from local bodies, so that it can be implemented and not come to ask the Minister about a matter that is of the regional structure of government, of course at first level always. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u37	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u38	I understand your concern, Mr. Kegeroglu. It's perfectly justified. I want to tell you first two words about what design is available for the CID, the specific Material Recycleds Center, and then I will say two thoughts, too, on our policy as a whole. The alternative management collection system, under the name “Greek Recycling Customisation Company”, a private company in which 35% share capital is included by CEDEFOP, as I said before, had submitted to the National Recycling Agency since 1 October 2019 a three-month extension of the cooperation contract with WASTE SOLUTIONS, a subcontractor of the Greek recycling company. It requested, in particular, an extension until 31 December 2019. The Greek company for recycling has already proceeded since 18 November 2019 in a notice for the award of the contract of the KIDAH Heraklion with a duration of two years from 1 January 2020. In other words, they go to find a new subcontractor, who will do the job that WASTTE SOLUTIONS has failed to do. This process is under way and, in cooperation with the EEW, we are making every effort to complete it as soon as possible. Under existing legislation, the Minister does not do it, the recycling systems do it, and this legislation is not our patent, it is the legislation that up - below is valid in all European countries. In addition, the Single Waste Association of Crete, the competent body of the Region of Crete, had been contacted and in agreement with the "Greek Recycling Company" for the proclamation of a tender and for the preparation of a study on the modernisation of the CID. Work on compatibility has already been carried out and the planned time for completion of the study is in 2020. These are in relation to the direct design for Heraklion Recyclable Material Management Centre. Mr. Kegeroglu, I would like to tell you from the heart that when I took over this ministry, I thought the most important problem I have is PPC. However, the most important problem I have is garbage, waste management, because the situation is depressive. We are twenty-four in the twenty-eight countries of the European Union, when we are the tenth Member State of the European Union. We've all been passed by the others who came in after us. And here we should all see it together, the government, the opposition, the regions, the municipalities, the institutions, the citizens. There can be no delay. We have produced an ambitious programme and we have already started to implement it. Yesterday, in the Attica region, Mr. Patoulis announced - and we support it - the construction of three integrated waste management units in Attica, which had been badly blocked by Mrs. Durous, and now we have the mountains of the garbage in the Race. We move on to the whole country to build such units. We have the ambitious goal of auctioning seventeen waste management units in 2020. One of them will be in Heraklion. It's called Congressman Heraklion. We are working with the regional authorities. We started massively yesterday from Attica and we proceeded with the coffee bins programme, which was at an infancy stage. What are the brown cans? Organic bins, i.e. basically for food, so that we can get another current for recycling. We are trying to introduce new concepts, such as the energy use of waste, for which there was ideology in Greece. In France, which I was the other day, there are hundreds of forty such units and the government supports them, and the government and the parties and everyone here, and we are talking about things that elsewhere are bread cheese, are everyday. Well, we will proceed to all these levels and to the construction of processing plants and the upgrading of recycling through the brown bin and the energy use of waste and the obviously urgent treatment of various cases, as I say - characteristically - Corfu, where we have recently reached an agreement with the three mayors of the island and will for some time be transported waste from there to Kozani. Meanwhile, the tendering in Templelon of the new waste management unit is going on. I'm just saying that, by the way. It's not just Corfu that's our problem. It's a series of islands. We have neutralized some 'time bombs' because they were not just there. It was also in Lefkada, it was in Agios, it was elsewhere and we move forward with a mountain of garbage and a mountain of trouble. But we need to move forward and bring results.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of Parliament, after having previously participated in the educational programme 'State of Democracy' organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and students and three trainers from the "PALADO". The House welcomes you. I also have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories of the Parliament, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the Parliament is organized and operated, fourteen students and students and two attendants of teachers from the Canary Islands School of Corfu. The House welcomes you. I should like to inform the students that today you are attending no legislative work, but Parliamentary control, that is, the Member is asking questions and the Minister is answering. So we continue with the eighth question under number 401/20-1-2020 on second-round question by MP B2' Western Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Previous delays in disciplinary procedures relating to the Zak Kostopoulos case". Mr. Arsenis has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undersecretary, the case is very well known for how this new LBGTQ rights activist and the seropositives were found dead and, as proved by the coroner report, there was a contribution by police forces to his death. That is why the preliminary administrative examination was finally converted into ETS. However, this sworn administrative examination of the police - the internal police procedure - has not gone ahead and has not been completed. And, if you would like, there is a political shadow in this, as the police defenders were a former colleague from the New Democracy Ward, Mr. Manduvalos, and a current, Mr. Ploris. Mr. Mantuvalos lost his legal status later, but Mr. Ploris continues and is defender of the police who participated in the murder of Zak Kostopoulos and he is the one who invokes a coma and is not progressing the SAD. We have a political issue of the utmost importance for the New Democracy, but also for the Ministry, because it is not only the SAD that does not go ahead, in similar ways there is hardly any SAD on the part of the police. So we want you to make a clear commitment that it will change slowly the way things work out in the police, as far as the juror's administrative exams are concerned. I also want one more comment of yours, but I will mention it in dentistry, so that I do not abuse time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u41	The State Secretary for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the mortal injury of a young man on his own is a tragic event, much more so when it comes to people who need special protection from the state. Zak Kostopoulos lost his life on Friday 21 September 2018. On 27 September 2018, an oral administrative examination was commissioned by the Directorate-General for Police at Attica by the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police. Subsequently, the active oral administrative examination, having considered the evidence and the coronary autopsy/ morgue report of Zak Kostopoulos and as clear evidence emerged of disciplinary misconduct resulting from the imposition of a higher disciplinary penalty – redundancy or a temporary suspension – the oral administrative examination carried out was converted into a sworn administrative examination on 20 November 2018. The SAD after about a month, i.e. on 24 December 2018, was subjected to a trial at the Directorate-General for Police at Attica. Subsequently, on 31 December 2018, the HR was submitted to the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police and from there within four days, on 4 January 2019, it was sent to the Citizens' Counselor. In his letter of 8 February 2019, the Citizens' Counselor informed the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police that the ETP's file was examined and its findings were deemed to be formal and substantive in terms of findings and conclusions and need not be further completed. I am tabling this document from the Citizen's Co-rapporteur in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The HR has therefore returned to the Directorate-General for Police at Attica on 16 February 2019 for a trial and has been avenged by the Director-General. In its decision of 18 March 2019, nine policemen were referred to the primary disciplinary board with the question of imposing on four of them the disciplinary penalty for dismissal and for the other five of that holiday with dismissal. The disciplinary board was initially designated on 24 June 2019, but was postponed unanimously, due to the obstruction of the defence lawyer of the six police officers, for invoking a reference to a criminal trial. Subsequently, a new court hearing on 27 September 2019, which was postponed as a result of force majeure, was identified. In the criminal part of the case, the Athens Sub-Saharan Sub-Saharan Sub-Saharan Office was chosen. The pre-examination material was then filed with the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office of Athens, which ordered a major interrogation to investigate the conditions of the lethal injury of Zak Kostopoulos, which was commissioned by the 23rd Regular Interrogator of Interrogatives of Athens. In this context, four of the nine involved in the case of police officers were asked to apologise for the action of the fatal physical harm by consortium. On January 17, 2020, the Council of Chambers of Athens, which was sent to the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police on January 28, 2020, was issued, according to which the four police officers - those who were apologized before the 23rd regular interrogator - were referred to the question of the imposition of the penalty for abduction, were referred to the audience of the mixed judiciary for the offence of the fatal physical harm by conspiracy. On the same day, on 28 January 2020, the parliament was transferred from the Directorate-General for Police at Attica to the primary disciplinary board and a newly appointed judge on 21 February 2020. As you can see, at all stages of the disciplinary procedure the provisions of the provisions of No. 120/2008 and No. 4443/2016 were complied with and no delay was made.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u43	Mr Arsenis has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President. Undersecretary, Zack's family is really shocked at the delay in the administration of justice and unfortunately the delays in the SADs are made with excuses. It's hard to get sick at the same time, two people who are accused. In any case, we have another very important issue. There is from Amnesty International an international campaign to collect signatures for justice, for us to be forced as a country to give justice to the murder of Zak Kostopoulos. When Amnesty International arrived to hand over these signatures to the government, the government, by the mouth of your colleague, Minister Constantine Chiara, did not even agree to meet it. In other words, we see an ETF that does not go any further, the defence attorney being from New Democracy, which is one of the reasons why the investigation does not go ahead, and the Justice Minister does not even agree to meet Amnesty International for the reception of signatures. There is a heavy shadow in the New Democracy to manage this decision and I invite you to take radical steps, because at the moment it seems you do not want to go ahead with the case. I would like a comment from you on this funny thing that has been made public, for this competition for the supply of a two thousand-strong protection system, to stop migratory flows, as you were, until recently, responsible for immigration. He's laughing at the internet. We need you to tell us a point of view if they're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u45	Minister, you have the floor to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u46	I understand the pain of the family and what you are saying, but the conditions and procedures for the award of disciplinary and criminal justice laid down in the legislation in force must be respected. In any event, however, at least for this particular case, there is no doubt that the proceedings have been initiated within the period laid down. With regard to this, I will read you a quote from the Citizen's Counselor's report. In particular, on the last page of the finding, which was filed in the minutes of the Parliament, it is stated that: one of the basic rules of the Criminal Procedure is that of the special and detailed reasons for the judgments, parliaments and the provisions of Article 139 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and which, based on the provisions of Article 8(2) of the A.D. 120/2008 is also applicable here. Already, the Citizens' Consultant in his reports has stressed the need to comply with the ‘complete reasoning principle’ that the reasoning cannot be formal if the essentialness of the judicial judgments is intended. We are pleased to note that the above finding report appears to take into account the above principle in order to take into account the proposals - conclusions of the operative part. In particular, the SAD was carried out at the necessary time and in compliance with the provisions of Article 20(14) of the SAD. The available evidence was collected: sound, audiovisual material, witness deposits, identification reports, autopsy-mortem coronary coronary coronary coronary coronary coronary, toxicological and histological examinations, copies of reports of the criminal file and assessed and subjected to the existing rules of the Disciplinary Law on the grounds of this by using the general principles of Criminal Law. In addition, the findings and documents of the EESC's file show that the administrative review procedure was carried out in accordance with the provisions of Article 120/2008 and the general principles and rules of criminal law that can be applied adapted to the nature of the Disciplinary Law, while respecting the rights protected by them of disciplinaryly controlled and persecuted persons and also appears to be respected by the rights laid down in Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights and by the principles deriving therefrom, in the case-law of the national courts and of the European Court of Justice on Human Rights. Therefore, the Citizens’ Ombudsman acknowledges that the SAD has been conducted at the necessary time and that the procedures provided for in the provisions of d.d.120/2008 have been complied with. I must note that, given that, in the Zak Kostopoulos case, there are developments with the indictment of classes of regular justice, disciplinary control will be influenced by this development as it follows the criminal procedure and it is reasonable that the decisions of the criminal proceedings will in every way determine the internal disciplinary procedure, both as regards the timetable and the outcome. I would like to stress, in the most unequivocal way, that neither the political leadership nor the physical leadership of the police are tolerated. Our constitution, as we owe it to a democratic state, is absolute respect for human rights and constitutional legitimacy, and that is what we are serving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House of Greeks organizes and operates, a group of eleven students "ERASMUS" from the National Kapodistrian University of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] You are watching, because you are students, at the moment, not legislative work, but parliamentary control. The Member always asks and the Minister answers the question. The fifth will be discussed under number 417/23-1-2020 in the first cycle of the H' Vice-President of Parliament and MP B3' South Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr Sophia Sakorafas to the Minister of Health, on the topic: "Dacks of anti-neoplastic drugs - delays and cancellations of treatments". Here, Mrs Sacorafa, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, unfortunately our topical question concerns a particularly difficult subject - and I would say - a sensitive category of our fellow citizens. It does not generally concern what has been said recently about drug shortages, even by complaints of pharmaceutical associations. We are referring specifically to the shortcomings that have been observed recently specifically in anti-neoplastic drugs. There are a number of reports and complaints about a protracted lack of such medicines, even - I would say - and fundamentally. Many of these medicines are even used to treat more cancers. The immediate consequence of the lack of these medicines is to delay unauthorised or even to cancel scheduled cancer therapies. Physicians and patients are despaired due to shortages of essential medicines even to pharmacies from which they are supplied. Minister, away from us any thought to monopolize the sensitivity or interest of those of us who are subjected to this painful process of fighting cancer. They are fighting hard, and in such cases they must not feel that the state is mocking them. When chemo treatments are postponed or cancelled when they do not find their medicine powerless to the disease, but I would say to the state too. We know, of course, that the phenomenon of similar deficiencies existed in the past. It's not the first time this has happened. The repetition of the problem shows that this is not being dealt with effectively, but is not being dealt with strategically by the competent state bodies. It also shows that it is not enough for the desecrated reflex or firefighting actions to eradicate it. There is also a need for a medium-term plan, because in any case it is essential for the state to ensure the availability of these medicines continuously and relentlessly. That is why we ask you, Minister: what immediate measures will you be faced with the lack of these medicines? Also - very importantly - what action will you ensure that this unacceptable phenomenon will not be repeated in the future? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too. Mr. Kontozamanis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Sacorafas, the fact that there are specific problems and malfunctions, as far as the shortcomings of specific active substances are concerned, we do not deny that. Besides, it's a problem over time. The issue is to be able to take concrete measures and actions, which I will analyse, to ensure that the market is properly and adequately supplied. After all, I think that this is what all governments have always done, not just us but the previous ones, in order to tackle this problem. I think it is important to listen to the labels of operators, such as the Greek Federation of Cancer and other patients, and, of course, to look at the real situation. But I want to be more specific. Delays and cancellations of chemo therapy have not been very much in the National Health System. For example, on the basis of the data of the First Health Region of Attica for the period from 1 September 2019 to 27 January 2020 four postponements of sessions were recorded, one in the General Hospital of Hippocrates, one in the ‘Sava’ and two in the ‘Laiko’ Hospital. In fact, the ‘Lacto’ Hospital mainly concerned treatments for haematological patients mainly with the active substance melphalan and fenomycin, where the problem of deficiency has been restored. This is a global problem for these active substances. You are aware, therefore, that in the country's largest health region delays, delays have been minimal. Let me note that in October, November and December 2019 and January 2020 thirty-eight thousand ninety-sixty-sixteen meetings have taken place. In the fourth Health Region of Macedonia in none of the eight overall hospitals, which provide chemotherapy services, there has been no deferral of chemotherapy. The problems that have arisen have been directly addressed, with the result that the sessions are normally held, as well as other hospitals, such as AHEPA. I shall return to the issue of deficiencies. In December, due to the lack of "platinum" there were time transfers of some treatments by two or three days, but there were no effects on the treatment of patients. The medicines were taken from other hospitals and were then returned. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I will use time from my dentistry, Mr President. For a low-cost medicine, the lack was addressed by finding out from the free market for a small number of packages. Particularly at the intervals that had a problem due to a lack of drugs, the problems were also addressed by the administration of medicines by the EOPY pharmacy, either by exceptional imports from the National Medicines Agency and the Institute for Medicinal Research and Technology. These examples are also available for various other hospitals. Allow me to say this, as far as the measures we take are concerned. Of course, we all know that enough chemo medicinal products have been established for many years in therapy and are cheap because they are old medicines and because their production is not in the interest of that there are certain shortcomings. To this end, in addition to the exceptional imports made by the National Medicines Agency to deal with the shortage of these products, the National Medicines Agency has already come in contact with Greek companies to produce these cheap drugs so that the market can be adequately covered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u51	Mrs Sakorafa has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u52	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, if someone in your family has been ill with this disease, or if you've been sick yourself, you know that the fight against cancer involves you all and you have a particular sensitivity I'd say. I have therefore tried from the first moment - at least in the words I have used - to avoid any suspicion of political exploitation - from me - I would not like to do so at all, because we are talking about a particular category of our fellow people, who are going through their own shoulder. But I hoped that your answer would not include the argument that there were no delays or that there are no deficiencies. That is foreseeable, because you know very well that newspapers in the press are growing, and even too much is being done. All of us here are responsible - each one of us - for eliminating such incidents completely. These people, when their medicine is missing, are forced to resort to cancer patients and clubs are in turn looking from hospital to hospital. You know that. It is an unacceptable - I would say -, psycho-corruption and additional aggravating procedure against which there are no excuses or communication evasions. This means that all difficulties and obstacles must be overcome in every way. It is well known the data that can be synthesized in shortcomings, such as for example reduced imports, probably because of clawback, or increased exports for the greatest profit - you know it. There are huge shortages in drugs. In any event, the IFET should be required to maintain a safety reserve on medicinal products, and in particular on the essentials of such medicinal products. Therefore, IFET should, in cooperation with the IFO, take care to provide for the supply and adequacy of these medicines, but also for the creation of a safety reserve in order to deal with any reduced production, but also with any other possibility of shortage. And I ask you: why did this security reserve not exist? Would it not help, Minister, a national record of neoplasms to develop directly and at any time how many patients undergo what treatments and where? Should hospital pharmacies not be electronically interconnected so that any deficiencies or surpluses arise immediately? I have also not heard, Mr Minister, what measures you intend to take to stop artificial shortages and not cause a problem for parallel exports. The Greek Cancer Federation publicly announced that it had sent you a letter on this problem since August 2019. However, despite the relevant assurances, the complaints of shortcomings in various regions of the country, such as, for example, the last one, in Thessaloniki, you referred to earlier and also Crete, have not ceased. After all, it is impossible to expose the Ministry for shortages to basic, even to cheap drugs. The problem - as we have said - does not arise for the first time. It's repetitive. That is why the responsibilities of the competent authorities are greater, which should have anticipated developments and taken care of in time on the basis of their given experience. So I repeat by closing - and we all have to agree on this - that it is an essential and incomprehensible obligation for the state to ensure the continued adequacy of neoplastic drugs, so that patients can be covered without exception. I have heard too many patients say that "my God in this process is my doctor and my miracle is drugs". Let's not deprive them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u53	The State Secretary for Health Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the Minutes the above memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mrs Sakorafa, I said that we recognise the problem of deficits, which is timeless and certainly not to be exploited politically. I am sure everyone is taking the appropriate steps to ensure that there are no shortages and that any problems are dealt with. It's not a question of government. All governments work in this direction. I say this with deep experience because I have also been President of the National Medicines Agency and I know the actions of all the relevant bodies in order to have market coverage. What I would like to say is this. Indeed, in some products it is not possible at the moment to stock up from the IFET, because there are shortages worldwide and we are trying marginally to cover the needs. That is why I also said in my prology that we are in agreement with the Greek pharmaceutical industry in order to proceed with the production of these cheap anti-neoplastic products so that there is sufficient market power. Secondly, as regards parallel exports, since it is found that medicinal products are exported and are not covered by the Greek market, we are prohibiting exports so that there is no risk of the products being extinct from the market. We are talking about a certified shortage and a shortage of active substance and not a trade name, because it is the active substance that meets the therapeutic need. We are also taking care of another piece of action. We have already met and agreed with the Panhellenic Pharmaceutical Association in order to have close cooperation between the relevant organs, particularly between the Panhellenic and the National Medicines Agency, so that the shortcomings on the market can be recorded and intervene where necessary. I told you that these active substances are already adequately covered in the market - mainly with regard to certain haematological diseases - and the effort is continuous and continuous. There may be a few days delays in treatment, but no one has been canceled, and I believe that every citizen at the end takes the treatment he needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u55	We continue with the third with number 434/28-1-2020 in the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "For the problems and shortcomings of the General Hospital of Chania". Here, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Hospital of Chania serves a hundred and seventy thousand inhabitants of Chania, while during the summer period the number of people served is more than doubled, since there is no other hospital in the prefecture on a daily basis. At the same time, the number of patients treated in recent years has been five times higher because of the deterioration in the living conditions of workers and the lack of primary care. The hospital is unable to respond to its role. There are hundreds of gaps in medical, nursing, technician and paramedical staff, even in the places provided for by the existing incomplete hospital organization. The direct consequence of hypotension is patients' tails, the marginal status for many specialties, the long-term anticipation of an examination at the hospital. The characteristic is that the waiting list in specialties like gastroenterology reaches two years. In addition, in the endocrine state the condition that has been formed is such that it is now unable to accept new patients. The consequence of this is also the intensification of the work of workers, who are mostly working with flexible working relationships, with 'cut' rights and hunger wages and the dysfunctions in many clinics. For example, the average nursing staff on the night shift is one nurse per clinic. The tragic situation is exacerbating the problems relating to the building infrastructure and the hospital's technical equipment as a result of its incomplete or incomplete maintenance. The hospital is an example of the dangerous health situation in general. It is not something special about the rest of the situation, and that is because of the funding from all the governments to date for the benefit of entrepreneurs who are active in this area and at the expense of the workers and the people's families and workers in the sector. We ask you, Minister, what measures will the government take to deal immediately with the major problems in the hospital, to recruit all the necessary permanent medical, nursing and other personnel, with absolutely free medical care and non-planned examinations and cuts, with the abolition of contributions to the health sector and the abolition of all business activities, so that patients can be hospitalized under the conditions of the 21st century. That is not what we simply said - and I am closing down with this, Mr President - from the visit of our party's Secretary-General to Chania on 14 December 2019, where there was a meeting of the workers' association at the General Hospital of Chania and other workers, an important and constructive meeting where they were set up with the Secretary-General of the JRC. Indeed, I am presenting to the Minutes of the House and the relevant memorandum given by the workers to the Secretary-General. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u57	Thank you. Mr. Kontozamanis has the floor for three minutes for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Synthyaki, as I have answered to similar questions from fellow Members of the Communist Party of Greece and other parties, the problems and shortcomings in hospitals throughout the country are not currently a phenomenon. They were inherited to the current government and, of course, the situation we were called upon to manage was much worse than the one we imagined. We are making every effort to reverse this situation and we have fought a great deal to ensure the safe and adequate operation of hospital facilities in 2019. Every year, in recent years, a very large number of staff have been retired, not only medically but also other staff, by the National Health System. The National Health System has completed its pension years since 1983, and we have been at a turning point with this great wave of retirements. I'm sure recruitment needs are too many. Recruitment is already progressing to other staff and medical staff, but specific programming has been made for 2020 and the coming years. In fact, because I have responded in advance, I would remind you that in this direction we are moving towards the conversion of auxiliary staff to Curators II, in order to give a breath to the system with permanent recruitment and to cover empty organic posts with permanent recruitment to the National Health System. Of course, we are in the legislative process, in order to speed up the recruitment of nurses to hospitals, creating a nurses' branch, so that there is no delay in the recruitment of this group that our hospitals so need. As far as Chania Hospital, which is the main object of your question, is concerned, I must say that, as far as the gastrointestinal clinic is concerned, the waiting is not two years, as you say. There is a problem with external patients coming to the hospital to consider. In internal hospitals, the examinations are carried out normally, every week more than fifty endoscopies, i.e. over two and a half thousand per year and from these thirty - thirty - five concern internal patients. With regard to permanent recruitment, we have two positions of Curator II and twenty - five posts of other staff. I would once again point out that the emergency needs are covered by additional ancillary staff, approved at the request of the hospital to the Ministry of Health. To note in response to your question that care and tests at public hospitals are free of charge. So I do not understand why you are asking for absolutely free medical treatment and tests without plaques and cuts. Of course, as far as the acute building problems are concerned, we all know that infrastructure in the National Health System is obsolete. It is not only about building infrastructure but also biomedical equipment, which is also old. There is a concrete plan to upgrade the building infrastructure to all hospitals in the country and of course to replace and upgrade biomedical equipment in order to modernise the infrastructure and to enjoy every citizen the best health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Synthrakis has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u60	Minister, two weeks ago we discussed the state of Saint Nicholas Hospital together. I do not want to insult you, you have given an answer and then today. In fact, I told you - and I repeat it now - that what the ministers of the previous government told us about the same things you said to us, namely that you inherited from the previous government this bad situation in hospitals. But the previous government also said the same thing about previous governments. In other words, we are now talking about 'carbon' answers. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] You're saying it's free hospital treatment. On the one hand, citizens' access to public hospitals has made it difficult in terms of the fact that there are all these great delays, which I will tell you shortly, in order to do his examinations, to receive care, etc., and on the other hand, you do not forget that there are the afternoon hospitals, which a large part of the population, due to the problems and malfunctions presented by the hospital in the morning hours, is headed to the afternoon hospitals despite the large and titanic efforts made by these very few staff who have the hospitals. Secondly, on 31-10-2019, you were visited by the workers of Agios Nikolaos Hospital and even by the workers of Agios Nikolaos Hospital and also by a resolution in which the immediate, basic problems facing the hospital are recorded. You now deny them that patients' appointments for examinations delay up to two years. Workers can't make it out of their minds, obviously live the daily life of the hospital and have a better perception than any minister. Other issues have been put before you, such as an endocrinologist's appointment. The only endocrinologist in the hospital is following five and a half thousand patients. Metadata for MRI if someone goes to shut down now, they will give him paper for August 2020, for an eyewitness in June 2020, for a rheumatologist in June 2020. The seven-bed defensive unit operates in an emergency due to a lack of nursing personnel. To open up the haemodynamic lab, there were the few nursing staff of the unit. These are known to you, and you even promised them that you would deal with these problems. So these announcements, which you are saying about recruiting new staff, do not know whether they have any value when they are constantly repeated. So the problem with the auxiliary, flexible working relationships, contractors, is not solved and it goes on to say. You know that's how hospitals operate today. So, in our view, the government continues the very unhealthy policy followed by the previous governments. Why? Because you do not take into account the needs of the people - not of Chania, as a whole - for a scientifically modern health system that ensures workers in health areas and, of course, takes the form of full coverage of all social needs, in line with scientific progress. After all, you know that 20% of all workers in public hospitals are working with flexible labour relations, and that of course has the effect of continuing job insecurity, unemployment, economic, social, psychological problems they face, scientific amputation and goes by saying. In any case, on the question of health - and I am ending this, Mr President - there are no discounts, there are no 'blocks', there is no simple management of the poverty that the hospitals currently have. So we have to stop this smuggling, these "carbon" answers you all give every time. Increase funding bravely to meet all needs. You do not, because you are committed, like the previous ones, to the memoranda, the budgetary policies, the medium-term programmes and it goes on to say. So permanently, personnel working with late working relationships. Involve additional staff, covering growing needs, but permanent staff, not this atrocity of recruitment a few months or of subsidiary staff, who do not effectively and systematically solve the problem. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u61	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, let me say that there is no magic wand, so that one day on the other can change a situation. Our responses are not 'carbon', we have a concrete plan, we have taken concrete measures, we have announced them, we implement them, and I am sure that in a short time these results will appear. Our aim is to address the major issues in the health sector, such as funding, but also to reach a level of tackling the problems of each patient separately, not to leave any of our fellow citizens behind, not to leave any need uncovered. That needs a plan, which we have and which we are implementing. I would like to stress once again that the government is committed to the public health system, where every citizen will have access to all health services without undue costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, too, Minister. We proceed to the fourth with number 413/22-1-2020, a top-level question for the first cycle of Parliamentary B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Maria Athanasiou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Extensive convening of the World Health Organization for the new coronary". My colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, following the domestic and international news in due course almost ten days ago, we as Greek Solution understood the enormous danger that our country is running from this transmission of the murder virus. Already, the coronary case has taken place worldwide, with the World Health Organization proclaiming alarms. We learn that you, meanwhile, have taken some measures to date, but the dimensions are already huge and every day the data is changing to the worst, as you know. In China they are quarantine whole cities of millions of people and they build special hospitals of thousands of beds only for the patients of the virus. Russia has closed its borders with China to avoid spreading the virus on its territory. ‘LUFTHANSA’, ‘AIR FRANCE’, ‘BRITH AIRWAYS’ and other companies have suspended flights to and from China. On the cruise ship 'COSTA SMERALDA', which is open to Rome with six thousand passengers and a thousand crew, two suspect cases were prohibited. It should be noted that the ship, before the flood in Italy, was in the ports of Mayorca, Barcelona and Malaysia. The pilots in Piraeus refuse to board ships coming from China. The Czech Republic stopped issuing visas to Chinese. Other cases are identified throughout the world every day and, in fact, we are on the verge of an unprecedented pandemic, with huge consequences for both people's health and the global economy. Minister, this virus has an incubation period of about one week up to fourteen days. Our country is also a transiting destination for foreigners and much more is the final destination of thousands of people from China. So I ask you, bearing in mind the current situation and the expected negative development: firstly, what procedures are there for controlling this new coronary disease at the points of entry of the country and what procedures are applied and what specific infrastructure is there on the Greek territory for the reception and treatment of cases of this contagious disease? Secondly, how many Chinese entered Greece in 2019 and how many expected in 2020? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, my colleague. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Athanasios, first of all - because you mentioned this as a pandemic - that the coronary has not been described as a pandemic by the World Health Organisation. We always follow the clear instructions of the World Health Organisation. Last night the World Health Organisation raised its level of preparedness to the Member States because of increased cases. I must say that our country has such experience from the past in managing such incidents. We are ready to deal with any cases that will come to the country and have taken all the necessary steps, which I will present to you in order to be ready as a country. I would like to say that, first of all, we must not create panic. We must reassure people. In no case, however, is the state mechanism at ease. As far as the preparation we have done, first of all at the entrance gates of the country is concerned, the preparation consists of informing travellers to and from the affected areas, informing staff at the entrance gates of the possibility of entering a case and the necessary actions in the event of its detection. In health services areas, preparation consists of information to health professionals and other staff and to all private doctors about the need for screening, and measures to prevent and prevent the spread of the virus in case of a case, preparation of the health system and health service areas. Among other things, we have already designated reference hospitals, laboratory diagnostic centres and there is adequate personal protection measures and appropriate logistical infrastructure for hospitalisation of incidents. With regard to information to the public, preparation is to inform the public through the National Public Health Agency with posters, in particular, at the entrance gates of the country and in health services areas and information from the media. Specifically, the National Agency for Public Health has taken the following steps: It has defined the case for epidemiological surveillance of the new clown, it has given instructions to the public and health professionals. He has given instructions on health services, hospitals, health centres etc. for appropriate procedures for the hospitalisation and management of a suspected or confirmed coronary case. There are instructions for the National Center for Immediate Help, instructions to medical clubs in the country and their members, instructions for the necessary protection equipment and assessment for the necessary personnel and the possibility of hospitalisation of a suspected event, instructions for laboratory diagnosis and the necessary measures for the transport of samples, instructions for the monitoring of health professionals likely to be exposed to the virus, instructions for police personnel working at the entrance gates of the country, guidance on travellers, ship crew and aircraft crew. There is also a preparation of directives for visitors to China, preparation of directives for air-health professionals and aircraft crews in the event of a suspected incident in a flight, preparation of directives for ground-based personnel, preparation of directives concerning ship crews in the event of a suspected event at sea, preparation of directives on hotels and other accommodations for travellers, preparation of information and guidance on travellers to China, regular cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on emergency needs of diplomats and officials in China, daily communication with the Chinese Embassy, provision of instructions on a daily basis to private and healthcare professionals on questions and clarifications. There is a stadium of the National Public Health Agency on arrival of the three direct flights a week from Beijing to provide information and possible case detection and a simulation of possible imported case has already been carried out in cooperation with the Attica Hospital and the EAW. The Minister for Health has met with the Chinese Ambassador on the desire and the related measures taken in China and, of course, there has also been a meeting with the Ministry of Education in order to provide specific information to teachers. I would like to point out that all the directives are updated on a daily basis and in addition all the directives have been sent to all the competent bodies as I mentioned above. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, too, Minister. Madam President, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u68	I shall reply to the Minister with the question, Mr Minister, on the fact that we should not panic the world. The Czech Republic and Russia, which have taken these measures, do not think they give a sense of panic. As for the information, I would like to tell you that yesterday 30/1, an information circular was sent with instructions on measures to prevent the spread of infection by the new coronary in school units and education bodies, just yesterday. I would also like to stress that all our hospitals are subordinated by doctors, nurses and paramedical staff, and for whom, as a government, we hope you will do something, because if you do not give doctors and all the personal incentives, no one or when they go for emergencies, will leave, look at another chance to leave. And over there, the hospitals are subordinated so that they can deal with the people who have the virus. We haven't seen posters anywhere all this time, let people know. We have an uncontrolled immigration influx, where do you know it? Finally, I would like to say that, as well as all the islands, such as Santorini, which have the charters, they may have the security of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u69	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Athanasios, I also said in my protology that we are reassuring, but we are not reassuring. We have taken all the necessary measures and again I should like to stress that there is experience in the state mechanism from the management of such incidents, cases, situations in the past and I must assure you and this House that there is no cause for concern and that we are able to deal with any case and all the necessary steps have been taken to prevent any incidents and to deal with, if any, any case. In any case, we're not making any stunning moves. It is a matter of protecting public health. We must follow the instructions of the World Health Organisation and that is what we are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too. The first item under number 440/28-1-2020 is now being discussed in the second question of the Athens Chamber of Deputies, Mera25 Mr. Angelikos Adamopoulou, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Several health problems'. My colleague, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, according to recent reports, very serious public health problems are reflected. There are large deficiencies and gaps in hospitals in Attica and the province, the Greek Cancer Federation has declared that there have been delays and cancellations of chemo therapy, artificial shortages of medications in pharmacies, deficiencies of basic antineoplastics, long delays and often cancellation of scheduled chemo treatments in many hospitals in the country. The hospitals in Thessaloniki cannot carry out autologous transplants due to a lack of cheap basic medicine. Also, a lack of injured persons in all health hospitals and centres in the country, where more than 60% of the organic jobs are empty. In large hospitals more than a thousand patients in each on-call take care of two to three injured and regularly and occasionally any emergency. The Hospital Doctors' Association has also denounced huge shortages of medical staff in all hospitals. In many hospitals, clinical suboptimals or superintendents operate. The notices have been frozen indefinitely, as well as movements of rural and general hospitals. It is abandoned even the region. There are deficiencies in the radiologists in Thesprotia. The Psychiatric Clinic of the Volos Hospital employs three doctors for a hundred and twenty psychiatric incidents. In fact, the prosecution orders for involuntary hospitalization are increasing. The AHEPA University Hospital also observed shortages of materials, delays, postoperative delays. Problematic is the operation in regular hospitals, while in cardiothoracic surgery and pre-education surgery there are sixty emergency surgery on the list that are not programmed due to a lack of materials. Off-call is even the vasodilator and invasive department. Indeed, due to a lack of staff there are only two of the six rooms. The "Agia Olga" Hospital updates daily until noon where there are major shortages of doctors and nurses and also postpones scheduled surgery, about forty scheduled surgery a week, while the radiological stopped doing mastography, triplex, ultrasound in external patients. Significant substation problems at Kalamata and Kyparissia Hospitals. Also, there is a recent EEAS agreement post with private clinics for forty-nine intensive treatment beds. In view of the constitutional obligation of the state to provide high-level public health services and, of course, in the light of the resulting coronary - yesterday, the World Health Organisation has declared a global alert for the Coronary - asks the Ministry what it intends to do about these serious problems in which the publications are referred to, and secondly, why the ECOFIN Minister has concluded these contracts with private hospitals instead of strengthening the corresponding structures in the public hospitals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u73	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Adamopoulou, you have almost mentioned the problems caused by all hospitals and the whole health system in the country. I imagine it's understood that in three minutes I can't answer all of this. We have given clear, adequate answers to specific problems from your older colleagues in the Greek Parliament. We are dealing with the problems and many times it has been shown that no surgery has been delayed or delayed examinations, just a fast news product. I would like to say, because you refer to your question, in relation to the coronary, because I answered it in the previous question. All health units in the country are ready to deal with a possible case and, of course, with specific plans and reforms and decisions that we have taken will be upgrading the health services provided in order to solve the chronic problems of the National Health System. Allow me once again, because you have referred to cooperation with the private sector, that this is not at all at the expense of the citizens. Cooperation with the private sector is about better access to health services for every Greek citizen. Whenever the conclusion of contracts between the National Health Services Agency and private clinics for intensive beds is concluded, this is done again without additional costs for the patient, in order to have additionally available intensive treatment units. In addition to the extension of the agreement, which we have with private clinics for the provision of intensive care units, I have to say that we are directly conducting six beds of ITH in the hospitals of Athens, as well as opening up the increased care facility at the KC Hospital, which will give breath to the problems we face in the area of intensive treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u75	Thank you too, Minister. Mrs Aggeliki Adamopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Undersecretary, we think there is a tendency on the part of the Ministry to reduce this serious problem in hospitals. There is a more general picture of the dismantling of public health, and since you said that all of this is take news, then, first of all, we call on you to disprove all these news agencies, which I shall invoke a little more details at the moment, in relation to the image of public health. In particular, these publications, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. The ‘TV Without Borders’, therefore, states that according to a complaint from the director of the pediatric section of the Pentelis Children, this section is threatened with a lock-up. Also, in the Children's Annex to Callithea there is only one pediatrician, where for 2019 he examined seven thousand children. At the San Olga Hospital, which I mentioned before, there have been shortages of doctors and materials in the last six months. At Volos Hospital completeness reaches 60.9% and out of a thousand sixty-nine places, based on the organogram covered are only six hundred fifty-one. At the Children's Hospital "Agia Sophia" and "Panagiotis and Agaleia Sundays" the wait daily reaches eight to nine hours. Complaints even of the Panhellenic Federation of Workers of Public Hospitals are very characteristic, as they announce that within an intensively treated 50 patients are out of bed. There are eighty beds up to 100 intensive treatment units in public hospitals. Unfortunately, I don't have the time to report on all the publications. I'm trying to mention the most characteristic. In Attica hospitals there are clear gaps in medical and pediatric staff. Continuously canceled operations scheduled and chemo therapy. The same is true in the Hospital "Agia Olga". We would like here, because there is a statement by the Minister for Health that he will move some personnel, say that we do not think that they solve the problem, because they leave gaps in the respective sections and the consequences of the malfunctions. They are, of course, statements about the Children's Hospital "Silence Sunday" and Alexandra Hospital and the Penteli Children's Hospital. The Panhellenic Victims Association denounces the appalling lack of traumatists in general, inadequacies of anti-neoplastic drugs. I'll testify to the Minutes anyway. Also, Epirus hospitals have been operating or operating with over-calls, the notices have been frozen. Public health presents an image of dissolution. We believe that the government, the Ministry - we call on the Ministry to commit itself - should undertake its constitutional obligations to increase funding and indeed bravely from the state budget to cover all these gaps. We believe that public-private partnerships are not just solving the problem, but making it worse. This is a model which has been applied in Great Britain and has so far been considered ineffective and unsuccessful, but also cost-effective. Because, yes, we have private investment, but it is the public one, which takes the cost, the risks. So in relation to the statement you made, that the citizens are not being charged, the very application of this model in different countries has shown that yes, the state budget is also being charged with this. We believe that Greece - the government in particular - should work to reach 7% of GDP in order to bring European objectives closer to public spending. Greece is currently, in fact, still, at around 5.1%. This objective has been achieved by the previous government. We understand that these are the memorial measures, that they are the austerity measures that have led to this situation too. However, we think that the government should take measures and can take measures with appropriate budget funding to cover all these gaps, because, in other words, many doctors are leaving abroad and so the problem is getting worse. We therefore believe that it should be the public structures that will be strengthened rather than modelled, which actually lead to health trade, to speculate and to smash public health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Adamopoulou, of course, the government recognises the problems in the area of public health and the health system in general. First of all, we raised them. First of all, we stressed them. I said that there are no magical solutions or solutions which will have effects from one day to the next. We have captured the situation we have received. We have moved on to concrete measures, and there is a concrete plan for the next few months on how to reschedule the health system. Once again, I would like to stress that we are safeguarding the public character of the public health system. Let me say that the value of human life for us is beyond and beyond all idealism. I am referring to public-private partnerships, because these partnership models, which are financial models, are intended to upgrade existing health services and offer new and better and quality health services to every citizen. That is what we will do, respecting the Greek taxpayer's money, respecting the principles and values for a public health system, which will ensure that all citizens have access to every necessary health service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, after being toured in the exhibition "Volumes of the Greeks: The one-way stations of almost two hundred years" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and two teachers and two teachers attending from the 53rd General High School of Athens. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides]] Now we go to the second with number 441/28-1-2020 on the second question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Cumulations of problems for delays and cancellations of chemo therapy in public hospitals". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Secretary, this has already been discussed by Mrs Sakova' s question, which you have given an entirely unsatisfactory answer, but also by Mrs Adamopoulou's question, which was also not satisfactory. However, in order not to waste time with a repetition of your positions, I would like to raise a matter of direct interest to you at the moment of all citizens, what has come to the news about the Race. The studies of the Gender prove the dangers to the health of the citizens throughout Athens. I would at least like you, instead of repeating the same arguments about the shortcomings of anticancer medicines, to tell us at least one comment about what you are doing with these studies. We are now aware of the dangers to cancer in the entire population of Athens. If you can, give us a first comment and your reactions.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u81	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Now you find me unprepared, because your question concerns the shortcomings of medicines, which was the same question as your colleague Mrs Sacorafa, to whom I replied. As far as these studies are concerned, let me answer your next question. Certainly, in the context of the Ministry of Health's mission to protect public health, all the studies and all the references that are being made and made to all the necessary steps are taken to ensure public health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Colleague, would you like to answer for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. We move to the seventh under number 396/20-1-2020 on the second question of the second question of the Rethymnon MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthi to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delays in the process of completing psychiatric reform". Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I think we all agree that mental health is an area of special sensitivity, serious vulnerability, major inequalities and often undoubted human rights and inconvenience. And rightly so, the World Health Organisation considers it to be a major threat - that is what epidemiological data are saying - for the next decades and therefore, it must be included in the programme of equality in health clearly mental health and improving care for mental patients. Many important steps had been taken in this area, over two decades ago, in the perspective of psychiatric reform, decontamination and Community care. These steps have been taken and this course has, in fact, improved in the crisis and the austerity measures. Over the past period we have managed, despite the fact that we have operated a Memorandum and an environment of limited resources, to take some important steps and to relaunch this case of psychiatric reform in a sustainable way. First of all, we opened four new sections, four new psychiatric clinics in prefecture hospitals, in provincial hospitals, in the "Hippo-state" of Thessaloniki, in Giannitsa, in Argos and in Corinth. We opened a special section on neurogenic anorexia, unique in the country, at the "Sismanoglio General Hospital". We managed to close Tripoli Psychiatric Hospital in the logic of demolition, and the last few years patients left this police regime. Some fifty permanent doctors, i.e. psychiatrists and paediatric psychiatrists, hospitals and CYPYs, in Psych health centers all over the country, have also been proclaimed, which has had to be done for many years. Of course, there have also been important institutional areas. We passed a law, n. 4461/2017, which decentralises the administration of services, provides for regional addresses involving representatives of recipients and their families. It was a great democratic incision. Now the PHYTIFYs are slowly formed. In addition, the social cooperatives of limited responsibility were supported, the JEPs, which are an excellent model of solidarity between the economy and a psychotherapist role, as well as a resettlement, reintegrationist. There was intervention, we legislated in the framework of the care of the people referred to in Article 69, the well-known 'unreasonable' - in introductory terms - we took some important steps in the reform of psychiatric on-call in Lefkanopedi. Of course, there has been a project plan through the ESRB of about EUR 35 million with twenty-two new structures - including structures and services for dementia and Alzheimer's - and strengthening existing structures. More importantly, we have succeeded in completing the sectionation, and this is very critical for the care of mental health, for it to be provided sectorally and close to where the patient lives. We have a volume of three hundred pages that captures all existing structures and services, their staffing and has a five-year plan for how the system can be developed. It is excellent institutional and organisational preparation - I think - very important. So the conclusion is this: steps have been taken. In any case, there is a national obligation, and in 2015 we closed the loose ends with the previous Pact with the European Union, the Lykurenjou-Andor, without any problem, without fines being imposed and we ensured the financing of the PSK, the decommissioning plants, the PSYCHARGAS programme. So steps have been taken in the difficult times of the crisis and the memorial. The question is whether these steps will continue. The scripts so far are completely frustrating. We do not see any plan or concrete steps which lead to a goal that many agree should be implemented, namely the transformation of the last three special psychiatric hospitals and the definitive transition from the immunity model to a model of community care and social psychiatry. So the question is what exactly is the Ministry's political planning for this very sensitive area of mental health in our country?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Madam President. You will allow me to take some time from my dentistry because this is the first time that I have asked a question about mental health and I have to answer it in detail. It's important. Mr. Xanthi, Minister, it is true that as Minister of Health you have tried to make a change in mental health. We consider it positive that your Government overrun its ideoleptic contagion and accepted the implementation of the Lykurenju-Andor Pact. This avoided the loss of significant resources from the NSRP, but in particular the psychiatric reform of the "SYCHARGIS" programme continued. The laws of Law 4461 are generally in the positive direction and are compatible with the report of assessors and the general guidelines for the regionalisation of the administration of the system by transferring responsibilities to health regions. But it is strange to criticise, when for about two years, you have done nothing to implement the law, so that it remains virtually inactive. At the same time, we want to point out that the positive direction of regionalisation is essentially one of the individual arrangements which describe a multitude of bureaucratic committees, councils, etc. In addition, they ignore the need to interconnect other health services with mental health and especially with primary health care. Although your overall attitude to reforms is characterised over time as conservative, I could only comment positively on the actions you have taken and on the work that has been done on mental health, such as the creation of new structures, the drafting of bills and ministerial decisions and the launching of the ESDP projects. But where we disagree and stand against it is the concept on which all the effort was based: rough planning, relaxed control over funding, selective in many cases. For our part, we understand and approach mental health very differently, seeking concrete results and not impressions. After three, four years of rich funding over your days, it was discovered by the sworn accountants that more payments had been made than they should have. This difference approaches the 54m euros, which we are trying to alleviate. Rehabilitation facilities were designed through the NSRP, for which, according to an information report by the Department of Psychiatric Health, 15 versions of licensed mental health establishments are pending, there are more than twenty-five operating permits that have arisen from the competitive process provided for in the 63439 Ministerial Decision, two short-stay guesthouses at the General Hospital of Agrinio, where no absorption has been made so far, i.e. they have not proceeded with the project. Regarding your legislative work, there are legal acts that have been adopted, but have not been implemented. Of the thirty-seven EIFs, 15 have not been formed, one of the seventeen EIFs of children and adolescents has not formed one. The setting-up of twelve committees to protect the rights of receivers of mental health services is pending. The application of a new tariff for legal persons under private law is pending. The information system that controlled payments has stopped operation. Instead, a new information system has been set up which will be developed within the framework of a co-financed programme. So for more than three years there has been no control, and this has led to the EUR 54,000,000 that I mentioned. The new administrative and financial management system of grant control and quality monitoring in mental health establishments has not yet been implemented. That's why I'm talking about sloppy in your design. For projects related to Community funding, resources from the FPI and implementation by the regions for 2017, there is a long delay in projects and this is because the whole process was put on the autopilot. Management in the regions had no experience of such projects, no assistance and advice was given by the Ministry, no programme was monitored as required by the Ministry, so there has been delays in the projects for over two and a half years. Nearly no structure has yet been implemented. The Ministerial Decision 63439 on the selection of bodies for the development and operation of mental health establishments has many problems, as this is apparent from the decisions of the Proceedings Review Authority, after having accepted appeals against the results. In relation to the newspaper of the psychiatric structures of the hospitals of the ESS, although the coordination work of the PDITOPHY existed by law until July, the newspapers came out of the office of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Health, without the slightest involvement of the PDYTHY. With regard to your reference to the development of a mechanism to support mental health services at central and regional level, the development of a quality assessment body for mental health units and dependency treatment, the preparation of therapeutic protocols and guidelines, and the financing of the JEPs are acknowledgedly necessary actions, but you left them on paper. For four years the story of the closure of the Private Psychiatry "Palalladion" had become a joke. Finally, for unintentional imports, which you refer to in your question, we should note that the ministerial decision on the conditions for unintentional hospitalisation of patients in private psychiatric clinics has not been adopted, which we will make. One minute, Madam President, to mention the next steps taken by the government in the field of mental health. With regard to the update of "SYCHARGOS", which is an extremely important tool in the negotiations for the new ESRB, the timely acceptance of the strategic and operational project "SYCHARGIS" was indeed a timeless success of the political system. We aim to draw up a new "SYCHARGIS" which will be a commitment of our country for the next five years. To that end, a committee of scientists and stakeholders will be set up immediately, which will draw conclusions in 2020. With regard to our direct intervention in the field of mental health, we are improving the relevant legislation by simplifying procedures and transfering substantial responsibilities to the Health Regions, upgrading the Central Department of the Ministry of Health to effectively carry out its work and addressing the needs of mental health with the interconnection of mental health with the Primary Health Care, Public Health and Social Integration. We are dealing with these actions within the community and the local health service network. We accelerate the staffing and improvement of psychiatric clinics in general hospitals, both adults and adolescents. We review the system of financing all mental health: Public structures and NGOs with specific cost and quality criteria, thus strengthening control, performance and transparency procedures. We are speeding up the procedures of the NRP in regional programmes to integrate new structures, special population groups, such as disabled patients and so on. In addition, the Ministry prioritises the development and implementation of quality standards in mental health. That is why we will take a legislative initiative to make it possible to carry out the work in question by the Hellenic Psychiatric Society, which is also the most important scientific body of the mental health of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Xanthos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u90	Minister, what I understand from your answer is that you are generally accepting the design that has been in the previous period and trying to initiate interventions leading to the final objective, which is the completion of psychiatric reform, which is a progressive vision, a vision of equality and decent social care for a vulnerable group of the population. I said exactly what happened in a time of crisis, in a period of great difficulties and in a period of cutbacks. They opened up new structures. Over eighty with ninety public psychiatric beds were added to the public health system, when in the previous period there were cuts, cuts in parts, abolition of entire hospitals, abolition of public structures, when people were being made available, with continuous cuts in resources and human and material in the health system. In a period of austerity we have invested in mental health and institutional and organisational and functionality. You've done six months to give responsibilities. The ministry took six months to assign the mental health authority to someone. You have despaired the Department of Psych health. Ten employees have five left. You haven't taken one step. Today you announced some initial thoughts on this field after seven months of policy exercise. It's obvious that this case isn't high on your agenda. Because we all understand that the issue of mental health is primarily an issue of equality between people and requires a strong public health system and a strong social state to be decent in care, I think that this is where the cause of delayed movements and slow reflexes lies. You said this before, in public, that the Prime Minister has said so: the idea of today's government is to create favourable conditions for private investment within the ESS, to give private insurance companies a vital place for investment and wealth and profit production. This is the idea rather than protecting with nails and teeth this problematicly organised and hurt by the crisis - with open wounds yet - a public health system. So I strongly recommend that you take a close look at mental health issues. There was a delay. That requires a great deal of involvement. All these regionally decentralised administrations and the scientific committees and, in particular, the committees for the protection of the rights of receiving health services, all this system that shields and strengthens social control and democracy needs time to organise and operate. I wish you guys could speed it up. I think this should be the axis on which you need to move. I hope that additional resources will be found in the ESRB to increase public structures, beyond what we have planned, but I think that, in general, this line is not disputed. I think that should be clear, but it is not reflected. I read the New Democracy programme carefully, which you yourself presented. In the mental health part there is no word for the transformation of asylum. I want to know something. I understand what you said we were going to a new programme. I realized that this objective remains. I think it's a national obligation. It is a very important reform that we must - especially now, that we are out of a memorandum and out of a budget suffocation - in a simpler way to invest more resources and move forward. That is why I think it is good, Mr Minister, to be a little pitiful in the magnificence of great sensitivity to vulnerable groups. Here is the definition of vulnerability. So it is good to take advantage of the acquis, the steps taken and to try to speed up and force things in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u91	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Xanthi, the mental health sector is a priority for our government. We have taken concrete action in the last six months. First of all, we had to print, we had to get the situation together. I told you what we received. I mentioned the positive steps taken by the previous government, which we intend to keep, extend and improve. I am pleased that you offer a climate, a mood of consensus and cooperation in this sensitive part of mental health. In nothing mental health must fall short of our other actions as far as the health system is concerned. As far as our communications on the protection of these vulnerable groups are concerned, let me say that we mean it, it is not just words. We do not think that we are less socially sensitive than the previous government, we are barely showing our social sensitivity and our willingness not to leave any of our fellow citizens behind, not to leave any need uncovered. From what I have said, you realise that there is a specific plan in the field of mental health, which is slowly unfolding. Of course, we are open to any proposals and improvements there are, but we should also be sure that the money paid by the Greek taxpayer is going to get a place. There are transparent programme management procedures and there are concrete and measurable results in terms of our policies being implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft Law of the Ministry of Civil Protection: "National Mechanism for Crisis Management and Risk Management, Restructuring of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, Upgrading of a System of Voluntary Civil Protection, Reorganisation of the Fire Corps and other provisions". We are entering the last question of today's meeting, in the sixth under number 403/21-1-2020, a topical question by MP B2's West Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas Arsenis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Taking up smog through the "drying" of the heating allowance". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vessiropoulos, will answer. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Undersecretary, this is very important. Sailing is still a phenomenon that has come to us with the crisis, with the memorials. He's still tormenting the citizens of this country. From the citizens of Ioannina we were informed and encouraged to make this question. There are many times exceeding the limits and the state of discomfort is too great. The question is what the government can do. We come with two specific proposals. First, areas with frequent episodes of smog entering zone I of the heating allowance. That makes sense. We don't need the heating allowance only where the trouble is due to the debris. We need the heating allowance to fight the smog as well. The second question is why this heating allowance should be an oil premium in practice. Here we call on the state to take concrete measures that we are proposing to make this allowance green as a result of all the policies we are called upon to have against climate change. In particular, they could cover private participation in “I am at home saving”. It could be covered through the allowance by the photovoltaic installation and the priority for the integration of these households into the net metering. They could turn fireplaces into energy, giving us 70% less consumption. There could be support for local communities to produce wooded pilgrims with the direct supervision of forest services. These are concrete proposals. We want your location. We want you to take immediate measures because the smog, unfortunately, has an impact not only on quality of life but on life itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, as you know, the heating allowance is aimed at alleviating citizens. Our Government not only expanded the criteria and the number of beneficiaries, but also introduced its payment until December 31, 2019. This means that the beneficiaries have already received the allowance and will not expect to be paid months later, as was the case in the past. I have to tell you, Mr Colleague, that we all have environmental sensitivities. The problem of atmospheric pollution from fireplaces or old technology burners is not treated with magic solutions. They need targeted incentives and interventions. And several of them are at the level of implementation. I would remind you that the 'Home-to-house' programme, among other things, is considered eligible for the upgrading of heating systems. I should also tell you that the action "Replacement of oil heating systems with residential natural gas systems" that was part of the NRP 2007-2013, which concerned Attica, Central Macedonia and Thessaly, was implemented. Fifty thousand households were subsidised to replace the old oil heating systems with natural gas systems. The aim is to replace natural gas heating oil in domestic heating systems in order to reduce the cost of the atmosphere. It is also expected that a second cycle of this action will be called for, with a strong social profile, as it will concern housing located in areas of Attica with low gas penetration and low income owners. With regard to the areas to which you have referred and which present a serious problem with the slump, such as Volos and Larissa, a corresponding action under the 2014-2020 Operational Programme of the Region of Thessaly is expected to be launched to replace oil heating systems with natural gas systems in residential areas in Thessaly. So you realise that this is a complex attempt. It gradually develops, requires the creation and exploitation of financial programmes and the awareness of citizens and society. Of course, there will also be changes in the philosophy and structure of the heating allowance, which should be given a social and environmental mark. On this matter, however, I shall refer to my denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Minister. Your Honor, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President. Undersecretary, I understand that there are many programmes which can assist in the direction we are discussing, such as 'I save at home' or the programme you mentioned in the NSRP to replace burners. But here we have an already ready-to-date programme which finally subsidises the consumption of oil at a time when we are all talking about rehabilitation from oil. Even you, who promote mining, say you mostly want natural gas as a transition fuel. And yet, we are still subsidising the combustion of oil. Obviously, we must support citizens who have energy poverty. There must be no citizen with energy poverty. But this must be done in modern ways, giving incentives. Citizens can use this money, which will give them a flexibility. And I'm talking about the same amounts, I'm not saying you should raise them, though. But right now, I'm asking you for something else. I ask you, with the same amounts, to have the same flexibility, to use them for the energy savings of their buildings, covering their own participation in "I Save House", so that families who have difficulty in participating because of economic hardship can fill this gap and be able to shield their homes against cold, but also in the heat that is escalating with climate change. Similarly, the photovoltaics on the roof will give them energy autonomy and if you want a wealth. They could use this money accumulators to get the photovoltaics and get into PPC's net metering system and the other bodies that will be opened in this continuous process. I am referring to specific things that can help citizens financially, but also to get away from the vicious cycle of energy poverty. As far as energy fires are concerned, it is less important, but it concerns the issue of smog. These proposals are specific, we do not claim their paternity. We're just asking you to examine them. We believe that they are compatible with your notices too, regardless of whether we often disagree on how you implement your thoughts, especially as regards oil mining, for example. But we think you should look at them, see whether you can integrate them and implement them, because I believe that it will take us a step forward to the public, I hope, a fight to tackle climate change, but also the glamour that today affects huge parts of the areas inhabited by Greeks, such as Thessaloniki, Volos, Larissa, the Yannina, that is, large urban centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u100	Mr Colleagues, first of all I find it useful to make two clarifications. The first is that the previous government had passed a law provision whereby the heating allowance should not exceed EUR 58 million. In order for the Ministry of Finance to be able to give the increased allowance of EUR 68 million, we had to abolish the above provision by law. Also, for the first time, the mountain municipalities of the 1st zone, treated as plains until now, received additional allowance. Also, mountain communities belonging to municipalities that have not been classified as mountainous receive a higher allowance of 20%, as planned for mountain municipalities. The second clarification is that the heating allowance will also be granted for the year 2020-2021 and this is a government commitment. As I told you, we want the heating allowance, except for a social sign, to obtain an environmental mark. For this reason, the Ministry of Finance intends to draw up an integrated and specialised study in order to take account of environmental indicators and other forms of heating beyond that of oil in order to achieve the best environmental footprint. It is clear in this context that we will also look at the integration of new renewable energy sources, as will the question of adapting the areas. It is also taken into account that we will also take into account recent developments at European level to tackle climate change and reduce the price of pollutants, with a view to climate neutrality by 2050, which are included in the European Green Agreement. We want this study to be based on rationality, to set limits as far as possible and to be based on real data. Our aim is for this study to be completed in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u101	I too, Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-01-31-S1-commons.u102	With the agreement of the House at 13.10 p.m., the sitting on Monday, February 3, 2020, at 16.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the debate on topical questions; and (b) the debate on the number 6/5/12-122-2019 of President Fotinis (Photinis) Genomes and Members of the Change Movement on the subject: "The primary sector is at a dead end, and immediate intervention is needed for his development".
