ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 6-10-2020, the minutes of its Third Session of Tuesday 6 October 2020, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Amendment of Law 4557/2018 (A' 139) on the prevention and suppression of money laundering and terrorist financing — Incorporation into Greek law of Directive (EU) 2018/843 (L156) and Article 3 of Directive (EU) 2019/2177 (L334) and other provisions’]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Mr Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis informs the House that the timely questions to be discussed are as follows: The numbers. 4/5-10-2020, 10/5-10-2020, 12/5-10-2020, 14/5-10-2020, 26/5-10-2020, 28/5-10-2020 and 2020 topical questions will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Mavroudi Voridis. Also, the number. 25/5-10-20 a timely question will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Interior, Mr Theodoros Livanios. The 23/5-10-2020 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Antagonism of the Municipality of Aristotle of Regional Unity (PES) of Halkidiki", as well as the 15/5-10-2020 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "A cleaner per school is not enough to deal with the pandemic" will not be discussed in consultation. We are now entering the debate of the first under number 45/10-2020 in the first cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Agricultural support measures in the areas affected by the 'January' cyclone. Here, Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are today discussing the disasters from 'Janus', the recent bad weather in Thessaly, in Western Greece, in the Ionian Islands and in some areas of Central Greece, one day important to democracy and justice. Today, after five-and-a-half years of the murder of Paul Bryssa, the case is expected to be dealt with and the decision, which is palliative to be the one that suits the killers, the Nazi criminals of the Golden Dawn. They're not innocent. According to the records made in the previous period, throughout the area of Thessaly, in parts of Central Greece, in Ionian, in western Greece, we have thousands of flooded areas, we have damaged infrastructure, rural roads, bridges, urban infrastructure, we have stable facilities, we have beeswaxed away, and all within a context where houses and entire villages have been covered with mudwater, the building has disappeared, it has been thrown away and while it has to be restored so that life can continue in the area, the expected income, obviously - because we were close to cultivation and all the costs of cultivation have been nullified. As you can see, despite the meetings - the meetings are not enough - producers have not yet seen any substantial aid, so that they can cope with the costs of both construction and cultivation. That is why we are asking you today for substantial answers on what tools you have set or are going to activate and what is the timetable for this. It is not just farmers who are waiting for the answers here. Because the region of Thessaly is a purely rural area and is based on the rural economy, as you have seen in the recent rally of the previous days, the answers are waiting for the entire region, the whole society of Thessaly, so that it can see how it will proceed in this difficult winter without incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the disaster is very great. What happened on September 18 and 19 was unprecedented. What I can tell you in terms of data is that, first of all, the necessary points from ELGA's geotechnical services have been made to the affected crops. In Thessaly we have cotton, corn, horticultural, horticultural, horticultural, tobacco, tree crops. In Central Greece we have cotton, corn, vegetables, sugar beet. In western Greece, Achaia, Elia and Corinth and Ionian islands we have olives, vegetables, vineyards, corn. In Itolocarnania, we have rice, corn and non-alcoholic. Five hundred and eighty - nine plant announcements and seven hundred livestock announcements were made. The damage statements relating to herbal capital amount to in Thessaly, in the fifteen thousand ninety-four declarations, in Central Greece, in the two thousand seven hundred nineteen declarations, in Western Greece, in the four thousand seventeen hundred sixty-one declarations and in the Ionian islands in the five thousand-eighty-five declarations. The flooded agricultural area in the areas of Thessaly and Phthytidos is estimated at about 390 thousand acres, while in the other areas the declarations submitted relate to an area of forty thousand acres. The final date for the submission of statements was Monday 5-10-2020, but by decision of the Board of Directors of ELGA an extension was granted for the areas of the Larissa, Lamia, Patras and Agrinio branch until Monday 12 October to facilitate the producers affected. The work of assessments has already begun and continues in the next few days. It is considered, if possible, that overall assessments are made in areas where there is a homogeneity of damage in the areas and the damage is very high - that is defined by the Plant Production Insurance Regulation - and personalised assessments where there is no homogeneity of damage in the various affected areas. They were also caused losses from those in livestock. We had a loss of livestock in fourteen thousand ovine and caprine, seven hundred fifty cattle and thirty - six thousand eighty - sixty - sixty - one beehives, about. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] In cases where the floods dragged the dead animals from the area where the beehives were stationed or carried out, assessments by three-member committees will be carried out. Since my time has elapsed in the protology, I will come back for the compensation mechanisms.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u5	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u6	If I may, in order to finish the chapter of determining the estimates and what we have done so far, let you know that in addition to permanent geotechnical staff, ELGA has been staffed with seventy geotechnics and in Thessaly, where there are greater damages, it will also be staffed with fifty seasonal geotechnic staff. Also, because these people are working at a pace in order to make this huge project, because as you can see, this damage is unprecedented and too great and quite unusual for the data of assessments and the amount of estimates that the ELGA has to make, there will be specific legislation to cover their overtime and to cover some recruitments, which will come next few days and have the opportunity to place Parliament on it. This is a small part of what we will do to meet these requirements. Now, in my dentistry, so as not to take more time, I will talk about this particular way and the compensation mechanism.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u7	Here, Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u8	Indeed, we have not heard anything about the mechanisms in your prototype. We heard a record, yeah. ELGA workers were indeed from the first hour in the floods and they deserve congratulations to these people. But here we also have an issue that will be given the opportunity to discuss it in the next few days. Fifteen ELGA workers, valuers, who have been working for nearly decades - some and over decades - on a judicial decision were out. The decision was not favourable. It is for them that there is a need for legislation immediately. At this time when we need staff in ELGA, these people cannot be found outside the organization. These are people who have been experienced, and they have been colleagues who have offered the agency all these years. It is therefore necessary to find a way to prevent ELGA from being carried out any longer. As far as the method of assessment is concerned, we did indeed ask for Article 18(2) to be activated at the first hour on the Agency's direct assessments. However, what matters today is not just the mechanisms, where we will all hear and judge whether they are sufficient. As far as speed is concerned, your Government has not shown the required speed, given the circumstances, in Thessaly. And that's not what we say. It's called the chambers, it's called the agencies. They say that even 5% has not been restored so far - it is also said by the mayors, but also by the district manager, who is on your side - that no money has been given, no access to many areas, and also the bridges in many places, and in many remote villages - from what I have heard yesterday - there is still no electricity and access to clean water. So you haven't shown good examples of writing about responding immediately to such difficult and extreme conditions. The next issue, however, that I wanted to discuss, is my second question, namely what action you are going to take, so that you can shield these regions from flooding. I would like to start a debate today on anti-milling projects, with the perimeter dams in Thessaly, where they work so for water savings these days. Because of climate change, we have rainfall that is causing flooding phenomena, while in summer we do not have irrigation water. This debate I would like to start with in dentistry. I therefore expect us to make at least commitments on what institutional tools you have set up so far, but also on what mechanisms - national and European - not only for producers' lost income, but also for rural infrastructure: roads, irrigation public networks, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u9	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Look, "delayed" is SYRIZA's favorite review. But, Mr Arachovitis, let us inform the people and citizens of what the time, the usual, the one that was followed in your days, when we are talking about ELGA compensation. It is therefore a statement, an assessment, a finalisation of the assessment and a course to be made. The course to be paid, as you know, is for the losses of the previous year in June of the following year by 65% and in December of the following year the remaining 35%.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u11	The ELGA.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u12	You're talking about delay. If, then, the normal procedure was followed, that is, what we always follow in all the damages of the ELGA, the time that one would expect to receive compensation would be June 2021 in 65% and December 2021 in 35%. Let's go see what happens now, 'cause you're talking about delay. And the delay is that we are currently in the 20 days. On the 19th day of the month it was destroyed and about fifteen to twenty days have elapsed.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u13	They shall be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u14	But you're saying we're late. I'm coming to ELGA now. You will have the pleasure of voting with us - I hope you will agree - amendments to the ELGA regulation which, firstly, will allow us to make an advance without a limitation on the amount of the advance. So that is what will allow us to hope for mid-October - that is, in fact, in the next few days - to pay a very brave amount of compensation to all the affected. So what we are going to do is legislation. And secondly, I'm going to give you an assessment, Mr. Arachovitis, of the damage. This damage is in order - first of all, I am talking about compensation to be granted by the ELGA - of 100 million. You realise that the ELGA with a total budget of 170 million, when it pays losses annually around 205 million - we have said that - would fail to cope with it. The only way to cope is that there has been the commitment - and it is implemented - to the Prime Minister that the ELGA will be strengthened by the regular budget and, in fact, by its reserve. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So this is a process that has already begun. The legal basis on which the budget will be strengthened will be the basis that we have already opened with our previous act, when we supported ELGA with 35 million. In other words, sums that should have been legally allocated to the ELGA and not already provided by previous governments, including your government, will be given. And these amounts will be allocated just as aid for the operational costs of the ELGA, as laid down in the law, but to be used for these allowances. In other words, we will be able to strengthen and compensate. Therefore, amounts will be transferred to the ELGA. Secondly, what will happen is that within the next period we will be voting - in the week I hope, otherwise at the beginning of next week - on the amendment of the ELGA regulation. Genuine compensation will be granted. And all the compensation will be paid, but since substantial and generous advances have been made - as I have said - with final declarations, we hope, until the beginning of January next year. Do I have one more minute, Mr. President? May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u15	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u16	There is still a very important part to be played on which dossiers are being created at the moment and we have called on producers to declare their damage to us. This is no longer the part that ELGA can compensate, but it is excluded from ELGA compensation. In particular, I am talking about compensation for damaged infrastructures, for example, buildings, stacks, warehouses, machines, tires, other types of agricultural machinery. This is not covered by ELGA compensation. There should therefore be special provision from the exculpatory mechanism of the European Union in order to be granted state aid. However, there must be individual assessments of injury. So we want statements, which will also be accompanied by evidence. And because I said the word 'proof material', let me say something. I tell you, I tell Parliament more so that it can be heard more widely. We will be there and we are there to support a severe and badly affected region and to support our producers. We want to support the producers affected. So the statements must be honest. This is not an opportunity for statements to be made, which are obviously insensitive. So I would like to say this in all respects, and I would also like to point out here that they are not simply insinuating against the money of the taxpayers or of the insured of the ELGA, and therefore, in fact, they receive money that is not justified, misusing these possibilities, but that is money which is actually deprived of the other hurt ones that should be used in order to be able to restore the damage. So this is going to be the second one too. Thirdly, with regard to infrastructure, the issue of irrigation infrastructure - because it concerns us directly as the Ministry of Rural Development - we will begin to discuss it. There's damage to irrigated grooves. There we will see whether these damages need to be restored - because these irrigation intacts are old, they are 1950s - or we will have to move on to a new project that now has to do with modern irrigation infrastructures. Because this will obviously take more time, we will need a consultation there with the producers and we will start to do both the GMOs and the TWGs to see how we are going to solve this. Because you have had a debate on the flooding, I can tell you that it is not a matter of the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development - as you know - the flooding. Anti-military projects are built, designed, executed by the regions and only anti-military projects characterised as national projects go to the Ministry of Infrastructure. That is therefore a question - that is, the part of the anti-military armour - which you must address to either the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Infrastructure to answer for anti-military protection. So I'm not competent to answer you for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u17	We continue with the debate of the second under number 12/5-10-2020 on a topical question by Congressman Halkidiki of the Change Movement Mr.Astalos Pana to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "To a dead end producers of edible olive and olive oil from Halkidiki and all over the country, due to suffering from pandemic and a great reduction in the price of the product." Mr. Pana, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u18	Minister, we have debated many times in this Chamber on the problems of farmers, problems that are great and unfortunately, because of the pandemic, have become even bigger and are affecting various sectors of the rural economy. Once again, however, farmers are resurrected, namely, the producers of edible olive oil and olive oil in many areas of the country, as in Halkidiki. Prices received from processors were very low and hardly covered the increased cost of production, which is on upward track every year. Invoking the existence of olive reserves, in combination with the natural disasters, which you know in Halkidiki were huge all year long, undermined the product, led to low prices for producers, thus being in despair. This situation has also been heavily burdened by the health crisis, which has led to a lack of international demand for the product. At the same time, as you know, there are issues between processors in the olive trade that have contributed very much to keeping the low price of the product. In addition, oil producers had difficulty in the part of the posterior land workers. We must say here that you were directly reflexing in order to resolve the issue. But, as you know, this has resulted in even more costs related to the coronary test in order not to jeopardise public health. Oil producers have raised these issues in time, but you understand by yourself that the issues that have arisen are very large in economic terms. We have been informed by reports and by a statement from the Ministry of Rural Development that, through Measure 21 of the Rural Development Programme submitted to the European Commission, there will be support for the olive producers. However, this support, from what we see, is only for oily olives and also for two-way olives and is not for all the producers who have several acres. This, as you can see, does not cover Halkidiki and the part of the edible olive. So I would like you to tell me what the rate of loss of income will be covered by this programme for rural development, if we have a specific timetable for this support, and of course, very importantly, what will happen with the producers of edible olives, which is a big issue that concerns many regions, like Halkidiki. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u19	The Minister has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Pana, you will only allow me to fill out my answer to the previous question. Unusual, but I imagine that you, too, are interested in what I am going to say, as it will come to Parliament anyway. There will also be a second legislative intervention, which we will ask Parliament to approve, which will say that in the case of the disasters we have previously discussed, 'January', we will enable ELGA to compensate 100% of the damage. So we increase the level of compensation, especially for the issue of these disasters. I just wanted to complete the answer because I did not include it and I do not want to surprise you by bringing this provision to the House, which will come in the form of an amendment. It is currently being processed and possibly, as I told you in the week, we need to vote on it. Mr Pana, on the matter of olives, I would first like to thank you for recognising the fact that there has been a first request made in Greece. As you know, of course, a strengthening of the olive sector has never been done before. And it has never happened in the past, not because a minister did not want to strengthen the olive or did not like the oil or had something with the oil producers. In particular, the former Minister for Rural Development, Mr Arahovitis, comes from an especially olive-growing region, Laconia. Obviously, the great problem that always exists with olive oil is the size of cultivation. There are too many acres, too many producers. Therefore, because it is our primary and diverse first crop in Greece, this is what makes the numbers that are needed too large in order to have effective and substantial aid. Our Government has done this in the context of the flexibility which has been given through the Rural Development Programme in order to make full use - I stress this - of all the possibilities offered by this measure. What does that mean? Of the EUR 126 million is the whole that allows us to use the European Regulation, in order to strengthen affected sectors from the Rural Development Programme. All this measure, as a whole, went to support our oil producers. Therefore, this is something that, if you wish, in practice the interest of our Government and for the first time we give and strengthen the oil-producing sector, the oil-seed-oil and the olive-oil, as you rightly pointed out. I will add something for which there is a debate. It is about professional farmers. Why have we chosen, if you like, to make this choice of the professional farmers, olive growers, who will be strengthened? Just for a simple reason. Obviously, because the measure is not enough to get to everyone. It's 126 million. That's what they give. Secondly, because, badly liars, we are interested in the present phase of coronary damage to production, to strengthen those who lose income, because they have no more evidence of income. Non-professional farmers have other incomes. They have an income from agricultural production, yes, but he's also a lawyer, he's also a retired, he's a civil servant. This income was not affected and, if affected, it was restored by other measures. However, the oil producer has an income and that is why we wanted to strengthen him. For table olives, I'll tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Pana, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u22	Minister, we know that the measure you have tabled to the European Commission is a full measure and concerns the range of money that needs to be met. Today, however, you understand that, in the middle of a coronary, olive growers need substantial support. You understand that yourself. I would stress that Halkidiki is a region where support for edible olive is necessary, as we must not forget that edible olive requires a significant higher cost than olive oil, as it meets quality standards. In Halkidiki, as you said, it deals with most of the rural world. So we're not just dealing with two-speed farmers. We have to deal with professional farmers as well. We still have to say this: Halkidiki is an area that this year has had to deal with huge problems not only in the agricultural sector but also in the tourism sector. So if the two major pillars are currently undergoing such a blow, you know what huge pressure the local economy is under. Even today we're talking about, we're in a local lockdown two months. This affects the local economy. So producers of edible olives and their support and in particular of the professional farmers, as well as of the farmers, are necessary. However, in addition to the support of producers in this year's difficult situation, we must also create a healthy olive market, as it is a product that you have recognised from the Stepping of the House that it will receive added value and give producers income. In this context, therefore, despite the institutional framework that is necessary, further development of cooperative action is needed. And it is very important that, in this Parliament too, initiatives have been taken with agricultural cooperatives. But we must also a year later demarcate them and see what really happened with all these initiatives. So it will also be possible to increase the income of the farmers in need. To conclude, Minister, I would like to say that it is very bad for the producer at the moment of the edible olive to give his olive at these prices. Prices are degrading. So we must finally try and respect his struggle and sweat. I would therefore like to believe, knowing the free market - and I understand the free market - that, from now on, we will take a number of measures in the long term in order to ensure, not only the producer, but also this national product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. The truth, then, is that there has been a disturbance - we have identified it - at the table olive level. We have examined several scenarios for strengthening table olives on this subject. We have reached the way in which the aid is to be granted. What I can tell you, Mr Colleague, at this stage is that a request for aid has been sent to the General Accounting Office. But I shall avoid - because it is not finalized - because it wants a debate with the Ministry of Finance - to tell you the amount by which the aid is to be granted. But I say to you that there has been a determination of the amount. There is also a second check carried out in the General Accounting Office. This amount will then be forwarded to the European Commission in order to approve the amount of aid. So today I tell you the government's decision to strengthen table olive by means of the state aid procedure. I say to you that the studies we have done have been carried out and finalised in order to determine the level of disturbance and the level of aid to be granted. And of course, with regard to the other issues you have raised, I still believe that, although it was a difficult year for table olive, it is an extremely dynamic product and will go much better than it did this year. This year was a very strange and difficult year. With regard to the issues that you mentioned about the Regional Unity of Halkidiki, I would say that the damages of 2019 have been paid. In particular, a total of EUR 26 865 000 has been paid. The maximum part of this amount relates to the damage to olive groves from the tornado that took place in 2019. For 2020, oilseed crops were damaged by the hails in June and July. Thousands of hundred and fifty declarations have been made, and the procedure in the ELGA is normally followed in order to provide compensation with the time we give it. So we're very interested. At institutional level, we are in agreement with the bodies and professionals representing table olive, for what we need to do as general measures to support and promote this product. We recognize its value. He's got great dynamism. It went badly this year in terms of honor. The reason is the coroner and the consequences from him. I believe that we will also end with this and that the markets will also come back to normality. In the meantime, I told you that within the next period - perhaps next week - I should like to make an announcement of the exact amounts with which the oil producers will be strengthened.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u25	We continue with the first under number 10/5-10-2020 in the second cycle of the Parliamentary Pellas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Remuneration of peach producers for the damage caused by bad weather "Thalia". Mrs. Jackres, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u26	Minister, this year, unfortunately, the protracted and untimely rainfall in early August caused great damage to the crops of table and compact peaches that were ready to be harvested. The result was a fall in production due to the fruitfall and a deterioration in quality. In fact, as you know, it is the fourth consecutive year that we have peach-crowded damage from an adverse weather phenomenon - this year was the 'Thalia' phenomenon - and it is the fourth consecutive year that Pella and Imathia are affected from outside the season by prolonged rainfall in the middle of summer and during the harvest process. The result, as I said, was the fruiting, it was the slits in the fruit bark, it was the alteration of the fruit and it was mainly the degradation of its quality. Minister, the damage caused, and here were the rainfall, which, according to the ELGA regulation, are covered from May to November. So we also have a loss-making cause and damage, which is completely covered by the regulation. From there on, ELGA should be mobilised immediately, i.e. to carry out the pre-disciplines required, to open announcements, to make statements by producers, to make assessments and, in general, to proceed quickly and to respond to requests for compensation. And you know my view that this is a covered loss by the ELGA regulation, not only in my own personal view, but it is mainly a view of the New Democracy, expressed by its local Members - and by its three local Members - who, immediately after the weather of August, stated in a press release that this is a normal procedure followed by ELGA and that the ordinary procedure will proceed. Of course, we haven't heard from each other since. They have never started notification procedures, never made statements, and the producers have never been appreciated at the moment when we are talking about are resurrected and uneasy, because they do not know whether or not they will be compensated, because the Ministry of Rural Development has not formally made any announcements. I would like to tell you, Minister, that in any case we are not asking for charity. What Pella and Imathia producers are asking for is fair compensation. They want their main insurer, ELGA, to whom they normally pay contributions, to stand by and help them stand up after this new disaster. I think that these rainfalls came like a pot in the cake - let us say it in this sense - in an unpredictable year, and only the fact that we have for the fourth consecutive year exceptional rainfalls, prolonged in the middle of summer that caused damage to the cultivation of peaches, tables and contributors, this in itself suggests that this is not an extraordinary event, for an extraordinary event, but a regularity, as things have done, Minister, for a normal phenomenon in the context of climate change, which should be addressed by the ELGA regulation. What we are calling for here is for the institutional and regulatory framework of the ELGA to be applied.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u27	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the damage to Pella caused by hails, rainfall, windstorm August 2020, the beginning of August, 19 and 25, in trees, mainly peaches, nectarines in the wider area of the regional sections of Pella and Imathia have been labelled by the geotechnical services of ELGA. There have been hundreds of ten announcements and two thousand four hundred twenty - two statements of damage. The assessments, as you know, are carried out in accordance with the rules of the agricultural science of the ELGA Vegetable Production Regulation and in accordance with the above, by the labellings carried out by ELGA's geotechnical services, have not been found on these crops - peaches and nectarines - damages with indemnification rates from the rainfall of August last year, but damages were observed by fungiological insults, mainly monolines, because they were not covered by the Vegetable Production Insurance Regulation. And then ELGA, if you please, considers that the issue of the integration of these losses should be considered in a programme of State financial aid. What I am saying to you is that we are considering another form - because it is not covered by the EPHR - of aid, which we are already preparing. It will, of course, be in accordance with Community regulations and requirements. We are already preparing it and I will announce it in the next few years, but since I have all the facts and, above all, the economic sizes of the injury printing. What I would like to say to you, because you have pointed out an issue that has dealt with us very much, and I consider your position to be extremely interesting here, not only in relation to the regional section of Pellas and Imathia, but obviously also with these regional sections, has something to do with phenomena, which have a perseverance - they are becoming and recurring - or are characterised by extreme weather or phenomenon that can be attributed to climate change. The first issue - and I must point out - is that, unfortunately, when the previous Programme for Rural Development was drawn up, there was indeed a special measure and provision - that was designed in the government of New Democracy by the then Ministers for Rural Development - for amounts that could be used to compensate for climate change, for damage caused by climate change or due to extreme weather conditions. The choice made by the SYRIZA government was that it did not leave any funds within this measure. The amounts were deducted from this measure and therefore the measure was not activated when. Now what we are going to do is try to reduce insecurity - which is already in place in the agricultural production process because of weather and indeed is intensified by various extreme weather events that we are facing and creating pressures on the insurance body, but of course also in the budget - is that in the new Rural Development Programme, which we are now studying and which we will present in the next period, we will reinstate a measure that will have specific predictions on the issue of dealing with damage to the phenomena of such phenomena. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u29	Here, Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u30	Minister, you have obviously referred to measure 17 which enables funds to be actually activated in the event of reductions in income - in that sense - for whatever reason. They could be market distortions, they could be other issues that are dealt with, which exist almost every year, and climate change, as you mentioned earlier. No injurious cause is considered. However, I would like to say that this measure did not go ahead because it is a Community measure and because it is not necessary for information or, in any case, for inappropriate preparation, even at the Brussels level, in any country of the European Union. I wish it now in the new Rural Development Programme that this measure should be activated. It is really a useful tool, which farmers will use for many reasons and reasons, either where there are distortions in product prices due to issues that exist during commercial periods, supply or demand in any case, either on the issues of climate change. In any case, however, I think that what you need to see is that the phenomenon of climate change is integrated into the ELGA Regulation. I think it is the most important tool and way of dealing with these risks, Minister, which, as you can see, is not, as I said in my prototype, any extraordinary events, but common situations in the context of climate change - in a comprehensive way, so that producers know each time what they have to do and in any case know where they will be compensated. I am now returning to this issue of rainfall, which you said the ELGA concluded that this is obviously not a loss cause covered by the regulation once again and that you are going to do as a ministry in looking for other instruments for its funding. Obviously, you refer to the de minimis programmes that have been used in the past. I, however, used, in this case, Minister, as I said in my protagonist, arguments used by the New Democracy when it was opposition, because I told you that this was the fourth time we were dealing with this phenomenon, where your local parliamentarians - I did not say, of course, that Mr Mitsotakis will speak about this - they referred to this phenomenon as being fully provided for by the existing ELGA insurance regulation, Minister, without even changing the existing regulation. They talked about rainfall, and I join in this regard, and I do much more when we see it for the fourth consecutive year, and I think it should be seen as such. Now, if you are going to make de minimis allowances, I would ask you, Minister, not to do so in the way you did last year, where you have given too little late. I will only remind you that you have given five prefectures of EUR 10 million for all of these phenomena, you have given only EUR 70 for table varieties and EUR 50 for nectarines. You completely pulled out the compact peaches that are in trouble this year. And in any case, the New Democracy, with local MPs, again accused SYRIZA of giving crumbs, while in the course of the previous year it gave 13.5 million euros and compensated for the peach porch, 120 euros the nectarines and 50 euros the peach pond. And you accused him of giving crumbs! In any case, what has to happen - and I think we may have been delayed again - is that there should be close, good cooperation between the Ministry of Rural Development and the Central ELGA with the local store in Veroia, so that the varieties that have suffered the problem are fully recorded, Minister, since the compensation or aids - I do not know how you are going to say what you want to do and you are late and you have begun to see it - are coming to replace the compensations of the ELGA regulation that you say do not cover this weather. So that we do not have the phenomenon of previous years, first of all - first of all - of the exceptions to the compact peaches that were really a great injustice and the phenomenon of the horizontal ones, as you can see, solutions, of which some are wronged - most, as always happens - and fewer benefit, will have to look at it in this direction. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u31	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u32	Mr Colleague, because you have made reference to colleagues, I will start by saying something that I have said many times in the Chamber. I am particularly grateful to all Members from all sides, because by highlighting the issues and problems which producers have, they convey to Parliament the voice and anguish of the producers on a number of issues. So all my colleagues and you are doing your job extremely well, highlighting these issues. However, where there is any damage, you will allow me to say that it is an issue which, as you can see, is primarily the responsibility of the agency. It is judged by the agency, because the service, i.e. the geopolitics and the assessors, will provide us with the data. We cannot abstain from this process, because you realise that if we get out of this process, then everyone will come to do their own assessment, whether it is a valid body or an invalid body. But he'll make his own assessment of something that happened. So the assessors will give us the real data, the size of the damage, all the real dimension we need, so that we can then do the work of subjecting to the ELGA regulation. The process of subsistence, which is a legal work, is also primarily to be done by the agency. That is why I would like to say that I have full respect for my fellow Members who carry anxiety and the problem and who also want to propose an appropriate solution. All of this is respected. But ultimately, we will go through the procedure that is right to go from the point of view of public law. That is why I wanted to ask you something, because you are in doubt with the colleagues of the New Democracy, when they pointed it out, I suppose, to the administration of the ELGA and the Minister responsible for Rural Development on SYRIZA. On SYRIZA were these damages done to the ELGA? Oh, no. So I will say that the procedure to be followed was right there too. The question of the level of aid to be granted is an issue which we will deal with every time. I take very much into account what you have said. Just know that these aids are always given within Community regulations and, obviously, take into account a number of parameters. This will continue to apply, as has always been the case. Nothing's changed in this particular case. That is what we will do in the next few years, and we will also be announcing what our decisions will be to support the peach producers who have suffered this damage, which have been affected by this disaster.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u33	We continue with our second question with number 14/5-10-2020 in the second half of the Parliament's Vice-President and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr.Udyssea Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "What is the evolution of the implementation of the measures and actions announced on 19 June 2020 for the development of the Bytina State Foundation?" Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to say something today, because it is an important day for democracy, fully respecting justice. Today will be the decision on this neo-nazi formula of the Golden Dawn. We, as a party, are very proud of the fact that we have not been next to it for one day or one minute over the past few years. And I say this, because we must not forget who was with them in the lower and upper square, who were together in the presidential election, who were together in the invasion of Parliament in 2012. We must not forget who was together in the last rallys about the scorpion. But we want to believe, as the people have decided, because the people are deciding on policy issues - we are sure that justice will do the same today and we will fully respect its decision. Minister, we've spoken too many times about the Bytina State Institute. You've come there too. I am sure you will not continue SYRIZA policy for five years without doing anything. We are in second year and we have a commitment you will make to create a beekeeping museum. Today I would like to ask you quite simply, and with regard to other business escorts, what has happened. I'm waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u35	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u36	However, you must recognise, Mr Constantinople, that there is already a different attitude of this government towards the institution, in the sense that there is an interest, we have come, we have seen it, we have visited it, we have spoken with the local government. I now come to what has happened in space since your previous question, which, if I remember correctly, was three months ago or four months ago. In this, then, the quadrant and after my visit to the foundation, we have started the premeditated museum in the foundation building. The premeditation's started. She'll be ready by November 15th. Our next move will be requesting a transfer of appropriations from the SUPIK, studying the final implementation and opening of the tender for the project. We estimate that it will take us four to six months to implement this work. We therefore have a specific programming, according to what we have said, which we are 'running'. It has started and it is running. The second thing I want to tell you is that credits will be transferred - they are in progress - EUR 60 000 for the implementation of a series of direct work that we have in the environment that we have said. We have asked, therefore, and we expect that this money will be transferred to us. These are earthworks, fences and safety, and we have said that we will also be doing apiculture seminars. The apiculture seminars have already been commissioned by the IGI, the Institute for Agricultural Research, which runs similar programmes. We have had a difficulty here, which is called COVID -19, and that is what has destabilised us in this regard. We are now trying to do these seminars in the form of teleconferences. As you can see, however, the point of the apiculture seminars is to transfer natural presence to the Bytina to become the seminars and not to be apiculture seminars through teleconferences where participants can be all over the place. However, we are still concerned about this, because in this way we will build up the basic educational structure, the educational work, which, when the conditions allow, and we will come to normal conditions after COVID, we will be ready to organise.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u38	Minister, I think this is going to happen. I'm a man of good intentions. Of course, the premeditation, since you told us about November, we will ask you for it, because what museum will be made is very important, since what this museum will include will have to do with visitability. If, in other words, it's a museum that won't be interesting, people won't come. So this is a very important issue. We have already discussed this and we in November will be here again - we do not forget at any level - so that we can see if it will help. We also need to make it clear to all colleagues that this money is the institution's money. We're not getting them from the Greek taxpayer. We're getting them from the founder. On the second issue, beekeeping, I would say that there are protocols on COVID -19. Up to fifty people, up to thirty people, up to twenty people. So if we want the seminars to take place, they will be based on protocols, as they are done throughout Greece. Because you have actually come and seen it and I think it will have a very great interest in both Arcadia and also in general for the region - there has also been the interest of the region until it has been implemented - and the municipality, the chambers - a little difficult, of course, you understand, but in any case, let us hope that some solutions will be found between them so that we can actually get all the relevant bodies involved - the beekeepers have a strong organisation - and help them because there are objective problems. Beekeepers have been hit in recent years very much and you know it. So we could, through this whole process, help them not in economics, but in fact in how they can change their work. So, Minister, we are, firstly, waiting for the premeditation that we would like and will call for in November, so that we can at least have a little consultation, and secondly, for the seminars to be carried out on the basis of protocols. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u39	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u40	I have nothing to add. I take the honourable Member's remarks and we will come back to the matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u41	We continue with our fourth question under number 26/5-10-2020 in the second cycle of the Member of the Messinia Coalition of the Radical Left, Alexis Harisi to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'No progress in completing the tender procedure for the recovery and completion of the philatelic dam'. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have tabled this timely question for a project which, in my opinion, highlights, among other things, structural time-consuming diseases of public administration and the political system in our country. Because we are talking about a project, the philosopherial dam, which is the most critical local infrastructure project for the region, particularly for the Triphysia region, a region that has been living from the primary sector, which in recent years also has a special development in this region. It is a project which, if it works, will be irrigated by thirty-four thousand acres of cultivating land in the place of Triphyria, a project that has already completed - which is why I talked about time-consuming diseases - about fourteen years of life in trying to implement it, taking into account that it was in 2006 when the first recognition study was carried out. The project joined the Agricultural Development Programme 2007-2013 in 2008 and was auctioned with a total budget of EUR 35,3 million. Unfortunately, however, the inclusion - in 2008 - of the necessary irrigation networks for the use of the dam had not been included. The project was therefore completed at the beginning of 2017, but was at least never able to accomplish the purpose for which it was built, precisely because the accompanying projects, the networks of water supply for irrigation of agricultural parcels, had not been planned. After a very large, let me tell you, a race that took place at the time, we managed to finally join the 2014 NSRP Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020 with a budget of EUR 45.880,000, so that the necessary infrastructure could finally be created, supported by the necessary improvement projects. But since then, Minister, it has been about fifteen months and there has been little progress in relation to this project. I have asked you twice a question on this issue, you have not answered me, but I want to be positive and look forward to seeing the future. I think it is important that you are here today to answer this topical question and I have tried very briefly to describe the historic path of this work. What I want to say today is very simple: what is the timetable, how will the tendering and implementation of this project proceed? I think it is something which after all these years has finally deserved to be informed today, with this timely question, is the opportunity, the inhabitants of the region, the farmers in the region, but I think the whole local society, who lives essentially from the primary sector in this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u43	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u44	I welcome your sensitivity, first of all, Mr Colleague, on this matter. I just don't want to look at the past, but I'll take a glimpse of it in the past. Because, if I remember correctly, SYRIZA took over the administration - correct me, Mr President - in January 2015. Also, if I remember correctly, I see here that his accession by decision of the Minister for Rural Development is on 2-7-2019. We therefore have four and a half years of real inertia on this issue. You were, however, a minister in this government, and I imagine you would have exhausted every opportunity to exert your influence on the then Minister for Rural Development in order to speed up the procedures. I am sure that you have done so, but your influence might not have been effective enough, because, after four and a half years, in fact, in a pre-election period, this accession took place. I hope it would make it easier for you in the pre-elections. I do not know if you have used it, but in any case it would not be bad, since it was the end of the day. I say this now, from then on, what has happened to this day. It has therefore become the budget for the construction of projects, which is made up of EUR 31,680,000. There there - I would like to draw a little attention to this decision - a chapter called the EUR 5.700,000 expropriations, archaeology of EUR 100,000, an orthodox budget of EUR 100,000, a PPC budget of EUR 100,000, and has a total budget for all the projects required, with co-financing from the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. To proceed with the work, what should be done? Veterinarian tables and charts for the whole area to be expropriated should be completed and therefore the three hundred forty-two acres, which are complete, with approved census and tables, have been recorded. Two hundred and twenty-eight acres are left to complete the area required for the expropriation. We quickly, in other words on 29 to 2020, took a decision at the Ministerial Council. We have taken a decision with Act 12 that made the specific project subject to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 7A of the Immigration Exemption Code and was authorised by the competent bodies to declare expropriations for the project concerned. It means that we have put this project in the accelerated process. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Do I have a minute, Mr. President? I think maybe we won't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u45	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u46	On this basis, the procedure for declaring expropriation in cooperation with the competent authorities - a forest office, a real estate agency - is expected to be completed in about eight to ten months with this accelerated procedure. At the same time, it will be followed that budget and invoicing should be updated. According to the latest single invoices, a tender issue will be made, and all the necessary documents will be sent properly validated and deemed to be in the Special Service for the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for the required pre-authorisation of a tender. Finally, our assessment is that we will be able to auction the sub-project of construction. This will be the first quarter of 2021. On the subject of the drafting of a memorandum - you are asking me about the memorandum in the question with the Ministry of Culture - in order for this signature to take place, there is a need for the tendering of the work and for the expropriations for the areas where the pumping has been built and wherever else, in order to make sense of the memorandum of cooperation, because otherwise it makes no sense. So, in conclusion, we are following it, we are moving on, it has been the Ministerial Council, the accelerated decisions have been adopted, and I have given you the timetable for the work.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u47	Here, Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u48	I will only need thirty seconds, Mr President. First of all, Minister, you probably forgot to say what I said before, but in the four years of SYRIZA the project was completed in 2017. That's not a little bit of a thing. However, I also spoke of timeless weaknesses and delays. That concerns us all. And I do not want to hide when we have such important projects that are delaying for administrative or political reasons throughout this long period of fourteen years. I think it is good that, at last, you are actually tabling a timetable for the completion of the project. So you are talking about auctioning in the first quarter of 2021, and then the memorandum of cooperation with the Ministry of Culture will proceed. We'll be here. We'll watch it. I really hope that we can keep up with these timetables so that this much-needed project finally completes and plays the very important role it has to play in the Trinity region and our primary sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u49	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President, I have nothing to complement.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u51	You will be waiting for us, Minister, for the next question, because Mr Kegeroglu is also a secretary of the Change Movement and has a job in his office. Settle for very few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u52	The sitting shall be resumed. We will discuss the fifth with the Minister for Rural Development and Food No. 28/5-10-2020 appropriate question by Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vasilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Support measures and exceptional financial support for the beekeepers of Crete". Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. It is now captured that many branches of our economy and, of course, our economy have been affected by the restrictive measures taken to combat the health crisis and tackle the pandemic. Some sectors, however, are particularly damaged and are those related to the main economic activity which has been affected, i.e. tourism. The reduced disposal of honey production - precisely because of its connection and availability in the tourism sector, whether it is the focus, whether it is hotels, or in general commercial activity and marketing from retail points - has cost a great deal of money to the four thousand producers in Crete, who are asking for your support, given that they do not actually receive a subsidy, but a form of support from an operational programme. I believe that the Ministry must immediately - and that is what we are asking - take important measures to support them, given that, as long as local production is not supported, so much room is left for Greekization and imports. Support for producers, support for local production is a barrier to the unfair practices of certain importers, who rename what they import into Greek. In this sense, I would like you to inform the House and, through their Parliament, beekeepers of the measures you intend to take from now on, which you have already taken, and of course, as far as Crete is concerned, because the pillar of tourism is very basic - if we have special measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, it has been rightly pointed out that beekeeping is based on the Rural Development Programme in any case, but I will be speaking in particular, because that is something that is a more general support programme, and here, in my opinion, we have a specific issue, which is linked to the coronary disorder and which I shall tell you about. In any case, there is a total grant for action 3.1 set at EUR 2.020,000. The action involved a thousand and thirteen beekeepers from the four regional sections of Crete, who are most interested in the current question. The amount due for 2020 is specifically for the Region of Crete at EUR 350,937,54. A total grant of EUR 3.216 000 was fixed in the implementation of Action 3.2. The amount of aid per movable hive was fixed at EUR 3,44. The action involved 684 beekeepers from the four regional units of Crete. The amount due for 2020 shall be EUR 770,680,40. At the same time, in my decision, there was further action and there four beneficiaries participated in it, with a total amount of EUR 19,812. So there is a special care and care in the Rural Development Programme for apiculture. However, there has been this disorder we've detected. There is already a study to be carried out at the Ministry of Rural Development to calculate the level of the disturbance and, respectively, to support the apiculture sector. This, of course, will not only concern Crete, but will apply to the whole apiculture in Greece. In the next few years we will be announcing the amount of this support and the beneficiaries of these amounts.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear that there has been no valuation of the injury suffered by the industry. We hope that this will be done soon, because on this basis measures will also be planned. Of course, we are not talking about compensation for the loss of income in this period, but on the occasion of this damage, we are giving that support to beekeeping, so that it can strengthen its competitive character and at the same time address the problem of Hellenisation. It is very important that, if you, Minister, with the tools you have, the Rural Development Programme and especially for the period that will begin in the coming period, prioritise the support of apiculture, apiculture and, of course, with specific actions that will highlight the qualitative superiority of Greek honey and particularly specific regions. This is where we would like and want to see the producers - because, yes, you have taken some measures, but they are not satisfied with them and they are waiting for more - to try to support local production now with the comparative advantages that each has. Especially for Crete, you know very well that an effort has already been made to get the title of PDO in honey in Crete, to assign this title to the pineapple, a combination which, due to the particular climatic conditions and the plants from which bees draw the raw material has special characteristics. This effort has not been fully achieved, and what we want is for you to support it, so that it can be completed. It takes encouragement and support, of course, to deal with competition - because there is competition at this level too - of local beekeeping plants. You know from scientists, from producers, that these special features exist for Crete. However, because there is a overthrow in the environment and an intense competition that leads to their destruction leads to their marginalisation, these elements really do not help to continue to produce quality honey with the characteristics we have spoken about. So we would also like to see measures in this direction. On the occasion, Minister, see again certain sectors of particular production, which are not of great economic size, but are crucial to the people who are being mobilized in these areas - I have put it before you - such as aromatic plants, which have not been included in support measures. Not only are they not included in support measures, but they cannot have both the Ministry of Finance and the corresponding facility, while they are experiencing the same problems, and I would say worse, because they are also a sector linked to tourism and their damage is too great. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u58	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. I simply want to point out this, without disagreeing with Mr Kegeroglu: The choice we have made - and I think it is a good choice - is that we should leave - in order to study the disturbance in honey - to go away the tourist season to study the impact of the tourist season, as an important part of honey production is being channelled mainly into mornings and therefore we should see how this period will affect and what kind of disturbance this will have been because of tourism. We had to do this, so that we could have a clear picture now that the tourist season is over, although in Crete, which I was recently in, the tourist season is still running, that is, fortunately, we still have open hotels and some of them are very well equipped. I therefore tell you that this is why the assessment is now being made and will start now, because we had to have a full picture. On the other hand, Mr Kegeroglu points out - and rightly so - the question of standardisation, and indeed, along with a high-quality certification. I because, anyway, I love Cretan honey, I think it has particular and specific characteristics. We need a consultation between producers and I want to encourage them to do that. I would like to say publicly that PDO products get a meaning when they have a certain size, a certain quantity. To make PDOs with completely local features has an added value, but we realise that it also creates a commercial restriction. It therefore needs a wider understanding, so that we also have critical quantities, so that this PDO product can acquire competitive and export characteristics. Their export characteristics should also be linked to a critical size. If production is too small, then - badly lies - they have limited possibilities to develop. I say this because PDOs have very often and geographical definitions. They have areas where they say they are produced. That's not my business. I say this as a thought to the producers. I do not decide which application will be submitted for PDO products. Producers decide. I am simply saying this because if the geographical range of the PDO closes too much, then in reality we do not have the possibility of making significant productions and therefore of taking advantage of this advantage. I am talking to our producers. In Crete I discussed with them and with them about honey. I am sure they understand things. I believe that we are at a time and a course that will be transparent in the export and competitive nature of Greek agriculture. It's shown this in 2019. It was impressively 2019 results. We have a picture of exports in 2020. There are our products that are going extremely well in 2020. I think it is a dimension that we should highlight, as our import-export balance is spectacularly improving at the level of agricultural products. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u60	We too, Minister, thank you very much, because for one and a half hours here we are afflicting you. As you said in your speech, and it is something I always say as President-in-Office, I consider it very important for parliamentary control, because colleagues also ask important questions, but the relevant Minister, who is also informed and thus the Greek people, is on their side. In fact, you, in your capacity as Minister for Rural Development and Food, have made me aware of some things today, because almost all of the country and all of us have to deal with issues of the primary sector. Thank you very much. We're continuing with the last question for today. The third question, with number 25/5-10-2020, will be discussed in the Second Cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Leonidas Stoltides, on the subject: "Inappropriate housing for the Special Training Laboratory in Cordelios of the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki". Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Communist Party of Greece since the beginning of the year by intervention - a question has highlighted the unfavourable conditions under which the year for Special Education begins again. Long-term problems, such as building, autism, appear even more acute given the period we are going through. Unfortunately, the complex, sensitive and multiplier area of special education and education has been quarantined all the time. In other words, there was no specialist, necessary, interdisciplinary intervention for children and their families. Some cases, however, also concern this ministry are outrageous, we would say, and require immediate government intervention without half-white, bureaucratic terminology and political manoeuvres. At the Special Work of Vocational Education in Cordelio, thirty-six students and teachers are studying at a shop - an apartment with spaces on the ground floor and on the first floor, on which only teachers and children have access from narrow metal stairs. The building does not offer the possibility of prefabricating and students are taking their breaks in the inner hallway. The two existing toilets are not cleaned during the service hours due to a lack of cleaning staff. Teachers take lessons in three rooms of eight square meters, where they barely fit three students. In the first room of twenty-four squares and in the second of twenty-squares take their lessons from two or even three sections at the same time. Logotherapy and treatment are carried out in small areas separated by curtains. Let us note here that for six years now, it has been a constant demand for the demands of teachers and parents that school be migrated. This year, however, it started working under these terrible conditions, since last year's decision to transfer it to another building has not yet been implemented. The school lacks the necessary equipment, such as coils, chairs, computers and others. Sixteen years after the establishment of the school in this area, it continues to operate with the equipment given to it at the time, and even for the training of nine children. It is at least a mockery on the part of the current government of New Democracy, but also of those governments that have spent all these years talking about safe start of school year every year, while such conditions have arisen and there are places like this, of course - if possible! - training areas. Are you asking me, Minister, what are you going to do to make the Special Training Laboratory in Cordelio immediately a temporary solution to this problem? What will be done, so that the procedures for building up modern teaching courses which meet the needs of pupils and teachers under the sole responsibility of the State without PPPs can proceed immediately? And what will be done to provide with state funding all the equipment necessary for the operation of the school? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u62	The question, as I announced at the beginning of the meeting, will be answered by the Minister of Interior, Mr. Theodoros Lebanon. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Stoltides, I can assure you, first of all, that this government attaches particular importance to the area of special education. This is why the recruitments of four and a half thousands of people, teachers in the structures of Special Education for the first time after many years, are being planned and planned for school accommodation in general and for special education, but also for the other educational units of primary and secondary education, as well as for preschool education. I'll start answering your questions from the school cleanliness. What I can tell you is that this government for the first time after ten years has transferred responsibility for the cleanliness of school units to the municipalities. Contracts are no longer project contracts, but fixed-term contracts, which increased state funding from EUR 51 million to EUR 84 million, thus by EUR 33 million above. Municipalities were given the opportunity for the parttime staff authorized to employ them in order to become full-time. It was possible to conclude four-month contracts up to 31-12-20, when a contract to be concluded on the eve of the year can reach the end of April and cover most of the school year due to the increased needs of the coronary and will be dealt with and tabled in the bill today, where the possibility of an additional 20% of approved posts may be made with works leases mainly to cover a subject that has, among other things, been raised by the Communist Party of Greece, which concerns the cases of foreign cleaners. So I think that important steps have been taken in the area of cleaning. The second is this part of the Special School in Cordelio. There is indeed a process, which has started since April 2019. As we had been informed by the Municipality of Cordeliou - Evosmos, it became the first competition to rent a roof. The first competition came out barren because a building that had been offered in the tendering procedure did not meet the eligibility requirements. There has been a second competition, where a building has indeed been found, which is appropriate, but there is a need for some conversions and we are now in the process of completing the competitive process to determine the price in order to move forward. Especially for the equipment of school units, as you know, equipment, with the exception of chests and chairs, is the responsibility of the municipalities. The school board shall be prepared to meet all relevant requests with particular sensitivity to the subject of this school. For strands and chairs, it is the “CONTRIAL INFRASTRUCTURES” (CCP.)A.E.L.’ Therefore, a request to replace the equipment must be made. In closing - and it is indicative of how important it is to move the issue of school accommodation - the Ministry of the Interior, in addition to the other co-financed programmes running in the "Antonis Tritsis" programme has issued two invitations, invitation 7 and invitation 10. Invitation 7 shall be granted for the use of a municipality's building of up to EUR 2 million, which shall explicitly indicate the school infrastructure and the building of a school building or its renovation. There is an invitation to the insertion control of schools, which is very important and must run as well. Finally, there is the recruitment of 10, and that is where the municipality can submit a proposal, including a piece of schools. So there are also financial instruments and you may disagree as a party, which I understand as a position, but the Municipality of Cordelia - Evros informs us that especially for a permanent solution to the problem - because the solution now being given will be in a rented building - what it wants is to proceed with the PPP process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. We could refer, Minister, to the shortcomings, to what has been covered and what remains, but now we will stick to this, because this case cannot wait for general planning. You realise that criticism is not personal, but when a matter is raised, the Minister responsible should obviously have all the possible picture of the case. We think, Minister, that anyone who watched this school's images in photos and on the Internet, even the most skeptic, even the most apathetic, would be prevented from this particular situation. We are actually talking about tragedy, which is almost like a joke, about having children with all sorts of disabilities, even with greater and special needs, and about subjecting them to the worst conditions, punishing them almost with the difficulty of access even in the area of education, which is not only to ease their problems, but rather to subject them to torture. Because that is exactly what is happening in this case. It cannot be so much progressed by science, by studying and having scientists specialists who can raise the quality and perspective of these children's lives, by alleviating their parents from the great difficulty they face as well from social exclusion, and by treating all, children with disabilities, teachers and parents with medieval methods, medieval conditions and medieval infrastructure in the midst of pandemic, without prefabrication and clean air, with danger even for victims according to fire and fire, falling into their heads. The question is, though, who gave your own government and the previous governments - because it is timely, it is seen from the reference - that the right to treat these children as inferior or unnecessary exist and to remove from teachers the opportunity to do their duty. This is essentially the case - we think it is words that characterise the case as slightly as possible - a disgrace that has to be changed here and now and without delay, to remove all those obstacles, whether bureaucraticly or possibly interests - in order to resolve the issue. And we say that instead of spending so much money on the media parrots to slander the student movement, instead of spending so much time in the media to swear and characterize as "monkeys", "snakes", "snakes", "snakes", "bads" - forgive me for the expressions, but they are by the mouth of government officials - the struggling students, see with the money of taxpayers, parents, teachers - because that is what you manage - how to satisfy their own needs and not fill the chests of parasites in the economy and society, i.e. business groups. We believe, Minister, that this shame over children with disabilities and disabilities must be brought to an end today. It's an insult to children, teachers, parents. It is an insult, in fact, to the same society and of course we will insist until it is resolved. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u66	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I've seen it, and with the questions you've asked, too. I've seen this and I'll be in touch with the Mayor of Cordeliou-House. If anything on the part of the Ministry can be done to speed up, even legislatively, if there is a problem, we are willing to do so, so that we can see with great sensitivity this particular issue. I cannot understand what interest - I am frankly speaking to you - as great as it is, it could deprive children of a suitable place for education. We have passed - and it is indicative of the mood we had as a Ministry to facilitate the issue of school accommodation on the occasion of two-year-old compulsory pre-school education, i.e. four-year-olds and five-year-olds who go to kindergarten - a regulation which enabled them to rent rooms, etc. He went to use this possibility too, but because it was for two years this procedure decided that he had to go according to the normal classic process. In any case, however, we will also follow the matter on our part. We want a solution. We all need to understand - and I think there is agreement, regardless of ideological colours - that students, and especially the particular category of pupils, should enjoy at least a satisfactory level of everyday life in terms of their school. I am also committed to coming back to life as soon as we have a younger one. I would ask you, if you find any further delay, to inform me, to see how we can solve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2020-10-07-S1-commons.u69	With the consent of this House at 10.41' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 8 October 2020 at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
